ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9536	Ladies and gentlemen, honorable polkas, please put your cards on. Take your seats. I am opening the 6th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I welcome you once again and inform you that the absence from today's session was justified by Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović and that Mr. Lagumdžija announced a delay. The draft agenda for today's session you got earlier. Material, too, except for one small piece that you've got now on the tables. I'd like to inform you that over the past week, during this week, all the committees in charge have been seated and I think you've received timely opinions and reports from these committees on the materials that are subject to today's debate. I am opening a debate on the agenda for the 6th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go, Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9537	I would like to suggest that the agenda of today's session be complemented by another item on the agenda, according to the esteemed chairman, honourable fellow MPs, on the basis of Article 65, House 1 of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. I propose that this item of the agenda bear the name of the Council of Ministers' Information on increasing the diaries and other competences in BiH institutions. We are all aware of the particularly difficult socio-economic situation throughout the country. Over half a million people are unemployed. Pensioners live on the edge of existence. A large number of workers are on hold, 684 thousand people live in poverty, 153,000 BiH citizens do not have enough income for minimum food needs either. In this situation, I believe, we from the SDP Club believe that an unwarranted increase from 30 KM to 50 KM, and we believe that all the cost of salaries and fees for employees in BiH institutions cannot exceed the amount of 2006. That's what we're looking for before because we still don't have any economic policy in BiH. Bosnia and Herzegovina has no development strategy, neither short-term nor medium-term. The only thing we seem to have is an increase in jurisdiction. I think it's not good at 2 at this time to work and I suggest, therefore, that this item of the agenda be placed today in the agenda of the 6th session of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9538	Thank you very much. Here's a suggestion. Here you go. If there are no more proposals, then, I conclude the debate on the agenda and I agree that we have one initiative, or a proposal to supplement the agenda of today's 6th session, and I suggest that we first declare ourselves, of course, on this initiative. So, MP Denis Bećirović, on behalf of the SDP Club, proposes to include a agenda item at today's session; - Information from the Council of Ministers on increasing the diaries and other belongings in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please prepare to vote on this proposal. Vote now. For 16, 14, he doesn't have an entity majority. So, the alignment. So, there will be a co-ordination later and you will be informed. Thank you. It is up to me to establish the agenda of today's 6th session of the House of Representatives. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2007 (first reading), 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act (first reading), 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Market Surveillance Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Election Law – Proposer: Central Election Commission of BiH (first reading), 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act with the Commission Report on Finance and Budget (Proposer of the Law: Member Momčilo Novaković), 8. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH with the Constitutional Commission Report (Proposer of the Law: MP Momčilo Novaković), 9. Remzija Kadrić's request for an examination of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure, 10. The request of MP Mehmed Suljkanović to consider the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure, 3 11. Consideration of the SDS Club initiative for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers through the resolution of Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj, 12. Report on the participation of the Armed Forces, police and civil servants of BiH in peace support operations for the period from 1.3.2006 to 31.8.2006. (sufficient: the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers), 13. Decision extending the mandate of the BiH Armed Forces Unit for the destruction of unexploded killings (NUS) in peace-support operations Iraq Freedom (resumer: BiH Presidency), 14. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 1.3.2006 to 31.1.2007, 15. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the 2005 revision: - BiH State Service Agency, - BiH Foreign Investment Promotion Agency, - BiH Agency for Labour and Employment, - BiH Statistics Agency, - BiH State Investigation and Protection Agency, - BiH Central Bank, - BiH Civil Aviation Directorate, - BiH Civil Aviation Directorate, - Directorate for European Integration, - Directorate for Implementation of the CIPS Project, - State Investigation and Protection Agency, - State Border Services, - BiH Return Fund, - BiH Council of Ministers General Secretariat, - BiH Human Rights Institution, - BiH Institute for Accrediting, - BiH Institute for Standards, Measurement and Intellectual Property, - BiH Competition Council, - BiH Civil Affairs Ministry, - - BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, - BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, 16. Review of the candidate-ranking list for the selection of the auditor-general and vice-general auditor (Commission proposal for the selection of the auditor-general and vice-general), 17. Selection of delegations from the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to: (a) the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, (b) the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation (OSCE), (c) the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union, (d) the Central European Initiative (CEI) and (e) NATO. So it's the agenda of today's 6th session. I have a need for two things in some way to inform you and possibly make a deal. 4 So the first thing is that we as a College have a duty at 3:00 today to meet with the prime minister of Croatia who is visiting BiH. So we have a variant to work up to, say, half three and then take a break to half four without taking these breaks around 12-1, so we can use the time rationally. I hope you can make it to one half three. And the other thing is, depending on, uh, the time we spend on parliamentary questions and answers. The finance minister, Mr. Vrankić, asked me, given that he has obligations, too, regarding the visit of Prime Minister Sanader, i.e. he participates in talks with Mr. Sanader, that he can only be here on behalf of the Council of Ministers, so to speak about the point of the agenda relating to Budget, so he asked me, of course, if you agree, and we need the minister to address and be there for us, so to say that he gives answers to the questions, that this item of the agenda may be replaced by this one that comes behind it. But here, we'll see how the time, how we'll use the time. But here, I'm opening it as a possibility. Thank you for your attention. Moving to point one. So you've received answers to some parliamentary questions. Oh, I'm sorry. So we have Ad.1. Minutes from the 5th session of the House of Representatives I'm opening a debate on the record. Any objections to the record of the 5th session of the House of Representatives? Here you go, thank you. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to vote on the record. Vote now. I agree that we adopted the record from the 5th session of the House of Representatives unanimously. Moving to point 2. Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9541	Satisfied and thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9542	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Mr. Živković needs to comment on the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9543	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given that I have received the answer, I thank Minister Sven for answering my parliamentary question. I will not take colleagues' time to ask new parliamentary questions now, but I will take advantage of the possibility when discussing the SDA initiative and that is the point of the agenda today, to explain this question and perhaps make further comments on this, so I would ask, if I have already come out for a pay phone, to ask a new parliamentary question, if it is not a problem. Very short.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9544	It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9545	So in BiH, back 10 years ago, anti-corruption initiatives have often been launched, but so far, as we know, they have been very often infamous. Let me just remind you that it's still the Council of Europe in '98. worked on the draft of the corruption and money laundering bill, that the OHR was '99. In 2000-2001, the Council of Ministers adopted an anti-korupcijski and Action Plan from which, frankly speaking, BiH citizens and themselves have not seen any positive effects and, currently, the BiH Ministry of Security has taken over the task of developing a special strategy to fight corruption and organised crime in 2006-2009. As you can see, in the order of these activities, there may be no mention of the organ that should have been included most in this, which is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and perhaps is one of the reasons why these activities came with, or did not bear fruit. I don't think those who may have the most problems with crime and corruption can make an adequate plan, nor can they adequately monitor that same plan, so my question is addressed to the Ministry of Security and Speaks; - How far has it come in this business so far and does the Ministry of Security intend to include the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in these activities? Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9546	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Here you are, Mr. Denis Bećirović, a business intervention. Isn't that right, Denise? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9547	Yeah. Here, not wanting to spoil it, is it, during the session, but, here, let's take it as a well-intentioned suggestion. According to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Article 153, Article 3, I think it would be good for us to be informed in the future, at least, this, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, of the exact questions to which it is not answered. So, as it is proposed to the Rules of Procedure. And one more thing, here, but another session, we're not in a position to get answers to the questions asked. If, then, today, we can also send a message to the Council of Ministers, respect the dignity of this House and provide us with answers within the deadlines prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So my intervention is only in so much, with a proposal that we really get this issue serious from the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9548	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. As for the first suggestion, or intervention, it will be accepted. I'm from rationality just, uh, read the names of the MPs who got the answer. I haven't read the questions, etc. So, I accept suggestion as well-intentioned. And as far as answering parliamentary questions are concerned, it is one long-standing practice of ignoring, practically, issues. Of course, we'll do everything we can to get that thing serious. Here, people, one part of the Council of Ministers is sitting, I hope they heard this but, here, let's move on. So, if there are no other interventions, let's move on to parliamentary matters. Here you go, Mr. Ahmetović, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9549	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, colleagues, my parliamentary question concerns the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the CIPS project in BiH. So, please provide me with a report on the work, all the reports that have been made and published so far and especially the financial report, the tender documentation and the way in which the CIPS deal is concluded with? Then, the number and status of employees and the national structure, how many civil servants, how many labor contracts and contracts? How much money is allocated to renting rooms, where and who? What projects are currently under way, is 7 a plan and a work programme for 2007? If there is, I'd like to ask for a delivery to the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9550	Thank you very much, Mr Ahmetović. Mrs. Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9551	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we know that today in our country we are hiring, i.e. we are receiving a high delegation from the Republic of Croatia and I have one parliamentary question from where I come from, that is Krajina, meaning the municipalities of Novi Grad, Kostanica and Kozarska Dubica. We know that an interstate border agreement was signed here in Sarajevo in 1999 and probably most of you, following the media, know that it has raised a number of issues open, especially for the area where I come from. I also know that we have two areas with the Republic of Croatia, i.e. two border lines, which are not enough, according to us, agreed. This is the demarcation in the area of the Una River and the demarcation around Neum and the exits to the sea. I must tell you that the border, in these municipalities from which I come, is from Sela Ivanjska to the mouth of the Una in Sava, crosses 19 times Una from one side or the other. You are very often aware yourself of the fact that such a defined border is causing major problems, that I am not talking about the state of BiH and its credibility, but about citizens who, on the one hand or the other, have a country and cannot normally process it. Also, citizens are under the impression that the BiH state has not done enough, or has not engaged enough to ensure that these negotiations are properly brought to an end and that citizens are satisfied with the BiH institutions' efforts on the issue. We also think, so it wasn't even a proper team and it wasn't at all interested in, especially this part down in the Krajina, the demarcation. And with that, I'm going to ask one question and, of course, I'm going to join the colleagues who said before, we don't get answers to these questions and then I don't see the point of asking if we don't get them. And my question concerns the Council of Ministers of BiH, and it says; - What does the Council of Ministers and the competent ministries plan to undertake to initiate and resolve the border issue in the valley of the Una, especially in terms of normal functioning of this area, means, above all, the normal functioning of citizens who cannot cross the border and process their country? Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9552	Thank you. Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9553	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have today a parliamentary initiative that, in accordance with Article 8. I submit the Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives, which is an initiative for the establishment of a parliamentary commission to visit Zenica's Penitentiary, with the task of talking to the staff and prisoners of this institution in order to gain insight into the conditions of life and work of the prisoners, and the degree of compliance with the applicable legal rules in this criminal and correctional institution. A brief explanation, in the last three months, as an MP of this House, I have received two applications for the reference of this initiative to the Parliamentary Assembly, which are definitely signed with more than 10 signatures of prisoners and staff of the Zenica Penal and Correction Service. The application lists various forms of discrimination against prisoners, the denial of rights, the promotion of religious radicalism, and the open fear of your own life. By checking allegations and requests, through my own research between staff and inmates of the Institute, I have come to the realization that there are grounds for such claims and that there is a great impact on the status and position of some prisoners in the Criminal and Correction Institute have various criminal and political lobbies. Applications also state that, on several occasions, the Zenica Penalty-Agreement Office visited parliamentary delegations, but that talks with prisoners were cut out by the Office, using similar prisoners who were otherwise privileged and regular users of certain benefits to talk. I propose that in the usual parliamentary procedure, a parliamentary committee of 3 or 5 members who would visit the Zenica Penitentiary, speak with the Utvar and the prisoners, take note of the foundingness of this claim and inform this house. If such an initiative is accepted, I propose that one of the members of the parliamentary committee be one of the MPs of the National Club Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9554	Here, deliver the initiative to the College for further proceedings. So, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9555	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, we are all witnessing the latest days of not a small scandal at the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is the following, on March 21st of this year, Republika Srpska's Special Prosecutorate, said that Predrag Domazetović, 31st, of pasti, employed by the Foreign Ministry as the first consular worker of the BiH Embassy in Berlin, was arrested on suspicion that he belonged to a group that organised and committed the murder of Srđan Đurić of Pal on February 07th of this year. Of course, it doesn't occur to me to interfere with the work of investigative and judicial authorities, or 9 to accuse or condemn anyone. But with the right of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I ask the question: Who is Mr Sven Alkalaj, acting as Minister, found everything working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, in bh. diplomacy? It is certain that the responsibility of the people who led this ministry in the past because I wonder how it was possible for Predrag Domazetović, now 31 years old, to be employed in the ministry since 1990, so at the age of only 23 and later in diplomacy and what references the gentleman mentioned met when we know that he was at the employment offices in BiH and science doctors. The answer is likely in the next fact that Predrag Domazetović's mother, Rank Domazetović, is employed by the same ministry and is currently located at the embassy in Bulgaria. So, I am keenly interested in having the foreign ministry answer me a parliamentary question from which you will clearly be able to see who he is and when he hired all his children, aunts, aunts and family, godfathers and friends in very responsible places in bh. diplomacy. So, I don't want to caricate and disrupt the integrity of this high house, but for all my fellow MPs, I'm asking a rewarding question that lasts until the end of this session, to answer me, "What are the two ambassadors from the Palace?" Because here every child knows the ambassador of the United States, England, etc., and we ourselves don't know who represents us. It's a reward question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9556	Is that another question?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9557	Yeah, yeah. And now I'm asking a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9558	That's the third question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9559	The prize question for us here, we don't know who represents us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9560	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9561	And now it's parliamentary. In accordance with Article 155. Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives at the 6th session of the House of Representatives held on 29 March this year, I would like you to submit to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Sven Alkalaj: Please, in writing a list of all employees in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as at the embassies and diplomatic consular offices of BiH, in writing: 1. About the national structure of employees and elected diplomats; 2. On places of work in embassies and DKPs in all countries where BiH has its own embassies and DKPs; 10 3. The year of which these persons work at the Foreign Ministry, i.e. in bh. diplomacy; 4. Age structure and professional equipment for all those persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9562	Thank you. Mr. Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9563	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask certain questions that are current, although we also have today's Budget Law in BiH institutions for the year on the agenda. I want to take advantage of the possibility that through the parliamentary question, estimating that there will probably not be an opportunity to get an answer through the budget debate. Therefore, the Budget Law of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2006 has spent 288m to service external debt, and approximately the same amount has been planned for 2007 and the more accurate amount of 263m. In a tabular picture of the BiH government's collection plan, by lenders: for external debt service in 2007 - Table No. 2a provide data on creditors and payment obligations for 2007. However, the overall commitment of BiH is not shown anywhere in the budget, meaning the overall obligation of BiH on foreign debt. Also presented in Tables 1b and 2b a detailed payment plan for BiH's 2007 commitments, which includes the name of the project besides the lender. But with the name of the project, there is little to conclude and know about the project. I am interested and ask for answers to questions: What are the total obligations of BiH on external debt? What projects are funded, a description of the projects and who are the end-users of the loan? I'm looking at the Rules of Procedure – it doesn't say anywhere that there's only one question or I don't know, so I'm taking the opportunity to ask two more questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9565	It also refers to, it is related to today's Budget Law. Through a table review of employees in 2006 can be seen and reception dynamics for 2007 have been presented in BiH institutions. The table shows that 21 003 employees were employed in BiH institutions from 30.06.2006 and that in the second half of 2006 and 2007 the number plans to be increased to 21,861 employees. Taking into account the fact that in 2007 defence reform, the number of employees decreased by 1,658 there is evidence that new 2.516 employees will be employed in BiH institutions within 18 months. I ask the question of the College and the Council of Ministers: What is being done and what will be done to stop this practice, since we have taken the obligation and this country also needs public administration reform – reduction rather than increasing the administration's administration and reducing public spending? 11 And the next question I would like to ask very briefly. Coming to the session, it was likely the others had a chance to see that we had to look for a place to park, or sent from security to park outside the space provided for the MPs. I really want and appreciate that it is also necessary to protect the dignity of the highest home - the House of Representatives that these things, on the grounds of security, that because of the arrival of a certain delegation we cannot approach the building of our cars as MPs. I would like to ask the question: Whether there are regulations regarding the arrival of MPs to the House of Representatives, means, especially when the meetings, which define, means the relations between the arrival of delegations and the match when the meetings are with MPs and if there is no one who makes the decision that MPs cannot approach home, because, however, this is the highest body of government in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9566	Thank you, Mr. Nanić. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9567	I thank you, distinguished members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, media, I will, let me launch three initiatives. The first initiative on behalf of the Joint Initiative on behalf of the Party for BiH and the SDA Club with the following content. Respecting the resolution adopted by the Srebrenica Municipality Assembly on 24 March 2007, as an expression of the political will and commitment of the Council of the Municipality of Srebrenica, and following the ruling of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which established the execution of genocide, we launch the following initiative: To change the BiH Constitution and pass laws on the special status of the area from which victims of genocide were committed in Srebrenica. Signing the presidents of SDA's clubs and the president of the Party's MPs' Club for BiH. Another initiative we're launching. The Party for BiH MPs' club, respecting the International Court of Justice's ruling in The Hague and in view of the obligations arising from it, we support BiH institutions. We are launching an initiative to provide an official translation of the International Court of Justice's ruling in The Hague and to deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and other state institutions for further proceedings. It's the third initiative. Respecting the practice of the United Nations to mark important events with special activities and draw the attention of the world's public to mankind's problems, we are launching an initiative to launch an initiative in the United Nations to mark July 11th as the day of Srebrenica, through the competent institutions in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9568	Thank you. Deliver to the College for further proceedings. Mr. Bešlagić. We have more reports, Mr. Ivanković. Please, about the application, we agreed that in time we'd all sign up for schedules. So, here, Mr. Bećirović and Mrs. Alajbegović, Mr. Zorić later applied. Are there any other candidates for parliamentary matters? No, I'm closing the log-in list. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9569	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, I have two questions. First question. Getting an ISO certificate is now a years-long practice at the site of a new level of government in BiH municipalities. The compliance with this standard is controlled every year by authorised audit houses, making the municipalities that have met the ISO standard have the right to keep this standard. Question: Is the ISO standard for the work of the BiH Council of Ministers established and if it is not when it will be established? The second question is: Last year, and here we have one example, this assembly asked the Council of Ministers to declare the dislocation of the headquarters of new institutions that has never been done before, and thus the delay and application of many passed laws. One example is today's item on the agenda Report on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Market Control Act, where only because of this, the location, this law has been delayed since September of last year until today. Therefore, the question: When will the Council of Ministers come out with a proposal for the headquarters of new institutions in BiH cities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9570	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9571	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, My question is short and simple. I'd have one agent material for the budget, if it could be divided now, by three pages of material.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9572	We got your one material from a few hundred pages and we gave it to the club presidents, and there's no problem, you can, as a representative, give it to the MPs, but come on, don't do it now, we'll try to break someone anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9573	Here, before the budget itself because it's good to get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9574	When the time comes, I'll make sure the MPs get it. Thank you, Mr. Ivanković. Mr. Genjac. halide, you signed up, I see here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9575	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9576	Did you sign up, I see it here. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9577	No, no, it's a mistake, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9578	Thank you. Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9579	I have one parliamentary question. I ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers. Namely, an unfavourable business environment and numerous administrative barriers in BiH make it difficult to develop the private sector and small and medium-sized enterprises. The company's registration is a long, expensive and non-transparent process. The burden of administrative conditions and costs to be borne by small and medium-sized enterprises is a significant issue that must be addressed in order to support the formation of new businesses. The question is: What exactly in the first year of your term are you planning to do in coordination with entity governments, with the aim of rationalising and simplifying administrative procedures and processes, and reducing the costs of registering companies?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9580	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Mrs. Alajbegović. And we still have Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9581	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two very short questions. The first question is referred to the Institute of Standardisation: Has there been any change in the standards for the calculation of the rent for building land and the management of the infrastructure for attic apartments? If it is when and how? Since the current calculation was made according to the standards of the 1965 JUS, and attic apartments have cuts and all the squares of the apartment are not of the same quality, and in this sense a correction of the amount of rent for building land and infrastructure planning was required. The second question is the BiH Credit Institute. If it is possible to provide me with a work report during 2006 as well as a work plan for the Institute for 2007, given the fact that accreditation is something that is an integral part of life in today's world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9582	Thank you. And Mr. Zorić. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9583	I welcome all those present, 14 I have one, in fact, one initiative that the parliamentary clubs of the Parliamentary House of BiH propose changes in the memberships of the committees, so that there will be more women in the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9584	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9585	If they know, uh, there's only one woman in the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9586	I guess they know but they don't get upset. But, here, you deliver and we'll, uh, we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9587	This, unfortunately, only applies to two clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9588	You deliver, and we'll act as the College. Thank you very much. In this way, we have exhausted this item of the agenda and I will take myself as a right, as I have announced, since, that Mr. Vrankić is still officially busy, I suggest that point 3, so we skip and move on to point four, so. Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act (first reading) The proposal for this law has been in the process since 25 August 2006. The motion for a procedure under Rule 104 of the previous Rules of Procedure was adopted at the 84th session of the previous meeting. On 27 February, the Constitutional Commission delivered an opinion on the validity of the constitutional legal basis and on the consistency of the proposal for a law with the Constitution. The committee responsible is also the Constitutional Commission. We received a report from the committee in charge on March 23rd. You have seen reports that the Commission has adopted one amendment. In the plenary phase, we have no amendments, so we are in the first reading. We are considering the proposal of this law in the old Rules of Procedure. I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act in the first reading. Here you go. Thank you. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to plead. Vote, vote now. I find that with 30 votes for, 3 abstentions, without prejudice, the draft law amending and supplementing the Central Record and Data Exchange Act was adopted in the first reading. 15 Thank you. Let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9590	Who's in favor of moving on to another reading?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9591	Well, I don't know, uh, no initiative, etc. I tried those things twice and they didn't go. But here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9592	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think that this is where the conditions for us to enter into this law and in the second reading are because it is a procedure prescribed by the previous 2000 Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Commission has done its part of the job. She has done, therefore, her job as the Commission responsible and, as you have said correctly, has adopted one amendment and there are no new amendments. So it's about an indisputable situation. I think it would be a shame to miss today's chance, not to pass this law, to burden these supplies we have in Parliament with unresolved issues. So my proposal is to make a statement about the law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9593	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. So, I think we can support this initiative. I suggest we first state whether we are ready to vote on this law and in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now, who is in favour, therefore, who is in favour of today's vote in the second reading of the Law, amendments and additions to the Central Record Act. Who is it? Vote now. With 22 votes for, without against, one abstention, there may have been no votes registered, but I think we have a majority to vote on in the second reading. Please prepare to vote on the law in the second reading. Vote now. So, I find that with 32 votes for, without against and 3 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act and in the second reading. We're going to point five. Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Market Surveillance Act So this law was laid down in the procedure last year, therefore, more precisely on August 31st. The applicant's request was according to procedure 104. It's adopted. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 27 February this year, found that there was a valid constitutional basis. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs is in charge, and you received a report from the committee in charge this morning on the benches. You saw that there were no amendments either in the commission phase, nor in the plenary room. The Commission unanimously supported the proposal for a law in the proposed text and concluded that it is necessary to adopt the law. So, I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law supplementing the Market Oversight Act in BiH in the first reading. Here you go. I'm concluding the debate, or I'm saying there's no record of a hearing. Please prepare to vote in the first reading of the law, on the draft law supplementing the Law on Market Control in BiH. Vote now. With 27 votes for, without prejudice, 3 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, we find that we adopted a proposal for a law supplementing the Market Surveillance Act in the first reading. I dare say, uh, the need to apply, I dare suggest that we say whether we are ready to vote today on this law and in the second reading. Please be, if it's anything else, Azra, or is it the same? All right, please prepare for the vote. Vote now, we vote who's in favour of, uh, pleading on this law in a second reading, now. With 30 votes for, without against, 2 abstentions, the enough entity majority we have decided to vote today in a second reading on the draft law supplementing the Law on Market Oversight in BiH Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. With 32 votes for, without prejudice, with 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority, we adopted the Bill on the Completion of the Law on Market Oversight in BiH and in the second reading. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the BiH Election Law – Proposer: Central Election Commission of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9596	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So it's a law that has two outstanding issues to address for ambition in BiH's electoral procedures. The first question, as far as the situation is concerned, concerns the situation we had after these elections. And this is the situation where the compensation list does not contain a sufficient number of names, and the political party has more mandates than it has names on the compensation list and solves the situation in a way that allows the political party to supplement that candidate list within a certain period. And that question, of course, needs to be resolved in a way to accept what the Central Election Commission has proposed. That is also proposed by the Constitutional Commission. The second issue is a very important issue in BiH that needs to be resolved as soon as possible, with full delegations to the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament. So, the Constitutional Commission, as well as the Election Commission, is in the view that it is necessary to settle this issue as soon as possible in order for delegations to be filled out by the Constitution of the planned number of delegates, therefore, all delegations. We know this isn't a word in this case right now. The Constitutional Commission is, the Election Commission has proposed one solution, but the Federation Constitution has not been amended by now. This solution requires a change to the FBiH Constitution. We asked the Election Commission to urgently refer such a request to the Federation of BiH Parliament. You received a letter from the Central Election Commission yesterday and you got a position on all this. I suggest we pass the law today in our first reading. Because you have a report from the Constitutional Commission only on principles. And then the Constitutional Commission will hold a debate in the second round, and only then can we discuss the law here in the second reading. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9597	Thank you to the President of the Constitutional Commission, his information and explanation was absolutely useful. I totally agree that we today, practically, and we can't go in, uh, a statement in the second reading. So please prepare to vote on, I apologize, Mr. Novaković, I haven't seen you, please. Mr. Novaković. Did you, too, Mr. Erić? Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9598	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9599	It's okay, I didn't notice you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9600	Maybe I'm a little late. I haven't been here the whole time. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9601	It's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9602	It's only now that I've been informed by my colleagues that it's the Law of Amendment to the Law of Election Law. I must say that, in my deep conviction, this law does not, in principle, reflect the principles of the BiH Election Law. In fact, I'm going to say on a very short example. When filling out the number of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with representatives of the Croatian people, it was the Serbian Democratic Party that was to give representatives of the Croatian people. Since there were no representatives of the Croatian people on the list, the next party was the Party of Democratic Progress, which was on the list of representatives of the Croatian people, it completed. Here, a whole other principle is proposed, that someone who is not on the list, fill out the list and then the one on the updated list be selected. So two different criteria for two similar cases. I believe that the Election Commission must respect the same principle on all and in all members. So, if the principle is that lists can be supplemented later, and even amend the rules after the election, and we know well that practice says that six months or after the election is scheduled there is no change in the legal rules in this area. But even if we let, here, do it after the election, then it's impossible, it doesn't apply to other cases. It is much easier to respect the practice and principles that have already been applied somewhere. Which means that in this case, of course, we'll do it in an amendment once they're amended, in this case the principle would be that, since there's no one there, the next party on the scale should give this candidate. So, it's about principle, I'm not asking, of course, to discuss principles today, I'm not asking for someone to explain to me now that it's not like this or it is like this. The Central Election Commission doesn't have, I don't know if there's anyone here, maybe they can explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9603	Unfortunately, there isn't. Unfortunately, there isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9604	As a promoter, why did they propose a derogation from the usual principle used in the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9605	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Džaferović, is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9606	Just one little clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9607	An explanation?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9608	Yeah. Well, well, well, you can call it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9609	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9610	I mean, there's no need to replicate my colleague Novaković. He's a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and the man didn't say anything he didn't say on the Constitutional Commission. But we unanimously, therefore, supported the principles at the Commission's session. We discussed, among other things, this issue and the essence of my reporting was, this previous report, to explain that we and these things, when we discussed in the second reading in the Commission, would be discussed. Because there may be better solutions than this solution that are proposed for Article 1 of this Law. I don't want to bother you right now, but you'll have a chance to read about a final solution that will come from both the Election Commission and the Constitutional Commission. That's why I suggest we finish this part of the job, cross that first step, and go towards the final adoption of the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9611	Of course, in any case, we will vote on the law in the first reading, but this has been useful both from Novaković and from you. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9612	Mr. Chairman, not wanting to replicate normally, because this is all true from the Constitutional Commission. But I want an additional appeal that this is a very important question. I'm not sure that the political parties have given him enough attention and that in the next period, so all those who are interested, not to be caught by solutions, have the opportunity now to really participate in this process and to make the best possible proposals because at this point no one is sure what's best because they are, these solutions are currently being found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9613	Surely, Mr. Kalabić, this is an opportunity for all those, therefore, in this second phase to intervene, to make amendments, proposals, initiatives. So, here, this is how I conclude the debate because there are no more reports. Please state the proposal for a law supplementing BiH's electoral law in the first reading. In the first reading. Vote, just a little bit. So, yes, I repeat the technique. 20 So vote now. With 29 votes to go. Three against. 1 abstention and enough entity majority. I agree that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Supplements to the BiH Election Law was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Act on additional value with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget Proposer of the Law, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. The proposal was submitted on 15 May 2006, according to the old Rules of Procedure. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, since 25 August 2006, a valid constitutional basis has been established. The Commission for Finance and Budgets was responsible. We received the Commission's report on 22 February, you received 22 February 2007. You saw that the report was negative, so the commission didn't accept the proposal, the principles of the law. Therefore, we consider the Report and decide on the Report. So, if the report is passed, the law hasn't passed, not to say the law has fallen. If the report is not adopted, the proposal for a law shall be returned, for, it shall be returned to the Commission for further consideration with the determination of the principles and deadline for the submission of a new report. So today we are deciding, considering and deciding on the Commission's Financial and Budget Report. Mr. Sadik Bahtić called. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9615	Well, in front of the Finance and Budget Committee, I would say that we met on the proposal of Parliamentarian Novaković to amend the VAT law, i.e. reduction of tax rates from 17% to 14%. The Commission held a session and a basic motto that led the commission, the task of our commission is to bring, initiate amendments and draft laws that will improve the economic situation in BiH. This law and the opinion of the Management Board or taxation and the director's cabinet, as it would drastically reduce the financial situation in BiH and the Commission, so it did not accept this proposal. If I didn't read now what the negative effects would be on the state of BiH, how much by the Federation, the Brcko District. So at this point, there's no economic reason for this law to be passed. That's it, thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9616	Thank you, Mr. Bahtić, for the additional information. Here you go. Are there any reports? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. So, we are now attending the vote on the report. So, who's, uh, vote, vote, vote, now. Didn't work out, did it? Okay, okay, just one second. ________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, I wait, you see, I turn myself on and wait. All right, all right, Mr. Bešlagić. I'm trying, I'm trying, here we go, uh, so get ready to vote. Vote now. I hope it's gonna be this. So, with 27 votes against,4 against and 5 abstentioned and enough entity majority, the Commission's report was passed and the law did not pass or refuse, not to say it fell. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH with the Constitutional Commission Report
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9619	This Law, or attempt, is therefore to resolve a serious issue quite frankly, and I do not really mean to open a special debate. It is evident that this law is being discussed in the old Rules of Procedure and that no amendments have been tabled until the meeting of the committee responsible. Therefore, no amendments have been submitted to the Law and the Law has not been adopted. I would simply like to ask my colleagues in which country is the problem of the Constitutional Court's work not defined by law? Is there another European country besides BiH where this 22 issue is not regulated? And if it's not a good way to regulate it, what was here, then the amendments could fix it. Obviously, we did not want to engage in this issue, or try to resolve the issue of the Constitutional Court’s functioning in any way. Of course, against this was the Constitutional Court itself, because they solved some of their issues that mattered to them, of existential importance, illegally. Acts, meaning, that of certain Rules of Procedures, Rules, Decisions, etc. And that, therefore, is even more symptomatic, the Constitutional Court, by the grades of many, and even some members of the Constitutional Court, could not so resolve these existential issues. He solved them, of course, because he had no law, and it's obvious that no one needs this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9620	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. These were extra, uh, so to speak, proponent arguments. Here you go. Mr. Džaferović signed up. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9621	My koleginica and colleagues, I propose to accept the Commission's report, a negative report from the Commission. And that way this law is not passed. counterpart Novaković himself said it was an extremely important issue, so I agree with him. It is, I would say, a crucial issue for the functioning of the legislative authority in the BiH state. And I appreciate the ambitions and the right of each of us MPs to pass laws and to address such issues with our proposals. But I think this is a matter in which all BiH institutions must be involved: the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the BiH Parliament. And then pass the Constitutional Court Act of BiH. What is proposed, given the solutions contained, may counterpart Novaković not be angry, I am now expressing my personal opinion, I see this more as a law against the Court of Justice of BiH, the Constitutional Court of BiH, than the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH. First of all, the Law is against the Constitution. His solutions are against the Constitution. The BiH Constitution makes it clear that the procedure for its work will bring the Constitutional Court itself and prescribe a quorum. There is no right for any of us, here in Parliament, or Parliament, or anyone, to prescribe procedures in the work of the Constitutional Court. Because the procedure was prescribed by the BiH Constitution and said it would be decided by the Constitutional Court itself, and otherwise it is in the practice of democratic countries when it comes to the functioning of their constitutional courts. Well, that wouldn't be any big problem if there weren't solutions in the law here that fit, I would say, in an extremely difficult way, the practical functioning of the BiH Legislative Authority in one normal way. The introduction of so many ethnic and entity dams in the Constitution 23 BiH and the ethnic principle in the Constitutional Court's decision is absolutely unacceptable. In addition, the Law provides for such solutions. In addition, the law seeks to address one issue concerning the participation of foreign judges in the BiH Constitutional Court's work. I think, and that is the assessment and the Constitutional Commission of the earlier call, that the time has not yet come for judges of the BiH Constitutional Court before the International Community, so the European Court of Human Rights is leaving BiH. BiH still needs them. And that is why I propose to you, colleagues and colleagues, to adopt the report of this Commission and thus put an ad act in place. And to discuss this issue when we, as usual, discuss changes to the BiH Constitution. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9622	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Just one second. Is it a replica, Mr. Novaković? Mr. Kalabić applied for the discussion and Mr. Novaković applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9623	I said I didn't really want to talk about this much because we've talked about this many times, but some colleagues just won't let me respect what I'm saying. In fact, this is such a crucial question that we won't even solve it. That's what I heard in Mr. Džaferović's first sentence. So it's so important that we leave it, we don't solve it. Secondly, I'm a practice, I've found some basics of this law in BiH practice. The Republika Srpska Constitutional Court has solutions that I have proposed for the BiH Constitutional Court. I would respect Mr Džaferović's position that the SDA Club in the National Assembly has proposed amendments to the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Then it would be principled, I would vote today if this law were to go further, if it were not to be discussed further. But it's a matter of principle or a matter of principle. The issue of foreign judges in the Constitutional Court, I really don't want to comment, because that's what I said with my proposal. But, my dear gentlemen, in no member of this law is the opposite of the Constitution. Not in any of the members. And if it is, what's the opposite? Of course some solutions are not the opposite of the Constitution, but here they may not be identical to the practice of European countries, the Venice Commission said. After what the Venice Commission said, no one in the National Assembly tried to honor it. Then today I would probably make this situation a lot easier for everyone and finally, I said I would support that this law does not go any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9624	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Kalabić came forward for the debate and we have a further reported Mr. Živković. Are there any more interested? Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9625	We'll try very briefly. To clarify first one fact, that the position on this and most of the debate was led in the previous assembly of Parliament, and that probably a new, new council is not familiar. I followed the debate on the issue at the time and that the Constitutional Commission, whose member I am, meant, in the previous session of this most, it was debated. So I use the opportunity to say that, normally, I can't, I can't accept all these attitudes that my colleague Džaferović was talking about. He is probably expressing the commission's position from the previous call and it is nothing controversial. However, we must admit that with the new synergy, the climate has changed in BiH as well. That some of the things we've been up against here are in favor of solving this issue. Taking responsibility from local authorities, the principles we stand for, the inherited things we all acknowledge together that apply only to BiH and not just to any country in the environment, but in some areas of no country in the world, require us to seek a solution in these areas. We have accepted one before in Parliament's session, before last, it seems to me, that, let's say, we have made a move, that all the laws that the High Representative has passed here have been kind of verified, they are the laws of this Parliament, which in the previous term were not acceptable because the arguments were in force, don't touch it, it's the High Representative's law, we still need a High Representative and I don't know either. So we're headed towards this second principle and there's no reason not to go ahead with it by not prejudicing things because the fact that I don't see amendments here is a fact. The fact is, there's no real contribution here, and it wouldn't be today... because this is a really important question. And here everyone has a lot to say, it concerns a very important institution. And I think we should give room, so this issue doesn't close. Instead of simply giving space and having it in the next period, with all respect for everything that is said today, in a way, open a broad debate without prejudice and deadlines and times when we will end it. But I don't think it's the right thing to do with this problem that we're all aware of, that today we're closing it in completely. And wait for the question under what conditions and when someone will reopen it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9626	Well, of course, it won't be closed, there's always the possibility that new initiatives can be launched and that some of the experiences we've come to have are used by now. Here comes Mr., uh, Živković. Here you go, Mr. Živković. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9627	Thank you, chairman, for the background of what my predecessors have spoken about, and that is the fact that this law is important and that BiH is necessary, not entering the content of the proposed law. I would like to suggest that, with regard to this item of the agenda, the Parliamentary Assembly draws a conclusion, in which it is in charge, in accordance with Article 41. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Constitutional Commission under point d, to hold a public debate on the amendments to the BiH Constitution or the draft laws, and to inform the House about the results of the public debate. To open a public debate on the BiH Constitutional Court Act. To make an active contribution to this very important issue. And that in the end, when all the relevant factors in BiH give their opinion on this, this House is considering a law that, as everyone here has said, is necessary for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9628	Thank you. Here you go, sir, here you go, one more time, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9629	I have a need, Mr. Chairman, to give a very brief answer to some of the findings that have been made in the discussions of my colleagues who have spoken after me about this issue. So, I didn't say that this should be an ad act, not to pass the law, I said when I think it's possible to pass the law, and it can be passed after we have implemented adequate changes to the BiH Constitution. That is, therefore, one thing and another, the question is what is it that is in the law contrary to the BiH Constitution? The Constitution, so I am now giving the answer, so the Constitution of BiH in Article 6, paragraph 2, states that most of the members of the Court make up the quorum, and in the indent, b) it is said that most of the votes of all members will adopt their rules of procedure. The court will conduct public debates, and will publicly explain and publish its decisions. And this law tends to regulate procedures in the functioning of the BiH Constitutional Court and that is, of course, against the constitution. If I want to be a formalist, I can state yet another discrepancy with the Constitution of BiH, which is the number of judges of the Constitutional Court, which are written in Article 1a), because there are four members from one entity, two members from another entity, now another number is proposed, therefore, there are no conditions for a serious continuation of the debate, nor as proposed by the vice-president, Mr Živković. The only way today is to adopt the Commission's report, which is negative and thus put an ad act in place, and to address this issue after the amendments to the BiH Constitution have been implemented. That's it. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9630	Thank you. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9631	To be fully understood about this, I suggest that this report be accepted. However, to task the Constitutional Commission to open a public debate on the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH. Nowhere does it say that we can't talk about anything in BiH like we can talk about changes to the BiH Constitution that says that, uh, it hasn't changed at the moment. Not prejudged what will happen to the BiH Constitution, but I think this important issue requires a serious debate that the Constitutional Commission can certainly maintain in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9632	Thank you, Mr. Živković. I'm just two sentences to say, here, excuse me, just one moment, so we have certain initiatives, here, we've already got them today when it comes to changing the Constitution, etc. But, procedurally, we must first declare the Report and complete this work that is before us, and then make clear, for example, the proposal for a conclusion that Mr. Živković, uh, put out here, which, in my opinion, is absolutely not a problem. Here you go, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9633	I just wanted to intervene that my colleague Živković, I suppose, did not bind the adoption, possibly the outcome, so today's vote with the initiative. So let's separate each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9634	Are there any more reported? Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9635	Since, Mr. Chairman, the outcome of the vote on the conclusion for us is to vote on the Commission's report, I would ask the least possible
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9636	Well, Mr. Kalabić, we're serious people, uh, as far as I've noticed, we're about what we've kind of negotiated and spent here. So we have the next situation and here's the opportunity, of course, who thinks differently, etc. We, according to the Rules of Procedure, must make a statement on the Commission's Report. That's one thing. As far as I've seen here, 27, no one has disputed the need to pass a law that regulates certain things about the Constitutional Court, of course, but in accordance with the BiH Constitution. So we can innovate some things, etc. It is obvious that some things in the Constitution, concerning the BiH Constitution, need to be changed eventually. We have today had an initiative to change the Constitution that opens up the possibility that different things, when it comes to the Constitution, are in motion through procedure and public debate, while we would at the same time start to draft a law on the BiH Constitutional Court. And we could conclude today that the Constitutional Commission is in charge of opening the BiH Constitution law process, with the obligation to organise a public debate. Here, that's, uh, the point. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9637	First of all, I have to say, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, I don't support that conclusion, so, Home. Because if you're looking for a compromise on this, then it's not a compromise. Let the Council of Ministers propose a bill and we will open a public debate in accordance with a member of the Rules of Procedure who is here and written. If this law does not consider SNSD such as this, then the law does not consider it necessary to remain alive then some Council of Ministers proposes a law on the Constitutional Court and I will be on the Constitutional Commission to open a public debate. So I won't support the conclusion, because I don't think that conclusion makes any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9638	Thank you. Here, we have a replica, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9639	I don't think this is a question of SNSD, SDS, SDA and the BiH Party, it's the constitutional law of BiH. As for the replica of the Council of Ministers of which you were, let me say, whose members of your old lady were in that Council of Ministers, two months didn't want to be determined by that law at all, as this report says here. The minister of justice that your party has delegated to this Council of Ministers did not want to be determined under the law. So I don't think those insinuations are right. Instead of letting us see how we can come to a very important law that can't be brought to BiH in such an ad hoc way, rather than open a serious debate about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9640	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Is it a replica, Mr. Novaković? Replica, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9641	Well, you see, I made an effort to correct what the Council of Ministers, which I voted for, didn't do, so I proposed this law. I therefore assume that Mr. Živković will now correct the error of this Council of Ministers and, at the next session, propose a law on the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9642	Thank you. Mr. Kalabić. He's giving up? Here, are there any more reported? If there isn't, then I'm closing the argument. First, we declare the report, the Commission report, and then we will make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion Mr. Živković made here. So vote now. We're voting on the report. With 34 votes for, 3 against, 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority. I find that a report by the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH has been adopted and thus this Law has been rejected. We are left to plead on the proposal for a conclusion made by Mr. Živković. Here, I realized it, like this, Mr. Živković: So, in accordance with Article 41. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives position d) are in charge of the Constitutional Legal Commission to open the process of construction, to organise a public debate on the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH. Well, that's why I'm saying, to open the law-making process, so it doesn't limit which text will be used, which experience will be used. So, the Constitutional Commission opens the process of drafting the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH and undertakes to organise a public debate on the law. I think this is correct. It's parallel to any constitutional change. I think this is correct. Yes, I think this is correct. Mr. Novaković, I think here I am formulating a conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9643	Mr. Chairman, article 41 says, "The Constitutional Commission under d) is having a public debate on the amendments to the BiH Constitution or the draft laws, and informs the House about the results of the public debate." We don't have a bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9644	Well, he'll do it. He'll do it. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9645	We lost to this today, so the bill. We just voted to lure any more of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9646	Well, that's why I told her to open the law-making process.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9647	The draft law in the procedure and the Constitutional Commission cannot conduct a debate. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9648	Well, Mr. Novaković, here is the opportunity for you, as a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, to propose to the Constitutional Legal Commission the law, and I have also told it to open up, to the ustavnopravni Law, so please repeat this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Commission to open the process with the obligation to organise a public debate on the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH. I think this is correct, so we don't waste any time. Please, please let us be clear, who is for this kind of conclusion. With 24 votes for, 6 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority. We adopted this conclusion regarding the constitutional law commission's obligations under the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH. Moving to point 9. Ad. Nine. Remzija Kadrić's request for an examination of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Today we declare the procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please vote now. So it's a request for procedure. With 25 votes to 30 10 against and without enough entity majority. The request was not supported, therefore, by the consent. So, the House will be informed, because we'll agree later. Thank you very much. We're going to point 10. Ad. On 10th, it is a request from MP Mehmed Suljkanović to consider the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9651	Gentlemen chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the International Community, NGOs, means of information, dear guests. I would like to say that this proposal makes sense because it is indeed seen that this Law on road safety in BiH has its shortcomings. However, I suggest that we not adopt him today in this proposal and in an urgent procedure for the reason why
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9652	It's a short procedure, it's not an emergency.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9653	Yeah, brief procedure, sorry. For the reason that we have come to some knowledge on the ground and the serious knowledge that this Law needs to undergo some more changes, and here is a very, very urgent or shortened procedure. I suggest we not adopt him today in a procedure like this. So that, in order not to reopen the procedure in a few days and in the next assembly and new amendments to traffic safety laws, it is our support for these changes, but there are other serious changes. So, in this sense, the proposal goes to put him in a regular procedure so that we do not have to discuss the same law in a few days or in a few congregations and make remarks about the change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9654	Yeah, yeah. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9655	I'm also joining this opinion because I haven't read the law. Because I knew today was only a matter of procedure. However, there are major objections from the field to that law that came into force on 01.12. I think last year. And I think that, and I would ask my colleague Suljkanović to go into a regular procedure and we would all help make quality law together, not to make changes and supplement each month or two.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9656	But I don't think there's any big problem here, that even the promoter won't run away from it. However, I would also like to say, and in a shortened procedure, if there is will and efficiency so further, all this can be done. Therefore, the shortened procedure also implies the amendment phase and only deadlines are shortened. But here, it's no problem, Mr. Zorić, I... [[Common discussion]] Of course, of course, I'm just saying it's important to intervene on an up-to-date basis, and in a short procedure, it's all possible. Are there any more, uh, reported? Mr. Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9658	Well, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9659	I'm sorry, but let's hear your opinion, as a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9660	I can accept this regular procedure, and I think that changes and additions should be thoroughly prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9661	All right, all right. Thank you very much. So here we have, uh, and the motionor's position to give up practically requiring him to go into a shortened procedure. This law goes practically into regular procedure. Wait a minute. Because people weren't ready to get along now. You know that, Mr. Džaferović, how it goes. Here you go, ma'am. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Wait a minute. Here you go. There's a call, Azra called. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9663	The Honorable Chairman. We've adopted the agenda. The item of the agenda is: The request of the MPs to consider the draft law under a shortened procedure. I ask you to put it to the vote, if those less familiar with the Rules of Procedure, if this request does not go through, the automaticity of the law goes into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9664	Okay, it's okay, I've been trying to, uh, make no big deal out of anything. Here, it's already opened, here, there's Mr. Živković now, of course, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9665	Wait a minute, I want to warn an esteemed colleague, given the custom he was in this assembly when, when they asked me out, right, from the U.S.A. to have my law that was going into the regular procedure, I accepted it without a vote. If it was one custom here, there's no reason why the promoter said it would go into regular procedure so we don't do it now. I don't think we should make any difference, call on the Rules of Procedure once, and let the other one pass. So the promoter suggested that he could go into regular procedure, I don't see the purpose, and what we've already done, we did the last time to figure ourselves out here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9666	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? If there are no reports, then I find that the promoter has withdrawn the request for a procedure for a reduced procedure. And this law, I find, therefore, the Law of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads to BiH goes into regular procedure. Thank you very much. Moving to point 11. I ask the Council of Ministers, if there are any more here, to try to reach Minister Vrankić, I promised him by 11:15 that I would wait. Here, we have already changed four, five points of the agenda, Mr. Vrankić does not appear. I'm asking Mr. Dugandžić to call him here urgently. So we move to point 11. Ad. 11. A review of the SDS Club's initiative to reconstruct the BiH Council of Ministers through the resolution of Minister Alkalaj. I remind you, on 28 February 2007, the SDS Parliament Club submitted this initiative, in line with the Rules of Procedure. The initiative was delivered, of course, to MPs, the Council of Ministers and the House of Peoples. In accordance with the deadlines prescribed in Article 144. Rules of Procedure, the initiative is put on the agenda. From the Council of Ministers to this day, we have not received any opinion or statement on this initiative. So, Article 146. The rules of procedure say that every proposing has the right to a House session to explain a proposal for a vote of no confidence to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has the right to respond, state its position, after which the debate is opened. Obviously, we don't have the Council of Ministers' position and statements. Okay, here we go. Mr. Kalabić wants a break for 10 minutes. So, break 10 minutes. Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9669	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, we did not quite approve of delaying the arrival of Minister Vrankić, and we also tried this break to contribute slightly to his appearance.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9670	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9671	Really, I'm asking your intervention so we can discuss this point that we skipped.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9672	Well, here, unfortunately, uh, I understand your good intentions, but unfortunately there have been some changes in Prime Minister Sanader's visit protocol and Mr Vrankić's still, according to my 34 information, attends this meeting. And we'll continue, we'll simply proceed with the order we had. So there's a point ahead of us, and we'll go back to the budget when Mr. Vrankić arrives. So it's time for us to do point 11. A review of the SDS Club's initiative to reconstruct the BiH Council of Ministers through the resolution of Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj. I, to say the least, gave you the history of the whole procedure. I now give my word to the motionary, with the re-establishment that we do not have statements from the Council of Ministers which is not binding or impediment to us to plead on the initiative. That's right. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9673	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, honourable ministers, Mr. Alkalaj, of course, I'd like to welcome the others, but they're not here. And it looks like the Council of Ministers is the only thing that matters to Mr. Alkalaj is what's going to happen here today. As you yourself have learned, or as the chairman has said, in accordance with Article 143. Rules of Procedure, February 28th, I submitted or launched an initiative for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers on behalf of the SDS Club. Citing three reasons, and now that I'm not going back into those reasons and those details, it's often been through the media, and even when I submitted the initiative here, they were being debated. It's just to say that all these discussions that were being held afterwards did not convince me that the reasons that I cited when the initiative was launched still do not stand. In fact, there's been a lot of illogical developments. That's right, 27, so the Independent Journal issued a statement by Deputy Minister Ana Trišić Babić, who said, "The minister acted unilaterally, illegally and outside his authority, when he sent a letter to the Serbian Foreign Ministry." So that's what the deputy minister said. Of course, the minister, as we know, said he had, uh, and legal right and authority to send a diplomatic note. Furthermore, the deputy said, BiH's foreign ministry is not responsible for the question of the dual citizenship contract. That there might have been a variant that the agreement should be amended, so it was the Ministry of Civil Affairs, etc. The same memo or the same note was addressed by the Serbian Foreign Ministry, which practically also reported that they were interested, among other things, in not accepting this note, said they were interested in the best neighbourly relations and in co-operation with BiH and its citizens. And in this way, here's some possibility of diplomaticity, so scandal or conflict with our neighbouring country has been avoided. I have to say that another reason that has not respected practice has also remained. 35 But and the third when it comes to blackmailing Parliament, I think that the statements that followed, not only from the minister, but from all of them, therefore, those who commented from this part or this way, went in the direction of a sentence that the minister himself said, that we brought, of course, that you had brought, and not as, that we had passed a law on citizenship we would not have had these problems. On the other hand, all BiH citizens had the right to double citizenship, not just some. In other words, if they don't all, they shouldn't have those who do. Of course, not taking care of Article 3. 2a The Constitution that says: "The entities have the right to make special connections with neighbouring countries", which, of course, implies the consent of this House here. You see, that very law that we were supposed to pass, that is, for which blackmail is such a diplomatic note, this attitude, we didn't even refuse. To make the accident bigger, we refused an emergency procedure and never that law in this house was rejected. And that's not in the debate, and now we've just had this attitude, so that's proof that it's in the debate. Of course, if it's constitutional, it's not constitutional, etc. Now it's a second question. Mr. Halilović, a negotiator in front of Starka for BiH, when it came to constitutional amendments, had the opportunity to act in amendment, meaning, through amendments to the Constitution, it did not work. So, if he didn't have the consent of the founder or if it was something else, I don't know, but the man didn't work. And then all of a sudden, it's like a big problem. I believe that it worked around the Constitution at the time, so that it would be one of the questions on which we would achieve then surely consent, because we all care that all BiH citizens stay in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9674	So there will be opportunities through this law to determine.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9675	Of course, there will be opportunities to discuss this and not only that but also other issues. What is ultimately very interesting is the position of the Council of Ministers. First, in each country, it would be perfectly normal for this point to be found among the first in the agenda of this session today. She is the first one after the tenth, though.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9676	I'm experiencing unfortunate circumstances.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9677	I guess that shows how serious we all took this initiative, or people in the parliamentary majority took this initiative. It also shows the position or failure of the Council of Ministers who did not have the courage to say one way or another. And it's not logical for someone to launch the initiative, and that someone is the club, so the club, one party, to launch the initiative, and the Council of Ministers 36 has no position on the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. How is it possible that the chairman of the Council of Ministers does not say whether it is for reconstruction or not for reconstruction. And if it is why it is and if it isn't why it isn't. And many times in the media, he said how he felt about it. He even reprimanded the minister once and said he'd talk to him when he got back from abroad. And this publicly through the media, man announced a conversation with the minister at his Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers in which he chaired. Whether there was a conversation, I don't know, whether it ended in reprimand or a reduced conduct, too, I don't know. But here, I think, is the least important minister. In the whole story, the minister acted on someone's orders. I am pleased that Mr. Nović has taken Mr. Halilović's decision out of force and thus achieved or allowed no diplomatic problems or problems in relations between the two states. I think he should be told that thanks. I believe the minister himself, that the minister himself fell from his back after that attitude of Mr. Nović, because that's when the dust came down. Or it's not so much on the significance of this diplomatic note anymore. I think the minister has acted in this case as a party. And, in fact, by voting for this initiative, I don't think we're voting against the minister. I think that we are voting against politics, meaning the policy led at this time by the President of the Party for BiH, or by the presidency member Mr Silajdžić. By voting for this initiative, we are voting against the return of BiH for a decade and more. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9678	Take a little time off from talking about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9679	That's the essence of the whole problem. So, I'll be done soon, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9680	So that we don't open up the replica, hold on a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9681	Well, you see, maybe I could use the lines, so, uh, I'll say what, so, what I was now reluctant to say or I didn't want to say. So, I hope there won't be any, if there is, of course. So by voting for this initiative, we vote, in fact, or we raise our voice against one policy. It is terrible if we conclude from this that by accepting Serbia's statehood, Srbin in BiH are no longer BiH citizens. This is the result of this policy. The result of this policy is that in BiH, there may not be a reasonable time for those who want double statehood with Serbia. I, in fact, want to say to this initiative that I'm against it. And it is less important whether today's initiative will be supported or not. I'm convinced he won't. There's enough reason for those who don't support her not to support her. Some of them are in what I said. I hope this initiative and what I said no one will take it personally. Because with the last few sentences, I've tried to transfer the space personally to the space of principle. 37 So, we remain, as a club, at the request of today to declare the trust of Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj, thereby opening up a space for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9682	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, we should now have the Council of Ministers' position, but we do not have it, but it is not an obstacle for us to plead on the initiative. I'll just say two sentences so I don't go out for a pay phone. When it comes to the policy that you've been talking about all along, it's a policy of equal rights, of human equal rights for all of the people of this country, and that's the beginning and end of the policy that we're leading. So, if there is, I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9683	I would like first to remind the BiH SDP club, as well as the appointment of this Council of Ministers' call, was against, not only the appointment of the foreign minister, but the Council of Ministers' complete appeal. Because we made it very clear then that there is no team here, there is no common goal and there is no joint programme. This Council of Ministers obviously wasn't educated for concrete projects and programmes and that we were absolutely right when we spoke. You've already confirmed in the first months of your work. Despite the heavy burden, however, that there is no teamwork, there is no common vision and joint programme and readiness, which is no wonder that the Council of Ministers makes up parties that have diametrically different views and programmes. However, it should also be acknowledged that this Council of Ministers is burdened by some internal, external circumstances which, indeed, this first two months at least, could not have objectively influenced. In such a political environment and atmosphere, the SDS proposal also came to replace one minister in the first 60 days and to reconstruct the Council of Ministers in the first 60 days. Of course, it doesn't occur to me to be the apologist of this Council of Ministers because, therefore, like the entire SDP Club, I voted against this Council of Ministers and now we're even more convinced that we were right when we did it. But also, as a legalist, I respect the parliamentary majority's decision, which educated the coalition, formed power, so that's their right. Today, it is strange, for example, that the SDS does not propose the replacement of the Council of Ministers' mandates or the entire Council of Ministers. However, to put that aside, the SDP as an extremely anti-fascist party, which I want to point out here on purpose now, believes the SDS Club has a formal and political right to launch this today before Parliament. But now I'm making my personal point. The SDS has no moral or human right to launch an initiative at this political moment to replace any minister in the BiH government. The SDS has particularly no moral right to do so today, therefore, to start shifts at the Council of Ministers at 38 moments when there are not 35 days since the International Court of Justice ruled the first time since 1945 and officially ruled that genocide was committed in BiH, in Srebrenica. Which in itself is a terrible and terrible fact for every man and for every people in BiH, regardless of what part of BiH he came from. It was very clear in the verdict that the genocide was committed by the RS Army, and the ruling party at the time was SDS, to which it belonged and represented Mr Novaković of the SDS. The SDS, I have to say, liked who or not, is carrying full responsibility, and it's not human and moral for the SDS to be giving lessons here today. And because of the SDS and its policy, among other things, we are facing one difficult situation today, difficult for every normal man in this country, unrelated, so I repeat, to which people he belonged. We therefore believe that this initiative is a cheap attempt by the SDS and followers of the SDS policy to draw attention from the difficult and terrible fact that the International Court of Justice ruled in Srebrenica that genocide had occurred. The SDS should, out of respect for the victims of genocide, respecting the BiH State, at least remain silent in these months, not destabilising the BiH state. And the SDS, if it wants to remove black spots from its past, should be here and expected by all the peoples and citizens of this country to propose the arrest of Radovan Karadžić, Ratko Mladić and other genocide suspects in Srebrenica. And not to be solemnly lectured here by the entire BiH Parliament and all BiH citizens who, among other things, are faced with situations like we do today in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9684	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9685	Well, I have to say I wasn't here today I wouldn't believe it. Namely, I got the feeling that this is where the SDS is tried, which is bold to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law. So then a colleague said that the court's verdict in The Hague condemned the SDS. I guess it's not an invitation to ban it or it's an invitation to ban it. It's fortunate that the mind in this country is a little bigger than the one we've heard here. My dear colleague, when your club gave the initiative to a previous Council of Ministers meeting, I took it seriously. I guess counting on her coming from a serious party, from serious people. And according to her, he's defined himself the way I've defined myself. I personally requested the discharge of the minister, or resignation of the minister I supported. And I have a moral right here today to seek the discharge of the minister. Whether my reasons are justified or not will define your relationship with this initiative. And that should define your relationship, not the morale of the SDS. The SDS is a parliamentary party. The SDS paid the price of everything you fellows said here, and more. Some others might have to pay, but they didn't. But it's not an SDS thing, it's a matter of the international community and the criteria by which she acted here. In this House and my colleagues, we fight to show this Parliament's dignity, to defend it, and we will continue to do so. I didn't mention SDP in this initiative. And Bog didn't give you to mention them. I didn't mention anyone other than the Party for BiH and I said what I said about the party president, and I'm sure all the members of this party, including these people sitting here, think the same thing. And it wouldn't be good if we all thought the same thing. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9686	How do you know that? How do you know that?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9687	But I'm talking, and if anyone had a moral right, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9688	It's also a replica, and the line's already expired, Momčilo.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9689	If someone had the moral right to replicate me in this way, then they had it, let me finish the sentence, then it was the people of the Party for BiH. And if they did, I wouldn't rephrase it. You see, dear colleague, I assume that when you said SDS and when you said the RS Army, you probably put the Republic of Serbia in there, but you didn't say it. Well, unfortunately for you, and for those who think so, she will be and will be the SDS. And there'll be more of him than you'd want him to have. Also, I'm saying I won't answer any more lines here. Chairman, I expect you, as you warned me, to warn your other colleagues when they talk about the SDS, you didn't do it now, and I resent that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9690	When didn't I do it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9691	When a colleague spoke and I resented it, but no problem, look and it's a matter of standards, criteria, correctness etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9692	There was a discussion in it, a replica of you. Is it, Denis, a replica? Yeah, let's see how many replicas we got? Of course, what if, of course, here, one, two, three, is there any more replicas? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9693	I can tell you that I understand Mr. Novaković, because he is in a position to make justice something that is not possible to justify and regardless of what he was saying, I think this is, however, one failed attempt to replace the thesis. No one here has spoken, so neither have I, if he had been convicted of SDS and I would have invited Mr. Novaković, if he was already correcting, but he's blaming or replicating that he is then quoting exactly what I was saying. However, the fact is that the International Court of Justice has ruled and, among other things, ruled that genocide was committed in Srebrenica and that it was committed by the RS military. And so that's a fact. And I have to make one, in particular, wrong allegation here, when Mr. Novaković says that SDS, that SDS paid the price, I don't think the SDS paid any price, the price for all 40 of what is the product of one destructive policy in BiH paid the victims of genocide, victims of crime in BiH and paid all normal, good people, regardless of whether they are Bošnjak, Hrvat, Srbin or members of other ethnicities in this country. These people suffer from destructive policy, and I repeat, the SDS did not pay nearly the price due to the acts committed in BiH when they were committed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9694	We're in a row, we've got all the replicas, Momčilo. Mr. Novaković, we have before you registered for replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9695	A colleague again of the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9696	Mr. Novaković, did you hear me?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9697	I heard you, but my replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9698	There are three reported replicas, and your replica is on this replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9699	I agree, but it's a replica, my replica has priority over others.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9700	And these are applications, I believe, on your line. All right, then there'll be a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9701	I'm saying, what's a colleague about SDS again? I thought at least he wouldn't now. Look, I'm terrified of what happened in Srebrenica both as a man and as an MP and as a citizen of this country. But I refuse any innuendo that has anything to do with the SDS. Well, that's, I guess that's clear. A colleague tried to get those two back together again. I'm trying to say, as a man, that I'm terrified of it, but that it has nothing to do with the party and that it has nothing to do with me and that it has nothing to do with the replacement of the minister, with the request, in fact, it won't be a shift, it's evident, it's my request. It really doesn't matter, and it doesn't matter the verdict, and this isn't the result of the verdict, I guess this initiative is before the verdict. Now how do we connect that we, with this, wanted to distract ourselves from the verdict, and we, before the verdict was, submitted the initiative. I guess we knew.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9702	We're off the agenda at this replica. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9703	We knew the results of the verdict before, and then we acted a little bit. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9704	Mr. Novaković, we're off the agenda. I'm in debt, I'm asking the real MPs to be very brief and to return to the agenda. Azra Hadžiahmetović, Sadik Bahtić and Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9705	Here I had a need to react.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9706	And Jovičić, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9707	I had a need to react on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, the more the agenda point is to consider an initiative for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. I am surprised that counterpart Novaković reacted to remarks that some of the debates, in today's debate, tried on the SDS as a political party, and in this sense I would like to express the surprise that Mr Novaković, who is the applicant of the initiative, was in line with the law and the Rules of Procedure of this House, among other things, trying to make a statement on this initiative, I am literally reading his quote: "for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers and the replacement of Foreign Ministers" to make a statement on the policy of one political party and its president. I ask you, Mr. Novaković, to be consistent or to change the name of the agenda item or act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law. A statement on the policy of a political party and its president, who is a member of the presidency, was a matter of the BiH electoral process and citizens declared their support for political parties in BiH, including the BiH Party. By the way, I ask the College to return to the agenda, put the initiative to the vote, and that this story, which, unfortunately, was just before when the initiatives, the joint initiatives of the SDA Club and the Srebrenica Party, had not been heard and supported earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9708	Thank you very much. I've been trying to get back to the agenda all along, but I need your help, too. So, I'm asking the applicants to drop out, get back to the agenda point. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9709	Nothing, I have a few words just to say in the context of mentioning that Mr. Alkalaj, the foreign minister, was acting partyically. I think that Minister Alkalaj is the minister of all BiH citizens and that he cannot be elected by eight BiH MPs but has received support from other MPs, meaning... by reference and by expertise, I know that Minister Alkalaj is one of the best ministers to represent the BiH state with dignity. That's it, thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9710	Thank you, Bahtić. Here you go, Mr. Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9711	I would ask Mr. Novaković to not mention these issues that have nothing to do with the truth through the question of SDS and Srebrenica's responsibilities. So they're standing. So it is enough to read the plea statement by Mr Miroslav Deronjić, who was convicted in The Hague tribunal, who is a high-ranking member of the SDS and who was the commissioner of war crimes indictee Radovan Karadžić for Srebrenica in '95. A year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9712	Thank you very much. We no longer have replicas, but unfortunately, Mr. Živković has been waiting for 10 minutes, he applied for the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Živković. Uh, sorry, sorry, sorry. Mr. Jovičić. Who else is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9713	Well, Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9714	Oh, Remzija Kadrić, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9715	Replication to Mr Bećirović's presentation. Indeed, as a man and as a member of the SNSD in this House, I cannot keep my mouth shut and not react to this when he said the SDP was the only anti-fascist party. What are we left? But since Mr Bećirović is the easiest to read, what he thinks between the ranks and what he's saying here, then it's quite clear what he meant about the other parties. Of course, that's not what he said and he'll always say he didn't say. But I know what he meant when he didn't say. Now, that's the problem with Mr. Bećirović. And the other thing, and the other thing, when this story is about the International Court of Justice ruling in The Hague, Mr. Bećirović said -- of course we all know that Srebrenica is in BiH, but it is very important that you add genocides done in BiH and Srebrenica, and then it gets other connotations completely and the International Court of Justice's ruling is interpreted as not standing. So no one in their right mind is going to say no and they're not going to say no to what the International Court of Justice has ruled, but now that I'm not going any further. So, you can't allow here with this kind of thesis and keep talking about how we're the only one, when I say we, I mean them, the multiethnic party, everyone else here is someone else. So there's always something around here that doesn't really stand. So I ask Mr Bećirović, whenever he reports for the discussion, let him know immediately that he will have a replica. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9716	Okay, thank you. That's what you need to talk about. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović. I beg you to slowly bring this to an end, I have no intention of endlessly giving replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9717	That's right, you're the only one doing business.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9718	Here you go, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9719	It's hard to replicate to Mr. Jovičić because you don't know if you'd replicate what you said or what you thought you were going to say, because he knows and what you think and what you're going to say. But I'll be very specific and clear. I didn't say SDP was the only anti-fascist party, and I deliberately said it was anti-fascist to get someone to answer like you did.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9720	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9721	And if you need confirmation, we'll take a break, pull out a stenogram, and you'll see what I've said.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9722	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9723	So I suggest you listen to what they're saying, if you want to replicate someone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9724	Thank you very much. Mr. Remzija Kadrić. There's gonna be a break, so we can take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9725	I'll have a brief, just two replicas to Mr. Novaković's presentation. He said that the party, that SDS had paid the price of its policy. So I declare that the SDS, unfortunately, is not in any part of it, has not paid the price of its policy. Therefore, I agree entirely with what the honourable MP Bećirović said. 44 And it's another replica. He said Halilović, who appeared ahead of the BiH Party on these constitutional amendments. So the Party for BiH and Halilović proposed these amendments when it comes to changes to the law in citizenship. So that part he said.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9726	Me, but not in the process of constitutional change, otherwise. I was there, Mr. Novaković, and there's no need, you weren't, there's no need to tell you what was there. You're wrong, but look, it doesn't matter. We have Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9727	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that this is such an important topic, the topic of the state of the DKP network or the state of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in this way came before us Members, because the fact is that there is a difficult situation and that this is not the thing that happened when the minister arrived, but that in the last few years this difficult and bad situation has certainly been produced. However, in the last two months, it seems to me that this situation has been getting worse and that the current government is having confusion and failure, that these problems in the DKP network have grown, that the incidents every day, more and more of them abroad in connection with officials working in the DKP network, whether officials are engaged under the Labour Treaty, whether they are elected, that we have some things that have just come to light in BiH about the problem of building the Turkish Embassy, that even the inaction that these things are being repaired or that, on the one hand, they are, to be, to say, reduced in volume which in the last few months has increased the matter of inaction. As regards my response, which I set at the 4th session of the House of Representatives, and it is directly related to the decision to inform Serbia of the abolition of the BiH-Serbia dual citizenship agreement, I must say that for me this decision is unilateral and trendy, in particular we have a fact, I will read to you, a little patience, that we are currently in force of the Agreement establishing an interstate council for co-operation between BiH and the SR Yugoslavia, the Agreement between BiH and the Federal Government on Free Trade, the Agreement between BiH and the SR Yugoslavia on Social Insurance and such agreements is more and less, I think somewhere around 40, and only one citizenship agreement has been put out of force, which raises tensions in BiH and I must say, not only the citizens of Serbian nationality, not only those from Republika Srpska. People ignore the fact that there are over 100,000 people from Sandzak in Sarajevo alone and that they are directly affected by such a single decision. The very answer I received disagrees with whose initiative it is, and who then took the initiative to send it to the Serbian Foreign Ministry because a letter from the BiH Foreign Ministry says directly that the foreign ministry wants to note that after the resolution of the Serbian-Montenegro State Community, the bilateral contract did not remain in force. It also assumes responsibility for the agreement itself and the legal consequences that can arise in connection with this problem where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia has rightly stated that the legal argument contained in the BiH Foreign Ministry note stems from wrong legal assumptions. That, let me say, if not an incident, and then certainly certain problems in the co-operation of the two bordering states are at stake. 45 And this discrepancy in the work of the Council of Ministers, more specifically in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, frankly I would not be in the position of the minister for the simple reason that there is a situation in the Council of Ministers, since it is not from the Bosniak people, the ministers of the Bosniak people do not allow him to vote, that he has inherited the state of the DKP network and in the ministry itself a difficult situation, and I am, to say, concerned about the situation that may happen in the future when the rotation occurs in the BiH presidency. I therefore appeal to all those who are leading the policy, foreign policy of BiH, that, let's say, they do not give their statements in London the opportunity for journalists, or anyone else who delivers those statements, or the possibility of misrepresenting important reforms such as police reform, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9728	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? If not, I would like to conclude the debate and ask you to prepare to make a statement on this SDS Club initiative for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers through the resolution of the foreign minister. Please vote now. You're voting on the initiative, whether you're in favour or against the initiative. Mr. Džaferović, I hope I won't be needing it. So with 10 votes for, 19 against, nine abstentions, I find the initiative rejected. Gentlemen, we finally have Mr. Vrankić's presence here. I'm sorry this protocol situation has developed like this. So we're going back to the 3rd session of today's agenda. So it's about, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Bill on Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2007 I'll just remind you that at the last session you received notice of the deadlines set by the College of the House for reviewing the Bill on Budget. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 14 March 2007. The financial and budgetary committee in charge delivered its opinion on 20 March. The commission also delivered a notice on the deadlines for considering and adopting the Budget Law proposal informing us that representatives of the Council of Ministers, at the commission's meeting, indicated the obligation to comply with the provisions of the BiH Finance Act. In short, let me remind you, therefore, it is said there in the law: if we do not bring the budget by 31 March that it will stop financing all BiH institutions. So, in this regard, the commission, our commission found the conclusion and informed the College of this obligation and requested that the deadlines set by the College be changed and, therefore, the commission had, in practice, adjusted itself to the request of the Council of Ministers and it held timely sessions, held this amendment phase and provided, and we practically, this, as a College 46, considered this notice from the Finance and Budget Commission and decided that the Bill on the Budget of the BiH institution is now being considered in both the first and second readings. So that's what I considered necessary to point out. Of course, you have a report from the Finance Commission and the budget from which it is visible, this, that the Budgetary proposal is supported, which shows that some amendments have been adopted, etc., but given the presence of the Finance Minister, I ask on behalf of the promoter, i.e. the processor, Mr Vrankić, to address the MPs with an additional one, so to speak, the arguments, the comments on the Budget Law proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9730	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, fellow ministers, journalists, guests, I welcome you all together, and here I am taking the opportunity to apologize for my commitment this morning because I was in the Council of Ministers delegation and to understand that the point is being a little bit extended so that I could participate in the work. I am obliged to inform you, and you know it, is who is the Proposer of the Budget to Parliament. I didn't get permission from the Presidency, but since it's always been a practice for ministers to do it, here I am here today with you and I want to be at the service as much as I can give further reasons because we are processors of the Budget. Before us is the draft budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2007. On this occasion, I would like to introduce you to the starting points on which the Budget and its most significant characteristics are founded. The initial basis for the draft budget, i.e. the Proposal of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2007, is the following: the provisions of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, the provisions of the Law on Debt and Debt and Guarantees of BiH, the parameters contained in the framework budget of the BiH institution in the period 2007-2009 including, respecting basic macroeconomic projections. The summary comparative overview of the revenue projection in 2007, 2006 was given in Table No. 1 – balance of income by sources and purposes. Total revenue The budget of the BiH institutions in 2007 was planned at 1,013,709,461 mark, representing an increase of 59.1 million marks or 6% compared to the approved 2006 budget and refers to the following: revenue for the financing of BiH institutions of 750.100,000 marks that are higher by 83.6 million marks or 12.5% compared to the 2006 budget; revenue for the service of external debt of 263,609.461 marks which are smaller by 24.5 million marks or 8.5% compared to the 2006 budget. The structure of the source of income for the financing of BiH institutions is as follows: Income from the Single Management Account, indirect taxation of 632.000,000 or 84.25%; Untaxed revenue, as regards taxes, fees, revenues and own activity 68.636,000 or 9.1%); Income from the Central Bank of BiH's income of 20.000,000 marks or 2.6%; 47 Transferred revenue from the previous year of 17.000,000 marks or 2.2%; Other incomes of current support, incomes of control marks and extraordinary revenues of 12.464,000 or 1.6%. The summary assessment of expenditure per economic category is given in Table No. 2. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union, in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation, of the Financial Regulation, of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council, in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. 3. The overall budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2007 was planned at 1,013,709,461 mark, i.e. is equal to the total projected revenue. Of this amount, 263,609,491 marks are planned for the service of external debt and 750,100,000 marks represent the planned expenditures of BiH institutions. The planned expenditures of institutions, meaning no external debt service, in 2007 compared to the approved 2006 budget are higher by 83,610,000 or 12,5%. The main reasons for the rise in the BiH institutions' 2007 budget from 2006 stem from the starting point of setting the framework, the framework budget document for 2007. This is to give priority to building state functions related to meeting the conditions for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, especially in the area of the security, judicial and fiscal sectors. This imposes the formation of new institutions and the transition of jurisdiction from entity to state. Which, in the established, existing BiH institutions, has not been adequately employed, and the Framework Budget document foresees a gradual completion over the next 3 years, thus achieving full capacity for BiH institutions at the end of 2009 according to the existing internal structures adopted. During the findings with the budgetary users carried out at the time of the construction of the BiH Budget, new priorities or new commitments have emerged which were not presented in the construction and adoption of the Framework Budget document, which the Ministry of Finance and Treasury should have taken into account later, which means that they refer to: SIPA 8.200,000 Marks, means the formation of a Department for Physical Insurance of Persons and Objects of Foreign and DKP in BiH, which has so far been carried out by entity MUPs; the Office for Foreign Affairs of 5,32.000, transfer of competence from entity to BiH level; the Institute of Missing Persons 4.500,000 Marks, transfer of the power of the Committee for Missing Persons of Entity; the Office for the Protection of Health of Plants 1,350,000 Marks, transfer of competence from entity to state; the Court and the Prosecutor of BiH 5,500,000 Marks, the Transition of Jurisdiction of the Office of the Office of the Charter of the Charter of Justice of the Legal Persons and the Republic of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of the Republic of Bosnia and of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia will be financed from the Republic of Bosnia and of Croatia. This resulted in an increase in the expenditure of the BiH institutions' 2007 budget compared to the projection of these revenues in the 2007-2009 document, which amounts to 34,500,000 marks. This increase in total refers to the transfer of competences, meaning from entities and international institutions to BiH institutions, the development of the capacity of the Directorate for indirect taxation and the equipment of the friendship building between Greece and BiH – facility 3. Current expenditure in the 2007 budget was planned in the amount of 611.195,000 marks. Gross salaries and fees of employees were planned at 494,737,000 marks and account for 65.9% of the total BiH institutions' 2007 budget. Of these, the gross salary costs are 379,861,000, which accounts for 52.3% of the total BiH institutions' budget or 62.1% of the planned current 48 expenditures. The costs of the employees are 114.876,000 and account for 15.8% of the total planned budget, or 18.7% of the planned current expenditure. The total number of BiH institutions employed at 31.12.2006 was 22,363 employed by 12,658 of them in the defence ministry, which means 12,658. In order to achieve a partial increase in the number of BiH institutions, in line with the adopted rules on internal establishment and job systematization, funds for these purposes in the 2007 Budget were planned, making sure that employment is carried out in a succession, dynamically provided for in the Framework Budget document. It should be noted that in this way no planned number of employees will still be employed in accordance with the adopted rules on internal organisation and systematisation. At the same time, 1,658 employees were scheduled to leave in 2007 at the Ministry of Defence. Total number of employees in BiH institutions with 31.12.(?) The year is planned at 21.861. Material expenditure The budget of BiH institutions for 2007 planned at 116,457,000 marks and accounted for 15.5% of the total budget and 19% of the current expenditure in the planned budget of institutions in 2007. Capital expenditures are planned in the budget of institutions of 33,425,000 marks representing 4.4% of the total expenditure of the budget. The most significant item within the capital expenditures is: Building accommodation facilities of SIPA of 8.2 million marks; procurement of equipment for the Ministry of Defence of 7.9 million marks, of which only 4 million marks are related to uniforms; supply of equipment and facilities for the Directorate for indirect taxation of 4.300,000 marks; supply of MIP equipment of 1.4 million marks. The expenditure on specific purpose programmes is planned at 81,300,000 marks and accounts for 10.8% of the total expenditure planned by the 2007 budget of institutions. Compared to the approved 2006 budget, expenditure on special purpose programmes has increased by 42 million marks or 110%. This growth is largely related to the increase in the defence ministry's transition programmes: fired soldiers of 24.4 million marks; the increase in the current achievements of new programmes by the Ministry of Civil Affairs amounting to 5.9 million marks, which accounts for an increase of 68% compared to 2006. The largest individual increase in the BiH institutions' 2007 budget compared to 2006 concerns institutions that are in the final phase of establishing, expanding activities, and transferring competencies from entity to state level, i.e. from international institutions to BiH institutions. These data are shown in Table No. 3. column 4. – schedule of arrival by budget users. A significant part of the funding is planned to finance the start-up development of new institutions in 2006, as well as the development of new institutions in 2007, which must be established in the context of meeting the 16 priorities identified by the European Commission as an urgent commitment by BiH to meet the conditions for the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This applies to: Market surveillance agency, Insurance Agency, Food Safety Agency, Heroes for Consumer Protection, Foreign Affairs Service, Institute for Missing, Plant Health Administration, and amending the laws of the Council of Ministers, forming a Directorate for Economic Planning at the Council of Ministers. 49 In the end, I would like to emphasise the fact that 85% of the incomes The BiH institutions budget originally originates with the Single Account of the Board for indirect taxation. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The core task in the work of the Fiscal Council is to set a fiscal objective for each financial year, i.e. a framework for the construction of the Budget of the State, Entity and Brcko District. In particular, I would like to stress that all increases in the budget of BiH institutions from income, based on indirect taxes from the Single Account, implies that the agreement of entity and district representatives should be previously ensured, i.e. the reduction of entity budgets in the same amount. Therefore, the change in the agreed level of funding from the Single Account for the financing of BiH institutions must be the result of concessions at the level of the Fiscal Council, which must be particularly taken into account when considering the amendments to the draft budget. As all procedures are respected by law, and consultations with all users of the Budget, and given the deadline for adoption of the Budget which expires on 31.03.2007, I ask the representatives to support the adoption of the Budget today in order to ensure the conditions for the smooth functioning of all state institutions. I thank and stand in disposition if he needs an additional answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9731	Thank you, Mr. Vrankuć. So I hope that the opening remarks have had an effect, that is, that they have explained some things to you, that is, open up the possibility for questions as well. So, you, let me remind you, in the report of the Commission, you could see that the Law on the Implementation of Budget was adopted, this, in the first reading, but with the conclusions set out in the report. We are not going to discuss them now, but I am opening a debate, practically, on the Law on the Budget of BiH, an institution, on the Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions for 2007 in the first reading. So, we're having a discussion about principles. Here you go, Mr. Sadik Bahtić, chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9732	The Commission for Finance and Budget held a meeting on the principles and adopted the principles of the Bill proposal and the proposed text of the proposal in the follow-up legislative procedure, by adopting certain conclusions under: (a) That it is necessary to respect the basic principle of public money spending in real terms; all budgetary users must be able to act in an extremely thrifty, economically and proposer of the budget of the BiH institutions and all other institutions participating in its work must be required to comply with the deadlines for its development.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9733	May I have your attention, please? Take your seats.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9734	50 and delivery in a parliamentary procedure in accordance with the Law... the BiH institution, in order not to be put in such a position as it is now. We also scheduled a meeting for the 26th meeting on the amendments for the MPs of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly and at that session. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9735	Thank you very much, Mr. Bahtić. I just want to conclude that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has done everything to prevent it from being, I say, an obstacle to the adoption of the Budget by 31st and we have cut deadlines, but we have received the Budget quite late. So, I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Here you go. Mr. Kalabić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9736	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, given that the minister is here and that I will not specifically elaborate, in a few places we have said that
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9737	May I have your attention, we're having a discussion about the Budget, Mr. Zekić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9738	about our dissatisfaction that MPs have been brought into this situation that we formally take responsibility for Budget here today by voting, and unfortunately, I don't know which time, we're not the ones who are really taking part in the creation of this budget. We have one, I must say, sad situation that we take formal responsibility, and you will see in the audit reports how those to whom we are budgeting spend that money. But it's a topic for something else now. I don't want to miss the chance to express that dissatisfaction. Respecting the fact that the position of SNSD MPs was, and respecting what the minister said in part, that the agreed and agreed budgetary framework, that it came as a harmonised proposal in the procedure in the Parliamentary Assembly and that we have some amendments on this proposal today. I'd like to ask the Minister for a more precise position on the amendments that are in front of us today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9739	Thank you very much. We have, we have, just a little bit, we have Mr. Erić, here you go, Mr. Erić, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9740	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, 51 We discussed all amendments on the committee. What is the position of the SDS Club, our opinion that this Budget came too late and that it took a long time before it came to the debate so that we could discuss it in more detail, and therefore bear responsibility for this Budget's vote. So that we don't have long to discuss these issues, we're the attitude, therefore, that we're going to vote against the Budget, that's number one. Number two, a large number of amendments have been tabled and it is difficult for these amendments to determine what is good, which is not, which is not rejected, which I do not reject, and I think that if the assembly majority votes a number of amendments, it is wrong to vote on a number of other amendments. I will only say some remarks on: the census, the stay and agriculture, without undermining these other amendments that colleagues have submitted. So we need to seriously consider all these questions, and especially if we are to quickly adopt this budget that is necessary and the fact is that a little time has been left behind. But whether he's behind that intention or the procedural part, I'm not getting into it. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9741	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9742	I thank Mr. Chairman, I will speak in the first reading of the principles and, in a certain way, give an explanation from which you can see why the amendments, which I have suggested, could significantly change, I consider in a positive sense, the Budget itself. I understand this opposition attitude that won't support Budget. We are prepared to support the Budget, as SDP, if, naturally, the amendments that we have made here or even if a reasonable number of amendments that can essentially make this Budget more social, more developmental and less administrative. In fact, I'm taking the opportunity to thank the board members, this is the first time I've had in three years, four, maybe even, that my three amendments have passed on the Finance Commission. And it is my special pleasure that I sincerely hope that, perhaps, some may survive today's session. So I thank the people who have accepted the amendments that concern, first of all, one relationship with administrative spending and increases in the budget. In particular, the one relating to contractual and other specific services that should be reduced, which the commission has accepted. Also, I think it's very good that one support is given to the project of informing society through the amendment that has been accepted here and I hope that we will, too, survive. I especially thank the members of the commission, and I think it's very good that we worked so on the commission that one number of people from, I think, five parties, if I'm not mistaken, here, Mr. Jukić, I, Mr. Bahtić, even, did, from other parties, we had one set of amendments that were then united in this amendment concerning the Emergency Return Fund, i.e. an important correction of our relationship to the return of refugees and displaced persons, bearing in mind that, and what is here through the amendments accepted, is far from what is necessary for that. That, however, speaks of one definition, especially I think it's very good that on the commission with, for me pleasantly surprised, I hope that today I won't be awkwardly surprised, this accepted one relationship with a fact called Srebrenica and which lately has been overly politicized, and 52 in this way would be brought down into a better plane. A gesture of goodwill would also be shown by opening an item that talks about helping the 10 million Srebrenica project. And that's good stuff. Two amendments that I won't, I speak consciously of the amendments, but a few principles, why I say, Mr. Belkić, that the development and social budget should be less administrative. In fact, we have a lot of promises in Budget that are actually increasing by what even the bureaucratic dictionary calls the administrative function of the budget. In fact, gross wages and fees, as well as fees for the staff employed in this budget, are unnecessaryly reduced by amounts, are increasing the pardon, for amounts that do not send a good message. Even employee costs are increasing by, having index 137 or increasing by 37% this year, and in that light, I don't think that's a good message. In other words, there's room for savings. My set of amendments that I have proposed total means saving 35.5 million marks with an increase of 37 million. So, by 1 million grand, they say, strengthening the budget, but they didn't go in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9743	It's not on the inside.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9744	It didn't work out, it didn't work out that I'm just putting the invoice out, here, give me another 50, 60, 160 million, but 37 million increases are in an adequate way reduced to achieve some kind of balance. If this million is a problem, I'm ready to discuss it, perfectly naturally, to talk about it being 35 plus, 35 minus, there's no reason not to... However, I think that, in particular, I would like to point out our commitment that we have had several times, which is that, yes, the BiH Presidency, this Parliamentary Assembly, too, is showing its attitude towards costs, so that our increase is 31% in total, and the presidency is 15% in total, and we believe that these things can be reduced. Gross wages and fees could be reduced by 360 million by some, whether or not they only increase by 8 million, and not by another 16 million. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing and in the papers to see that, it seems that the Council of Ministers has decided to spend this part of the budget by increasing the warm meal and especially the living room that is already being calculated here. Also, Mr. Chairman, since we're talking about principles, I have three important things I'd like to say. One is, you remember well, and it didn't exist, I feel free to say, the difference between any of us who participated in those famous constitutional amendments, and it concerns the need to get two functions at the state level. And that absolutely no one had any objections to that. It is one that will be turned towards agriculture and the other towards scientific and research work. The two responsibilities of the countries in the area of agriculture, scientific and research work were also planned and, above all, to remind those who, this one, may have forgotten it, but why these two ministries were agreed, minor to the principle of consensus, because the two largest budget lines of the European Union are just dropping out for agriculture and after that for scientific and research work. And our assessment was that we needed to train state mechanisms that would have the capacity to join these pre-accession and other funds. 53 For these very reasons, I had one initiative here to open an item, quite naturally it is by our existing principles belonging to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, in principle there is nowhere to go, and then it goes there, and that is an item that would talk about supporting scientific and historic work in the amount of a million marks. I think it's something that represents one gesture very clear and precise. And another question, a question unlike Mr. Ivanković who had one really spectacular, uh, in every sense of the word, an initiative to increase this by 500 million, which I do not dispute to be good, but my initiative would go towards us symbolically single out the amount, approximately... 3% of the administrative part of the budget that would go to the Ministry of Foreign Trade which, therefore, of some twenty million marks, which, because we don't have administrative capacity, we don't have the mechanisms to share some funds, could be directed towards the cost of capital that would be in the function of domestic production. In other words, we pay interest reduction to what is production and agriculture and thus, practically, uh, make it through one such fund. And third, since I said the third principle, and that's the amount of pay money. In fact, I think that, even quite bravely, some people, who are new here at the Ministry of Finance, have come out with pretty clear definitions and information that we actually have one quiet administrative spending of funds in a not-in-house way. Let me translate it into a concrete example. There are a lot of committees here where senior officials, state ministers, even ministers and assistants and the entire administration have, through which committees, incomes that even in some cases amount to, there are cases that the monthly amounts are higher even than the salaries, the reception of ministers, or deputies there, tells me that I did not miss. Maybe I missed it when I said it was small. So here we have one very simple... it says, the number of people is projected larger, the funds are projected, then you don't take these people, then you form whatever commissions and through commissions are paid, uh, very serious funds. I also suggested the minister, the deputy minister told us that he would come out with such information so that we could deal with the team more seriously in the rebalancing process. I think it's one problem that's gonna come around our heads if we don't approach him in the right way. Even if, God, this is all wrong what I'm saying, then there wouldn't be any problem, but unfortunately, I'm afraid this is true. For these reasons, I felt that the expenditures and salaries and compensations of employees per employee should not exceed the amount of the previous year, as a principle and should be an integral part of the budget. And the other thing, we have here, however, one increase in administration in a slightly inappropriate way. By 22,363 employed as we were in 31.12.2006, we should end this year with 21.861 employed, which means we should reduce the administration by 500 people. And just when you think it's an excellent commitment, then you look at the table and you see, in fact, it's not like that at all. Namely, the defence ministry will reduce the number of employees by 1,658 people this year, but a new 1,200 people will be admitted. It wouldn't be a problem if it were those 600 interns the prime minister told us about under a trainee's admission program. But here we have, if I'm not mistaken, in this paragraph of the Ministry of Defence's transition, hiding these severances, right? Great. So, in the ministry we have one item that's increasing in the budget and it needs to increase, these people have to be given severances when they're leaving, and I really don't think there should be any, let's say, deviations from that rule. At 3,200,000, the transition increases to 21,200,000, by 21,200,000 which is 24,5 54 million marks which, Mr. Belkić, has been translated, when you divide those two figures you see that this is 15,000 marks of human severance per person, if that's a thousand or so I'm not getting into it. But what I am, what I am, that's why I had an amendment as a principle, then I can defend the amendment, we have here an increase in SIPA for 220 people, in DGS for 120 people, in some foreign affairs service of 50 people, etc. I don't believe that out of those 1,658 people, who are going to leave the Department of Defense tomorrow will get severances and be sent to the street, there are no people among them who can be employed in other state institutions that are planning to receive new people here. So my example and the principle was that you can't take new people unless you check out, first in internal competitions, call it whatever you want, whether the surplus administration is at the state level, first, those who can meet those criteria, and only then see if, since we're strengthening the state, it means that it will reduce the administration at lower levels, that, if there's a surplus of administrative in the canton, district or entity, that these surpluses need, first of all, if it's about qualified people, that they have to have an advantage here. So until we adopt that principle, we're actually just pumping up the administration and increasing it. And that's why the proposal, I must admit, is that I was surprised, I'm sorry that the Minister of Alkalaj is gone, watch out for the Foreign Ministry 15% will increase the number of employees compared to the middle of last year by the end of this, 15%, from 430 people to 500 people. And it's about reducing, closing -- rationalising the DKP network, so we want diplomats not to be beggars outside, but to have reasonable wages, we want to cut the network, and we want to increase the number of employees. That makes absolutely no sense. So, I consider, as the last and I end this, I apologize for that, Budget is one serious thing to make up.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9745	I'm very patient, I'm not interrupting anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9746	I'm bringing it in, so it's over. If these principles were accepted properly through some amendments, we would be willing to, as a state-run party, support what is in the interests of the state. Otherwise, we believe that the budget is against the interests of this country, given all the circumstances and therefore we could not support it like this. Like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9747	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Lagumdžija practically explained through the discussion the amendments to the princesses, so he rationally used the time. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9748	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is on the agenda. We see from more clubs and more advocates that we have grudges in the way and time that we are allowed as the highest legislative authority to consider the most important act in the country after the Constitution, and unfortunately, here it is repeated year after year, and so I will only have one observation on that 55 topic. If we were now limited by the establishment of the Council of Ministers' authority and by matching the adoption of the Budget, which is what it is, calendarly every year, I don't think we should repeat these mistakes next year and turn this debate into a formal one. I think it should be one of the conclusions for the adoption of this budget, therefore, that representatives, parties' clubs, the relevant committees and commissions must have a much stronger impact on the design of the budget than it is so far because it is so in every democratic country in the world. But still, I see that the Commission has made one effort and it deserves really congratulations on, in fact, showing that we are aware that Parliament ultimately approves this budget with the Presidency and that we must not agree to one practice which, in fact, said that we are only a flow boiler and that we accept the Budget by the system take or leave. Although I see these interventions that the Commission has accepted, they are encouraging, but they really are not enough, and if they were to affect this other part that should also apply to scientific and research work and incentives in agricultural production and other requirements, then we, as advocates, could justify, in fact, that we are not making a budget that is, in fact, in a function of being a purpose to ourselves, but to have the leverages, the instruments to move this country. And when we see where this budget ends, it ends up financing BiH institutions and external debt, not financing the developmental and other leverages that this country needs to run and release... and it is still a grudge and it is a reserve according to the principles of this budget that I am expressing here on behalf of our club, our party, and I think that it must be taken care of because the shifts have been made, we need to establish that. If we take the first budget after Dayton, and if we see where those numbers are now, that's almost a tenfold increase compared to the first year and we see one evolution, but that evolution, and that's a fundamental observation here, it's not enough for what this country and these people need right now. And this proposal by Mr. Lijanović is not spectacular. He's actually, if we take him a little bit more seriously, the only possible way to even wake up and open a story about what the purpose of the budget is. I am not talking about the reality of the amount, but about the fact that BiH's external trade imbalance is such that it threatens even vital functions of the Budget and everything else, and this country does not respond to it very well. And that's why I'm willing to support the debate. If we are willing to support this debate, we can talk about the amounts. And that's the possibility of time and someone else, they're redecorating again the way that we have to, here, get to 31 today. If we don't adopt, things stop, etc. In fact, we're not in a position to seriously discuss essential matters. So, if we take, uh, in my capacity, I would like to see if there is any space or way in which this issue will be opened by the Council of Ministers, not only by the representatives together, and that the Ministry of Finance, the transporter and the finance minister will respect these elements from the debate and open one, uh, timely opportunity to answer these questions strategically. As for the amendments our club had, the HDZ Club in 1990 were incorporated and contained, partly accepted in this amendment, which deals with the issue of return, which is one of the most important issues and I believe, therefore, that there has been a shift, but insufficient since this return fund as BiH's institution is number 47 and established to take responsibility for the return when international support for this process falls. She's down. 56 And you can see that as representatives, we actually had to intervene because it was not planned at all by the budget, to be that institution with that intention, but only to function and to have a title, as well as a large number of BiH institutions, and I propose that kind of conclusion, still works in shape, not by content, and only to use budgetary resources without evacast. And one of these is, here we see, and the amendment that we've seen here now, related to the State Regulatory Agency for Electricity, which, in fact, see if there's any point at all, and we see what budgets it uses. And that segment could be included, when it comes to principles, institutions of particular importance, it's cultural, scientific, religious, and it should also be welcomed, what's moved, but I also don't think it's enough for the amendments of individual representatives to intervene, and it needs to be welcomed, but these are some functions that would encourage both us and all those users to calculate, but also all the citizens in BiH, that we can see what the strategic interests of all those who don't endanger, or entities, or certain collectiveities, but actually create space for this country to start much more courageously, and not only as officials from international financial institutions say, think about their own money. Finally, through reforms in the financial sector and the Directorate for Direct Taxation, a single account, VAT, we have created instruments to collect income and I don't think we have at all a debate of quality, how effective it is, how effective it is, and how still uncovered space that could be enriched at the cost position, and I say that these are the least 100 million figures, which could then be focused on these priorities that I'm talking about. So, while we are already on principles, in this limited time and with this approach, it was not possible to even make a major shift, but we have a four-year period when the budget as a key event in a paraliamentary life should get at least a month and commissions and representatives and clubs and, here, it is one of our proposals, conclusions. We are prepared to support some other amendments that are here and with these additions to support the budget, if we were to go in the direction, in the future, to realize these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9749	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9750	So 1,200 new officials, 1,660 soldiers less, about 460 less employed than last year, 2.5%. And wages are, gross wages are up 4%. We've got a cut in numbers, and a raise in gross wages. Costs of employees by 37% are increased. That's 31 million KM more in 57 compared to last year. The contracted services that are one undefined space, we can't catch what this is about, are 29% higher, or 5.3 million KM. This reduced number of officials will spend on the phone and on the mail 1.6 million more than last year, and on the lease of business premises 1.8 million more. In total, the administration will cost, the reduced administration will cost 90 million marks more than last year. So this isn't a developmental budget or a social budget, this is some kind of civil, administrative one. He's good for it, the clerks are comfortable. There will be more, they will be hired, they will have higher wages, they will spend easily in a poor country. And I think there was plenty of room to cut. And we will, I'm glad that the Budget and Finance Commission has made some of it, but we will certainly insist on doing it more rationally. Here's what I call on the government to do already on the walk and that, and that we're going to have to do it on this, like the House, on the rebalancing of the Budget. More illogicality. The Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, the Coordinator's Office, will spend 450,000 marks on travel expenses. The Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments for Promotional Material will not spend anything. They'll only let CNN spin that old video, 200 thousand marks, and then they'll increase the number of clerks and spend 1.7 million marks on themselves, and they won't put anything under promotional material. And that's her function to promote investment. The refugee ministry will spend on itself, on officials, 3.7 million marks, and on return 1.2. So, we were angry when UNHCR spent 20% on a wartime Bosnian organization on its offices, jeeps and 20% left, and now our administration is spending 60-70%. The central election commission increases the number of employees and costs in the election year. The return fund spent 500 thousand marks, 20% more than last year, and for the return programme only 1.4 million marks. The Foreign Affairs Service will spend 5,327,000 KM this year. The Institute of Missing Persons will spend only 50% of the funds on exhumations and a 6.6m burial, so half of the funds will be spent on themselves, on salaries. So, I'm glad that the Finance and Budget Commission has appreciated some of this, I say we'll do other budget rebalancing repairs and the SDA will support Budget with these changes that have now gone through the Commission's work and that fix Budget in terms of support for the return, 10 million for Srebrenica, 26 million for the return, this, through the work of the Return Fund. So, that's the kind of reinforced budget we're going to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9751	I thank you, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9752	Here I will take the opportunity to remind, if anything provides reasons for sometimes dissatisfaction or adventurous spirit travel, it's always the story of the budget. Rarely anyone who can be satisfied with any timetable, budget structure, etc. No matter what budget it is. I, by circumstances, have been following the debate in this House for a long time on the state budget and more or less of the criticisms that have been heard today on Budget, listen every time we discuss Budget and most of it is justified. But what I want to draw attention to, what I want to draw attention to, is finally, finally, the real need for medium-term budgetary planning in BiH, which would in some ways be absorbed through medium-term budgetary planning. I want to remind everyone, that when we have all communication with international financial institutions, sometimes we make it easy to promise that we will adhere to the criteria, the frameworks of budgetary, consumption, the programming that international financial institutions carry out in accordance with the usual economic criteria, and when we come to a concrete field, let's say the adoption of Budget, then we often wander off in accordance with some requirements and short-term interests, whether they are justified or not. In that sense, I would suggest to the Ministry of Finance that as soon as possible, at one of the next sessions, notices which steps, which are taken in terms of medium-term budgetary planning. Furthermore, to remind you that we are being followed by a reform of the administration, i.e. public administration and a good part, what is part of this reform already included in the draft budget itself, and there will be a good part of the needs, probably in this budget or in the budget for next year, to make the necessary adjustments in line with the pace of these reforms. Furthermore, suggestions one, with full respect, indeed, arguments and the need to make the necessary adjustments that we have received in the amendments' proposals. I will remind you, let's say, that some of these amendments that are ahead of us are jumping out of the framework of the law that this Parliament has passed. So, let's say, we have a proposal to remove items for some state regulatory agencies. I'm not going to talk here, uh, really, with all due respect, but we can't cut through the budget some agency if it's established for example. The power law. In addition, most of these amendments, i.e. the majority of these amendments, relate to the correction to expenditure items with the exception of an amendment which, unfortunately, is not in the form of an amendment translated, which would possibly include a correction on the income item. It is an amendment submitted by counterpart Sefer Halilović and an amendment to the draft budget, where, among other things, a full amount of funds received by civil aviation is required. I'll remind you, besides the State Civil Aviation Agency, there are entities. I don't know if this budget can show the full amount of funds that goes to civil aviation because part of the funds is received by the State Agency, in part, through entity budgets, they go to entity aviation agencies. 59 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9753	Thank you. Mr. Živković. Here, just give me a minute to sort of level it. I have registered, Mr Lijanović, Dolić, Kadrić, Jukić, Halilović. Is there anyone else besides these, that we can plan time, that he wants to talk? Here, that's it. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9754	Thank you, Chairman. Obviously from the debate, otherwise in all countries, it is customary for the debate on the budget to be the most significant event in one country. However, BiH is once again one of the specific countries that, behold, often puts itself in a position to discuss such a significant document 5 minutes to 12, in the way that it is discussed, forgetting the fact that it is the proposing of this budget, how the budget is proposed here and we behave as offended Members who have not consulted us in committees, because we have not previously been consulted, we are trying to change and give our position. I think this is the wrong way for this assembly to order both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers in the future to be actively involved in budget preparation, not in this way in the commission, as we have now done, to make their adjustments. And we came into a situation that I don't know how to get out of, I even wrote a bill on amending the BiH institutions' financing law, where it is said that the budget should be adopted by 31 March each year at the latest. If the budget is not adopted by 31 March, the budget for the previous year shall apply until the budget for the current year. However, I didn't want to pass the law today and put it on the agenda, because I don't think that we in the BiH Parliament should give anyone the opportunity to, because this law is not passed here, because they didn't respect the deadlines, we are in the Parliamentary Assembly who will extend those deadlines. We think that in this process of budgeting, such a significant document, we need to be serious and that each of us should take part of our guilt, if it is mentioned in the law within this time limit, even though nothing is mentioned in the Constitution, it is not adopted. On the other hand, as the minister has already said, I would remind this Parliament and all those who think this is the Council of Ministers, that these amendments have destroyed the principles of this budget, or the law, and that, by breaking items for 37 million, we are putting people in danger of being brought into question about the implementation of this budget, so that in this context, I would ask one of the clubs or the chairman to take a break and I think that the people of RS but here, I will tell the SNSD Club, is not able to vote on the principles of this law until the situation is clear about the amendments we have proposed. And I think we need this time in this pause to use the finance minister and club presidents to try to find a way out of the situation, so the law doesn't come into question but in first reading, or in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9755	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mr. Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9756	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I have an amendment to this law, so I'm not going to talk about it right now. I'll tell you more about him later. What I thought was necessary, I tried to ask those who prepared this budget, why they did it in this way, what it reflects on them. Some of them have given me that they are only proposing and that they can't make any mistakes, and that those who adopt this are the ones who are responsible for their adoption. On the basis of words like that, I've made an effort to do a detailed analysis, see where we're going, where we're at, and what our goal is. You got some materials and analysis in writing, and I ran some good managerial experiences. I'll give you one quick and I'll give it to you now. A shoe manager had a problem with the market in Europe and the United States and sent his managers to Africa to investigate whether there was a possibility of selling shoes in Africa. He sent his two representatives and after several months and detailed analyses, they returned with reports of over 100 pages. They delivered the reports. He opened the report, opened the last page. In one report, the last page said that all the bosses in Africa were barefoot and that there was no shoe market down there at all. And the second report, the last page said in Africa, are all barefoot and there's a huge shoe market down there. This first manager got fired immediately, and the second manager got a new job, to make a plan on how to sell shoes in Africa. I'm also thinking about this budget. We can have two approaches. One is that nothing can be done, and the other is, let's say, there's a lot to be done here, just to make it half and realize it. About what we should really do, I'll talk about it a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9757	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanković. One little remark. And I heard that the state is a very bad manager and everyone's running away into a private initiative. So you shouldn't expect the state to run a business. So, Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9758	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will also talk about principled matters, since I have no amendments to this budget. The BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2007 are being brought into an extremely specific environment. Let me paint that setting with a few grades. 61 First, we bring the budget to, in some way, the criminal year, when a personal shift has been carried out in power and I can accept it as one of the justifiable reasons for being late in the budget process. We bring budgets without reports and analysis of budget implementation for the previous year, 2006. And even, as I understand it, without adequate information on budget implementation in this draft budget that is ahead of us. We bring the budget without any development and reform projections in BiH for 2007. We bring the budget at a time when budget revenues are more certain than ever in the post-war period in BiH, and there is far more room for budget revenues than this planned growth in budget revenues says. We bring the budget without the necessary analysis, especially on the side of budget expenditure, which would provide the necessary transparency in budget planning. Satisfying transparency and analysts, they are provided only in the payment and service of BiH's international obligations. We are bringing the budget for 2007 at a time when it is yet to take place, here at today's session, to discuss the report on the audit carried out in BiH institutions for 2005, in which a great deal of shortages and spending of budget funds is observed, at the very least, on illegal or arrogant behaviour in the spending of budget funds. I believe we all know the role of the BiH institution's budget. In each normal country, in addition to the function of providing for the functioning of vital functions of the government, the budget plays both the role of a direct and very effective co-ordinator in the economic and social and structural and other sphere of life. This budget that we are discussing today has only one function to ensure the functioning of the government, or rather, this budget is solely the guardian of the regime of government. There is no element in this budget that would refer to the role of the economic, development, structural, social or other coordinators, i.e. the mechanism. Corrections are true, but corrections in the field of consumption and in one way, I'll say, perfiduous. If that were the case, it would be sufficient to make an insight into several items on the side of budget expenditure. Gross wages have always been an important barometer for budgetary projections. In today's Budget Proposal, we have one absurdity. Gross wages have a index of 4 index points, and employee costs, a growth of 37 index points. Whoever understands this knows that this is nothing more than a 20% growth. One who also understands and monitors this knows that these tendencies have been present for many years in budgeting and knows that this item has somehow served as a budget reserve for budget users. They are also symptomatic trends in the growth of the item so-called "Students". agreed and other specific services for which, as usual, there is no analysis to record the planned growth of 29 index points or 5 times the planned growth of total expenditure. It is known what is mostly financed from this item, there were words here from previous colleagues. This budget proposal means that farmers in the inauguration in front of the assembly will have to further determine the tent settlement, that police reform, at least for this year, has failed and much more, that Corridor Vc is still on hold, etc. 62 This is just a small part of the reason I can't personally support a budget like this. I have not personally invested in the amendments and, of course, I will support the amendments that are, for which there is justification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9759	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Mr. Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9760	Thank you. I'll be real quick. In principle, let me say some things when it comes to the problem of returning and the allocation of funds for the return of people who have returned to their pre-war homes. This, not to repeat, is really clear to all of us, is one of the most important issues. Therefore, I ask the Minister and his deputy to see, to find a way to, therefore, get some of the funds proposed through this committee, to find a way to fit these funds into this budget proposal and, of course, not to jump out of the framework of this proposed budget. Thus, the return of humans is one of the most important issues. We are witnessing that people are returning to their pre-war homes, returning Srbin to the Federation, Tuzlo, Zavidovice. The Bošnjak are returning to RS anyway. The Hrvat are returning to Posavina. It is the interest of all of us, therefore, to find, indeed, to be able to find the means to find some of the funds that are provided for in this Commission's proposal to be included in this budget and thus meet these needs.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9761	Thank you, Mr. Kadrić. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9762	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respecting all similarities related to the adoption of this budget, including, most importantly, this time, so 2 days before the deadline, for the adoption of this budget. We're breaking up, here we have it in our first reading. And of course we need to be aware of our responsibilities that, however, we have the budget on time, and that's in two days. But here, I will make a few principled remarks on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club of BiH. First of all, on the principle of passing this law, I think we can only speak to those who were managed by the Council of Ministers, or the Presidency. But also, the opportunity now is to talk about these principles with a desire and a goal, at least it's my thinking, that in 63 planning the next and the next budget they take in general. And this was to be managed by principles that apply to EU countries and other developed countries. Of course, with us, respecting all the specificities and constitutional arrangements of BiH and the constitutional competences of BiH institutions, we cannot speak and we do not have all the elements that we should and should be able to install, which exist in other certain budgets of some other countries. Thus, it is known that each country's budget is one of the most important, if not the most important instrument of the country's macroeconomic policy, for that year. Of course, there's also mid-term planning. Another approach to budgeting for a medium-term period, of course, needs to be brought back into line with the medium-term development strategy and with the BiH's priority development goals. What is important and important, however, is that in the second part of our work, the statements on the Budget do not violate the most important fundamental principle of this budget, which is the principle of income balance and expenditure. And so I would ask all of us together, and myself and my colleagues will party to it, we should do everything here today and support the principles and suggest that some other principles that will respect our strategic goals and the development of BiH and the development strategy, but also ensure that this budget is adopted in time and that, however, today we are realistic and that what is most important, but I will just repeat, in agreement with the promoter, that we can get the text of the budget and that we do not go into some adventures and we do not present here a list of wishes etc. because really, really and really this budget can be well criticised, however, I will say it on my own behalf and on behalf of the Club, with responsibility we need to bring and have a budget today. I think we need these amendments that are here and with the Committee, maybe modify and get to those that are acceptable and that can pass and I will repeat, that we do not yet violate the most important principle, which is the principle of income balance and expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9763	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Halilović. And get Mr. Lozančić ready and we'll conclude, no more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9764	Mr. Chairman, I'm just going to say a few words very briefly, in principle, I hope to have the opportunity to explain, uh, the amendments. I'm a little worried about it when I took the budget and studied the budget and compared it to the budget of last year and earlier, mostly, it seems to me to be with very small corrections, in five blankets. And out of that, a lot of conclusions are being drawn and I'm particularly concerned about this, especially this revenue part, when it comes to Budget. And, of course, this part of the expenditure when it comes to Budget. The revenue part, when it comes to Budget, I think I'm a little worried about the Council of Ministers' orientation because I don't see from it that they are something special, that they are particularly focused or emphasized that development concept of the new Council of Ministers. I'm not satisfied with how 64 treats the return population, because I think there's a lot of room here in which way and how it can be solved. I am not satisfied with the way agriculture is handled, how agriculture and tourism are encouraged. There is no orientation of the Council of Ministers when this revenue side is at stake, a different approach, this, the fight against crime and corruption, and especially the dominant fight against the black market. And it seems to me that they're just overwritten, not neglected, and not fully accepted by these cultural institutions that I've attached this amendment to. I think the new Council of Ministers should have at least made a commitment that, if it was an assessment of the former Council of Ministers, that the black market in BiH swallowed between 5 billion and 6 billion annually, this mark, that this Council of Ministers should have given itself the task of at least 10% of the black market. And that can be, I think this Council of Ministers is such a capacity and the development of the BiH state is at that level that it can now be done more effectively. If last year or three or four years ago, an excuse not to operate state institutions when it comes to OSA, SIPA, State Border Service, entity ministries, etc. I think in this time, in 2007, the capacity of these institutions is state, at a higher level, and if they had just taken to solve 10% of the black market, we would have 500 to 600 million marks in the budget, and in this way we could solve a lot of things when it comes to the very items I was talking about. And let me, hopefully, explain the amendments and I'll talk a little bit more specifically about the black market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9765	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. And we've still got Mr. Lozančić and we're closing the debate on the first reading. And Mr. Bajazit. I usually get to the bottom of it. I missed. We still have Mr. Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9766	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, so I know that the budget is an opportunity for all of us to take some of our views on how we see, uh, the realisation of our policies in the institutions where we are, here, able to decide. And I'm sure it's grateful today to talk about new topics and say everything we'd be happy to do. But I don't envy a minister of finance who's able to explain something he's not a pronoun, to explain something he's not a maker, to explain something, uh, conscious and, uh, there's a lot he'd like to do, but there are limiting factors. There's a lot that's mentioned here today, which I would support with both hands. But I am aware that there are constraint elements. It was nice to hear from many colleagues today how much we spend on administration. And I agree, indeed, that we spend a lot on administration. But we also had opportunities here in this Parliament's meeting to hear from fellow MPs that absolutely unsatisfactory are the conditions in which this most legislative body works. I remember a fellow MP mentioning that there was no computer on which to write a representative question, so 65 must write it by hand. All of this is provided by the money to those who, here in this draft budget, whatever is voted upon, are secured. It would be nice to talk about reducing consumption to really give our own example and our own contribution to this reduction in consumption. It's easy to increase and reduce items. But tomorrow we will again be in a position to talk to each other or here on different occasions, when the budget passes, how there is no working conditions, how hard it is to find associates and professionals who will work for such low, miserable salaries, not to talk about MPs, not to get the wrong idea, in BiH institutions, we will ask both the SIPA and the OSA and the DGS and all law enforcement institutions to increase efficiency
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9767	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9768	But at the same time, we'll forget that people work there for poor little wages.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9769	Guests, please, silence. I'll empty the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9770	So for poor little wages, let's not expect miracles. So we have to show it specifically if we want these institutions to really work, if we want state institutions to exist, then we have to show it by our relationship to the standards of people who work in these institutions. I believe that there will be needs and opportunities for both this budget and other budgets to be discussed and rebalanced, so at a time when, here, we see certain movements, so let's figure out if there's room for certain things. But here, in the context of this first reading, I would suggest a single initiative, a conclusion, whatever you want, that I quickly looked at here in the Budget, I think someone mentioned it in these papers, 500 million marks in this budget are being spent, and there is no legal regulation that defines the consumption of these funds. So 500 million marks of the BiH institution spend on gross salaries and fees employed in BiH institutions. And that 500 million is spent based on dozens of different decisions, regulations, and I don't even know the recommendation, not to say that someone might be spending it without all of it. I believe there's a lot of room for this consumption to go down and today you've mentioned ways of getting someone somewhere to, uh, motivate one of your associates. I'm against anyone getting along, I'm against the fact that there are clearly defined items in such acts in the Budget. One of the possible regrets is that we have not seen in every institution what it is, which is the number of employees in an institution that spends certain budgets, and then we could calculate well how much who spends. Because this is how we put it in one bag. And even those who really can barely make ends meet are some kind of state administration that we're saying today is overpaid. I, uh, need to make sure that they listen to us, that we represent them, and that we expect them to make their contribution. 66 And I'm, uh, hoping that this instance will bring some convergence because I think it's impossible to accept all the amendments that are proposed in this first reading, uh, support this budget, but I think we should make an effort to get to the budget today, and then, here, maybe make a commitment, uh, to get to the budget rebalance in some reasonable period, when we have a little more precise indicator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9771	Thank you, Mr. Lozančić. We have Mr. Jašarević and Mr. Kalabić. I'm asking you, if there are still potential debates to report now, that we can plan. For the replica. I beg you, Mr. Jašarević, the replica, I have not noticed, Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9772	...the thing about how we make a list of wishes, impossible and here we live with it. Let me tell you, increasing the costs of the administration by 90 million, and calling it the wish list, which we want a few million to single out, to take one small step towards the information society and a few dozen million for the most difficult problem in BiH, for refugees and Srebrenica, these are no wish lists. Those are the minimums. If we do not take a step towards the information society, towards raising our children, education, information, we will become a sclerotic country, which is slow to work, slow to communicate. It just has to be done. So these are some minimums. It should be ten times as many for that purpose, and this is not a wish list. And I'm asking you to support that thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9773	Thank you very much, Mr. Izetbegović. Please, replica to replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9774	I, uh, when there are conversations, discussions about amendments, then I'll comment on every amendment. Here I have indeed spoken in general. So I didn't call out, who found himself called, uh, I had no intention of calling anyone, I was talking about principles, principles, and if possible, uh, I would really, really, if possible for the problem and the programs and the return and sustainability of the return. I'd join those but we need to find sources that spoke of 500 million marks, not 50 and 20, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9775	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić, an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9776	In his statement, counterpart Lozančić said that they were embarrassingly low salaries in BiH institutions, then he made a comparison as not referring to the Parliamentary Assembly, where they are large, thought of the SIPA and then mentioned some other institutions. I have to spend more time here because of these people sitting behind me and by the offices, saying that the situation in reality is completely different. If we look at just running people for ministerial functions, then we had precisely from those institutions that my colleague Lozančić mentioned, they came here and they had 30-40% higher salaries than they had ministers or representatives. So, if we do an analysis or when we do an analysis of what the salaries are for various agencies, administrations and how much the salaries are to ministers, MPs, then we're going to come up with a devastating relationship, but in favour of those institutions mentioned here by fellow Lozančić. So, the truth is, I'm not going to talk about the pay in the Parliamentary Assembly, but certainly it's not the ratio compared to, let's say, the SIPA in favour of the Parliamentary Assembly, looking at whether or not it's the positions, whether it's Parliament's chairman, whether it's the representative and whether it's the director, whether it's his deputy, etc. And even to the employees of the administrators, we'll see that it's in favor of those agencies.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9777	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Jašarević. We have Mr. Kalabić and Mr. Mušić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9778	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Finance and Budget Committee was unable to present the principles on which this draft budget was made and we did not vote to accept it, because we knew them and because we supported them. We did it because we think that the damage from budgeting is much greater than trying to fix it in what time in a way that clearly knows these principles. Of course, we would all like to accept a budget that clearly states that the cost of gross wages and fees must grow slower than the growth of budgets, than the growth of budget revenues. Not speaking explicitly about the number of employees or salaries, but about the costs which are the number of employees and of course there must be an increase in wages if we are to make a serious administration. With the formal assignment of the number of employees, it is constantly, can be, we weaken it by making it dependent and especially is a great danger that is said to be compensated by some other ways. And I expect much from this break, in addition to the agreement on the adoption of the budget, a number of conclusions that will allow both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers to build their policy and their objectives in this budget. I think that this proposal was inherited and that in such a short time there could be no creation that would be the assumption of one turn. Of course, it would be easier to advocate that the costs and transfers from which the specific purpose projects are financed grow as the budget grows, and that the development part of the budget grows above how the budget grows. If we could secure these principles in at least the first six months of the work of the new Council of Ministers and this Parliament, we would make a full hit. 68 Therefore, I suggest you respect that we have had great respect for not touching the public revenues that will be collected in 2007, because we know that we must take seriously the financing of lower levels of government and, besides, the court and the Fiscal Council must do so, we have tried, in the least possible technical way, to make an open assessment of how much these transferred revenues are, on the 3rd point of the 7th point. And to finance from that what there are legal assumptions, and for those ideas that are presented here today, which there are legal assumptions, and we don't ask for big resources, and we include that by accepting amendments and for those ideas that are wanted for large funds, and there are no legal assumptions, that in the conclusions of this break we give ourselves that we will create legal assumptions and as soon as they are created or rebalanced of the budget, and more likely by the new budget for the next year, we provide such a single policy in funding from the state level. If you recognize that we have been doing this on the Finance and Budget Committee, it may be easier there when you agree to find a measure that will be this framework, but acceptable, I will say for a sufficient number of votes that the budget passes, because it seems to me that it should still be adopted in a certain way today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9779	Thank you, Mr. Jašarević. Mr. Kalabić. And we have more, here's Mr. Mušić's resignation and I'm practically closing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9780	It is not a discussion, Mr. Chairman, since normically, I am also looking for a break but before that, my intervention once again, that Minister Vrankić, since we have said that the principles are related to amendments, says not his own position on amendments, but his influence, proposes amendments to the principles themselves. I asked that a moment ago and I'd like to ask if, to help us in the break
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9781	Well, you see, Mr. Kalabić, we will certainly give Mr. Minister the opportunity to answer some of the questions that came out of the discussion, some comment, etc. I just wanted to say that I am concluding a debate on principles, i.e. first reading and calling on the minister, to say that some answers to any questions he recognized in the discussions and comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9782	..serious enough, uh, I'll try to joke a little bit, you'll let me, it's a bad move when you go to the MP on this other side, and it's even worse if you stubbornly defend it, uh, which is in these papers. I mean, I want to say what I always like to say. We're one side, they don't have two sides. Both MPs and the Council of Ministers and we are at the same job. 69 I had the first working session in the Council of Ministers, as the minister suggested the Budget as it was prepared, he is further in the procedure. We've got him on the tables now. As far as we're concerned, it's the fastest thing that could happen. I don't think we should explain that we're all aware of, uh, which is why we're just or just now in the adoption budget. What I'd like to stress, by respecting everything you've said, I don't want to replicate for one moment, but also to give some of my personal impressions, I'm still going to say that I don't feel invited to answer or accept or accept amendments. I'm ready for my thoughts, my suggestions to help, to make it easier for you to decide because I don't think I have a mandate here. What, at the beginning of what I notice, our budget is called the Budget of the Institutions and the International Obligations of BiH. Budget of institutions. So we're talking pay, so it's pay, that's what the budget is called. The second thing, when it comes to principles, what we must or should be careful about, and what I think is the basis for everything, I, as a minister, always look at the legal basis, or the constitution that gives us certain powers in which we must behave. And when it comes to income and expenditure. And I think that's what's the greatest limiting factor for this assembly, so most of these discussions could be incorporated into this budget. And believe me, that my commitment to it is to come up with such positions that here in this House is being discussed in such a way and that we have a mandate, that we can, therefore, act in one direction or another. It also means on the income and expenditure side and meet all BiH needs. What I think and want to point out is this: that the principle of balance is the basic principle of each budget. And a legal basis on balance. Not just this budget we have here today, but everyone. Unfortunately, we live in a country where I, as state minister, cannot get the data on how many budgets there are in BiH. That's sad, but true. We have an initiative to establish, and we are currently under way to establish a macroeconomic analysis agency at the Council of Ministers. When I establish it, I believe that we will not have any other problems in order to do so through the administration, as a member, I can ensure that in this context I can say that BiH's fiscal capacity is somewhere around 8.5 billion. So, at all levels, but I'm saying, that's one estimate that I can't guarantee, and of that total part, we get, so in that total figure of 8.5 billion, somewhere around 4 billion 800 is from a single account, the other are incomes that are directly generated on entities, counties and municipalities and those who have their own income. A total of 632 million comes from a single account. It's somewhere around here, here's 11% of all fiscal capacity revenues, either from a single one, here's 1 % going total capacity on this budget, and I think that's how it's very difficult to talk about development or any other budget, but simply, these are limits, restrictions, and that's what here I am, as a minister, limiting that I would suggest something different. What, the increases that are often mentioned here, from this analysis that I had, as much as I could influence, and I had very little impact on this budget, speak of increasing BiH institutions. We're establishing institutions. Well, the biggest hikes are on that track, and if we've defined ourselves as institutions, then we can't look at, I don't know, negative increases. I'm not for being manipulated, if we have an increase, so someone's rerouting them to something third, Bog forbid, I've even put in law that we can't do it at the will of 70 ministers, but that the law has to be passed in order to have as little speculation as possible in this regard and I think that in this relationship we have to have the same, uh, relevant thinking. When agreeing with the Budget, in principle, it agrees with all users and about the same debate. They come, I don't know, the Ministry of Finance, then every insult, what the people would say to us, we're saying we can't, we can't, you don't, you don't have data, about as much as there used to be some criticism here. In the end, we come up with one consensual position and after all, I'm not competent to defend, let's say, now the Minister of Defense's office, some things that are too big or too small. I think her obligation, or all her colleagues or users, is to calculate that in their appropriate way because they all have audits like we have audits, they have to justify what they do, and everything has to be based on the law. What I can say, what could be said here is encouraging, we're working in the initiative we're changing, means supplementing this law exactly on principles. And that's what's probably on the Committee's trail to develop this system, so that we don't come into controversy, and just if we have built principles, then simply every debate will be unnecessary based on the principle in the approval procedure, and the analysis and use itself through the principles I solve, is that what needs to be and whether there are wrong moves, and God Bog there's still any abuse? The pay law is certain, this is well-detected. I often find it uncomfortable when people say, I don't know, there's a lot of pay for you, here this much. I can't give a decadent answer. It's usually what journalists like to ask. I feel, like a minister, uncomfortable, 'cause really everybody's been paying for some rules of their own, even though the basics and wages, so the coefficient hasn't been changed since '98. The last time they've been corrected in '98, that's where they're talking about the level of pay they're standing. Here, I've also made a decision at this very little time at the Ministry, we're doing a law, an inter-resor working group that prepares the pay law, and, well, hopefully, it's going to come very quickly to the stage that we can discuss, in the first place, through the board and the rest, to really bring it into these principles that stand. When it comes to this budget, I will finally say, ask, that I have seen some amendments that even the Committee has adopted. They're not consistent. There's a spending site, there's no source of income. I mean, the alphabet of the job is to balance ourselves out, that if we're proposing the spending side, we have to say what the income side is, leading to the normal balance of the entire budget. What has often been mentioned here, there is one problem here that is again related to the law, and it talks about the Reporting Act, or adoption of the Final Report Budget for the previous year, means, in this case in 2006, it is adopted after 180 days. It is the law, because of the complexity of operations outside the country, because, is it, the DKPs etc. It's a long process, unfortunately that's how it is. The adoption of the report determines whether there is excess income. If there is excess income, they go to a special position in the Budget as income because by the methodology of income they can't register twice as income and that's, say, the entity ministry, where I was before, you wouldn't be able to display it as income, but since we're a state, that we have specific funding from a single account, uh, that's not, it's kind of another gymnast and we're kind of getting a green light from the IMF that we can include these revenues after the report, and then they're used in accordance with the decisions made at that moment. The mistake that was made or not made, again I am building on it, when this budget was made, and 71 I explained that the famous 34 million marks, because of the new institutions, were resolved so that 17 million were taken from the single account because in the first variation there was 614, it seems to me, millions, so we increased it to 632, with the consent of the Fiscal Council, as I explained, and these 17 were estimated to possibly be expected to remain income and, perhaps, a little bit on the edge of the law had already entered the consumer side, or the income side of this 17 million position. Whether there will be new incomes, extra revenue achieved to the final account, that is very difficult to say. It's a legal category, you need to adopt a budget, uh, a report on the implementation of the budget, and then you need to know exactly what it's about. This is the law, these are the facts. The rest I can help you, I'm standing in disposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9783	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here, you heard. Practically, we, to put it this way, have come to terms with the timing that we have an agreed break in half three for our duties regarding the encounter with Mr. Sanader. But here, through this debate and the announcements of club relations towards Budget, first reading, etc., I suggest that we take a break by half four, and now we hold a meeting of club presidents. So, I invite the presidents of clubs at 2/2 and Mr. Minister, to try some more, uh, see what it is that could be done. I volunteer, people don't have to attend if they don't want to. Break. [[PAUZA]] We continue to work, of course, with an apology from the MPs that we have scheduled a break of up to half four practically extended for almost an hour. Of course, all in good intentions and attempts to find appropriate solutions that will go towards creating conditions for us today to adopt the Bill on Budget of BiH institutions. Unfortunately, we haven't managed until the end, so to speak, to agree on amendments to the final appearance of the Budget of BiH, and it is up to me to pick up where we broke up, so to speak. We had a debate when it came to first reading. We also had the Prime Minister's opening statement, and we had his, so to speak, final comment and pause, here I'm saying, we haven't been able to use it. For me, there are two options. Let's make a statement today about Budget in the first reading, or possibly postpone it by tomorrow, and do the rest of the agenda. So that's one dilemma with me. Maybe I'd like to hear you think about it, too. Please, I can't guarantee, Mr. Križanović, what it will bring. I was hoping that in this break, with my best intentions I would make, along with Mr. Živković and Mr. Lozančić, and it brought what it had brought. And what they'll bring tomorrow, I can't be sure of it. Here you go, Mr. Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9785	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I think that if there is no agreement, we should not vote on the Budget. Let's do these dots of the others and try to reach some sort of solution by tomorrow and then do it tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9786	Okay, thank you. Is there any more thinking? Is there more? Here you go, Mr. Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9787	Mr. Chairman, I think we should let it go tomorrow. But what I'm saying here is that yesterday the government in Banja Luka made a very pompous decision to declare Srebrenica out of special economic and social attention, if I could understand it from the media. And this story today is that we are trying to help the space where the genocide was opening or revealing a new face of the SNSD and the Government of Milorad Dodik and the instructions that he sent to his MPs in this parliament not to accept this amendment that mentioned the space where the genocide was. This is the true face of the relationship against the victims of genocide, and everything else is the EPP for the international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9788	Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9789	This, obviously, is clear to everyone, is not the way tomorrow. What Mr Ahmetović was saying was in the direction yesterday. It has nothing to do with what we're doing today. You've heard the suggestions where we've tried to leave room to make a deal, and you've already decided on a deal, something you're not telling the truth. You've told a lot of lies these days, Mr Ahmetović. Many lies and we all listen to you with regard to certain things, as you have now told the truth. The RS government did what it did yesterday. What bothers you is that the RS government did, call it what you want. Pompous or impertinent. She did it yesterday. I saw from your discussion that you're not happy that she did it, that you'd be most pleased if you had proof that she didn't do it yesterday, so you'd say today, here's what the government didn't do yesterday. The RS government has done what it is responsible for. She's in charge of Srebrenica. She has an obligation to Srebrenica. And she began to fulfill her duties yesterday. In the right way, you call whatever you want. I consider it the right way. The SNSD MPs here want to meet their obligations under the Constitution. We're not any kabadiahs. We're not anarchists. We want to work in accordance with the procedure and in accordance with the positive regulations. And we're doing it the day before yesterday and today. And in this break, we offered some sort of arrangement towards that solution, that question. And if there were any instructions, there wouldn't be, right now, a break or anything. We have shown our will and in this proposal we see further the will to try to find an agreement. If we want to find a deal, then there's no room for these stories. Or if we say there's no room for a deal, then you have to let us talk too. That we have ours, too, if we don't have it tomorrow. I want her to have tomorrow, to have tomorrow is good for all of us. Like 73 SNSD steams, it's good for us, as soon as it's for us, it'll be good for you. And if we had that chance, we'd make a deal. I mean things like this, but if they have one right, then they should have one. I have an understanding, I've been patient with any discussion, of any grades until we're done. When we're done, everyone's entitled to their grade. We didn't finish, we didn't finish, Mr Ahmetović, we didn't finish, for your information, we offered a deal, we offered a proposal, we offered a proposal for Srebrenica. The proposal is measured by millions of marks. It's a measure of agreement, measured, but if you've ruled that deal, say you don't want a deal. Here, no problem, say you don't want any deal. You don't want any concession from us. When I say a concession to the deal, I don't mean a concession to the adoption of the Budget. Say it. If you're gonna get hit by our wish for a deal, if it hits you to come up with a deal in some way, tell us right away that we know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9790	Mr. Kalabić
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9791	Mr Ahmetović, I am finishing my chair. I think yours, with all due respect to you, we've known each other for a long time, if there was room for that discussion, was at some other time, but not in this time when we're really trying, we could judge this, the taster this morning this thing. I'd listen to you, too. The question is, would I react? But at this point when we talk, when we offer, when we try, if you want now, if this Parliament, let's say what someone has already said.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9792	I reminded you that we finished the debate. I, please, Mr Ahmetović, please, the debate on this is over. I just opened up a little dilemma, to see if we could finish the procedure today or leave a statement in the first reading for tomorrow. And nothing more. Only in that direction do I ask you to see the mood that it is, so we can make a decision. 10 minutes break, on the search for the SNSD Club. [[PAUZA]] Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9794	Our proposal is to postpone the debate for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9795	Please, if you haven't heard, here's Mr. Kalabić suggesting that we postpone the Budžet statement for tomorrow, and in the meantime that further consultations continue because according to the information I have, there is some chance that, uh, some agreement can be reached. 74 So we have a proposal to postpone tomorrow. Please, the Budget debate is over. Let's just talk about this thing. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9796	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, while we were patiently waiting for a break of 10 minutes or 600 seconds, and we see how long it lasted, I want to say on behalf of the Club, uh, that we insist that, although the debate is over, the public has the right to know the details because it is one of the most important things that this Parliament needs to adopt. In particular, the practice that would go beyond the work in the commission phase or the leprosy in front of the public, I, on behalf of the Club, reject and here I suggest that you do not continue as well, especially that these details of the solution that is being reached again speak of what compromises are going on, and I will talk about it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9797	Of course. Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Azra Hadžahmetović. So, but please, I ask you again, to bear in mind the fact that the discussion is concluded. So now we're talking about it, we have a proposal to plead tomorrow or today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9798	Here, I appreciate the attempt to reach some compromise solution within the deadlines foreseen for the adoption of the Budget. But I want to remind you of the following. We had a proposal that passed the commission phase, we had a report from the commission, we had a debate. We can plead today. So, all assumptions have been made. Given the possible outcome of that, I respect both the fact and the suggestion that you possibly try something by tomorrow. But here, I would suggest that we have a Budget Proposer here tomorrow. The Bureau was also empowered to propose to Budget, the Council of Ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers to be present here so that we could possibly get out of this situation that exceeds both business opportunities and procedural. I'm afraid if we just leave for tomorrow we'll be in the same situation as we are today. In this regard, I propose that the Budget promoters, together with the Council of Ministers, be present with the chairman at the time when we make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9799	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jašarević. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9800	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I think it's much more rational to delay the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9801	The debate is over, the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9802	A statement until the moment you tell us that an agreement has been reached. So it would be very risky for us to come back tomorrow and spend the day this day and I suggest that if you do in the morning, we come tomorrow afternoon or Saturday, but there's nothing missing Monday, if you reach an agreement tomorrow. At least that would partially repair the damage we've done ourselves today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9803	Thank you very much. I would have been, believe me, the happiest that I could have informed you that we had reached certain agreements, that is, agreements in relation to the amendments and what is before us. Is there any further? If there isn't... Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9804	In fact, basically, I'd like to support these two previous proposals, but with the fact that I'm disappointed, that after the debate that, in my opinion, was quite good and with a lot of good suggestions, we're actually going to make a very educated decision and that, regardless of whether or not the agreement was reached, or the agreement, on the exit from this situation, I don't think we're going to make a good budget. But here, in order not to open the debate any further, I would also like to join in and apostrophe the need for the presence of the Budgetor, it is the BiH Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9805	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9806	However, let me read the Commission's position on finance and budget. The Finance and Budget Commission, since some are not clear, has met and adopted this proposal with amendments to all of this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9807	Thank you. Sir, hold on, hold on, Mr. Kalabić. Is it a replica? He called before Mr. Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9808	Here, my suggestion is that if we don't keep working today, it won't be tomorrow, it'll be the day after tomorrow, 31 means this month. Since I doubt that by tomorrow, there may be time to agree all the views because the thing is really serious and we are ready to do, uh, day and night what would you say, that such an important document will be adopted, but maybe we should leave it for Saturday, Saturday, what does it matter, that it has a whole day to agree on such a very important issue and very important agenda points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9809	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9810	Mr. Chairman, let's just sort things out. There aren't any cooled-out shops, nor will anything be done past the Rules of Procedure. The Commission's position, we can do anything if we continue at this point, just approach the vote. So there's no one else here trying to create some kind of show, nothing else. He's trying to make a deal, and if there's no deal, we can end it now. So there's nothing special about it. And I want this attitude to support, I think, Mr. Jašarević or whoever already said it was acceptable for me to find a time when it would mean a continuation of the session, that we don't have to scold him for all these obligations, if we reach an agreement. And not to mention the session before, and there is, normally, a risk that, yes
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9811	Thank you very much. Here I conclude in some way these discussions on the matter of postponement, non-scheduling. So now we have to make a statement about Mr. Kalabić's proposal. So, the proposal is that today we do not declare the Bill on the Budget of the Institutions of BiH for the year 2007 in the first reading, but to do so tomorrow or another term that will be agreed by the College. Please make your point on this proposal. Vote now. 77 So with 25 votes for, 5 against, 7 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, we have reached the conclusion that today we do not declare ourselves in the first reading of the Bill on the Budget of the Institutions of BiH for 2007, and the term of the extension, or the statement of the College, will in the course of the day, or tonight. You'll be notified in good time. We'll see more, uh, by the end of the session whether, uh, maybe already, in some way, we'll figure it out, and we'll say it in time. So back to the agenda. On my record, point 12. Ad.12. Report on the participation of Armed Forces, Police and State Officers in Peace Support Operations for the period 01.03.2006 to 31.08.2006 is submitted to the Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH You've got the material, then, for this point. The Joint Defence and Security Committee in charge was considering the report yesterday. You have also received a report from the Commission and the Commission has proposed that we hold a single debate on this and on the next agenda. So, as you have seen from the report, the Commission proposes to the homes to adopt the report, to decide on justification, etc. as follows here. So, first of all, we need to make clear whether we are ready to conduct a single debate on the Report on the participation of the Armed Forces and on the Decision on the extension, and, of course, to declare ourselves on the Report, and particularly on the Decision. I don't think there's anything questionable about doing this the way the Commission has suggested. Do we agree that in a way like this, not to vote, uh, not to waste any time? Thank you very much. So, we lead, I agree that we are having a joint debate on the report on the participation of the Armed Forces and the police forces and the civil servants of BiH in operations, etc. and Decisions extending the mandate to the BiH Armed Forces Unit for the destruction of unexploded NUS funds in peace support operations, peace of the Iraqi Freedom, the applicant of the presidency. Here you go, Mr. Križanović. So I'm opening a debate on these two documents.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9813	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I, as a member of this Joint Defence and Security Commission, participated in the debate on these two documents and since I do not believe that what I was saying was highlighted, and I think it is important, I would like to say briefly here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9814	It doesn't sound good, Mr. Križanović. I guess the paper's on the microphone, so you can't hear it. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9815	May I suggest that this increase slightly, this, extend.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9816	I don't know how to increase, I'd increase.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9817	In fact, I'm going to say very briefly, very
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9818	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9819	Two very important things I think this Parliament should see.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9820	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9821	First, we here as Parliament need to accept one big mistake and a great responsibility of Parliament because we have allowed the Law to be broken on sending military and police forces to foreign missions, a peacekeeping mission. In accordance with Article 6 of that law, it is said that within 60 days of the Presidency's decision, this Parliament must be verified, otherwise the decision is not valid. We, therefore, have brought our unit to Iraq with this kind of behavior in one illegal state.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9822	May I have your attention, Mr. Suljkanović? Mr. Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9823	So she's illegally down there acting. Now, that's what we're explaining, you know, by being late in the constitution of power. And it's very easy to find it as if the delay in the constitution of the government is a fundamental disaster, you know, so we couldn't, it's a higher power, there's nothing we can do about it. For the credibility of this House, I ask the conclusion that it is recognised that there is a responsibility of this Parliament which is violated by this law. Why am I saying that? Because this parliament, in addition to its legislative functions, has a control function. In order to control the executive power, especially from the point of view of law enforcement, he must admit his mistake. Secondly, the Presidency's decision to extend the mandate says it is a 36-member unit. So, in the conclusions of the Report and of the Presidency and of the Council of Ministers, there is number 37 and, unfortunately, our report to the Commission stands for number 37. So that there may be no confusion, I ask 79 of these things to be removed and that it is known here that we are making a decision on the extension(?) mandate for 36 members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9824	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Any further reports? Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9825	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we Bosanac and Hercegovac in our own experience can best assess what help means in the troubles resulting from war conflicts and casualties. Starting with these own experiences and as a man and an MP, I support, therefore, every form of peacekeeping and humanitarian missions involving BiH institutions. For this reason, I will vote, therefore, for the report on the participation of the Armed Forces, police and civil servants of BiH in peace support operations. My support for peacekeeping missions involving BiH representatives does not rest, unfortunately, on BiH's legislative regulation because it is quite unarranged, but my personal support rests on three basic and generally recognised principles that a mission or operation is conducted under the direct auspices of the UN, that the mission enjoys the support of all parties in conflict, i.e. to exclude one side of conflict and that BiH citizens, members of the Peace Mission, are not exposed to direct dangers in their own lives. Starting from these principles as an MP for this home, I cannot support today's decision to extend the mandate of the BiH Armed Forces in an operation to support Iraq's freedom in Iraq. This is obviously about an operation that does not take place under the flag of the UN, but under the auspices of multinational forces. This is about a mission that does not enjoy the welcome of the conflicted parties in Iraq and is about a mission on the side of one side of the conflict. This mission, under the password of Iraq's freedom in Iraq every day, enjoys less and less support from Iraqi citizens and less support from citizens of countries carrying out multinational forces in Iraq. On a day-to-day basis in the countries of the multinational coalition, the pressures of citizens and the public change to withdraw from the Iraqi Freedom Mission in Iraq are growing because it is increasingly becoming the scene of a bloody national and religious conflict. In the end, we too must face the truth that BiH citizens, members of the operation in Iraq, are not safe and could be the target of an attack in which their lives are threatened. These are the reasons why I will not vote to extend the mandate of the Armed Forces Unit in an operation to support Iraq's freedom in Iraq. On the contrary, I think that the BiH presidency should urgently take steps to extract the BiH Armed Forces Unit from this operation, until the conditions for this mission to be a peace and humane mission are met, and the citizens of BiH, members of the operation, to be sure of their peacekeeping mission. Thank you very much. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9826	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Are there any more reported for discussion? If not, I'll conclude the debate on point 12 and point 13. So, as we agreed, we'll make a special statement. So now we're going back to point 12. A report on the participation of the Armed Forces, police and state officials of BiH in peace support operations for the period from 1.3.2006 to 31.8.2006, submitted by the Report, the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers. Please prepare to vote. So we're voting on the report. Vote now. So, with 29 votes for, without prejudice, 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I conclude that we adopted a report on the participation of the Armed Forces, police and state officials of BiH in peace support operations for the period from 1.3.2006 to 31.8.2006. Be understanding what I'm reading, reading about the stenograms and the records. So we move on to a plea, i.e. a confirmation of the decision to extend the mandate of the BiH Armed Forces Unit to destroy unexploded killings in peace-support operations of Iraqi Freedom, the applicant of the Presidency. So that's this point 13. Vote now. With 25 votes in favour of, 6 against, 7 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we have confirmed the Presidency's decision to extend the mandate of the BiH Armed Forces Unit to destroy unexploded NUS funds in peace-support operations Iraq's Freedom, whose proposing is the Presidency. In the light of this item of the agenda, we also have the conclusion proposed by the Commission: all BiH institutions whose obligations are clearly regulated by the relevant laws to respect clearly established deadlines and to provide timely reports and plans in the parliamentary procedure. So, a propo of what Mr. Križanović was talking about. If you understand this conclusion, I suggest we make a statement about this conclusion. Vote now. With 31 votes in favour, without prejudice, with five abstentions, enough entity majority, I also find that we have adopted this conclusion regarding confirming the Presidency's decision and the report we just adopted. We're moving on to point 14, yes, Mr. Križanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9828	I'm not going to be complicated by insisting on my proposal for a conclusion because you thought that you were this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9829	I really am if I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9830	However, the point is that Parliament, as I said, is sending an appeal to the institutions to comply with the legal deadlines. In this case, it is Parliament who did not respect that deadline (?). Here, just so you know, and I won't insist on that conclusion at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9831	I have to say, Mr. Križanović, you're right, but here's the thing, I hope we've committed ourselves, uh, and seriously committed ourselves to these things. So we move to point 14. Ad.14. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 1.3.2006 to 31.1.2007 You've got the materials. However, it has probably come to your attention that the materials are of a confidential nature, and I ask that we be obliged to protect the relevant data, and I ask everyone, except for the MPs and representatives of the Council of Ministers, to leave the room until this item of the agenda is completed. This requires both the law and the Rules of Procedure. So, until the moment of adoption of the report. Thank you very much. So we're going back to work. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Sadović in front of the ministry. Here you go, Mr. Sadović. To the pay phone, to the pay phone, Mr. Sadović. Here comes the Secretary of RES, needs, probably, to make some preliminary remarks. Isn't that right, Mr. Sadović?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9833	That's right. Thank you, chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, MPs in the House of Representatives, this is my first address to this high House, and I want to use it to try to clarify some things because I was with my assistant, Mr Vjekoslav Vuković, who, by the way, has given a detailed explanation yesterday by the President of the Commission for Auditing Citizenship, Naturalised Citizens of BiH, however, there are still some doubts, some doubt and some fears. I understand what the public has perceived so far and, therefore, if possible, I would like first of all to try to explain to those in this hall who are not clear to the end, and hopefully what I am about to say, in an appropriate way through the media 82, because there are many disinformations, there are a lot of media dust, and a little concrete results and real facts. Now I've just checked and none of the people, so none of the people who have so far been deprived of citizenship by the State Audit Commission have been expelled. Therefore, out of 400, about 400 people to whom the Commission took away citizenship, none of them were expelled from the country. So that's an important fact. Also, another important fact is that the vast majority of people deprived of citizenship, in fact, has nothing to do with BiH anymore. It is absolutely not in BiH anymore. In line with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, "the official messenger "number 82/05, citizenship of BiH ceases by taking away its day of delivery of the Commission's decision or the Council of Ministers, therefore, the person it refers to. If the address of the residence or place of residence of that person is unknown or cannot be established, BiH's citizenship shall cease on the day of publication of the notice of the decision of the Commission or of the Council of Ministers of BiH in "The Official Messenger". Therefore, the decision to confiscate citizenship is final and cannot be appealed against, but an administrative dispute can be initiated before the competent Court of BiH. So a dispute can be launched before the BiH Court of Justice. Oh, I mean, 100% of the cases that this variant happens. So, the people the Commission is taking away citizenship, they are instigating a dispute before the competent court of BiH. This is also an important fact. Abduction of citizenship does not mean an automatic banishment of the person from BiH. While proceedings are pending before the Court of BiH, the person cannot practically be expelled. The person, therefore, whose citizenship of BiH has ceased to be taken away from it, can submit a request for a stay in BiH, the Foreign Affairs Service. Therefore, the field centre where they have residents and the request will be resolved in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Movement and residence of foreigners and asylum. So if a person, and most of them, has a family, has the right to resolve BiH's stay on the basis of the fact that his family and children live in BiH. If the competent authority, it is the same important question, if the competent authority withdraws his personal documents, therefore, passport and ID card, the person who applied to the field office of the Foreign Affairs Office, and hence, that office, that service shall issue an appropriate certificate that, in fact, replaces personal documents and can resolve its status issues. Now let me go back to these cases that treat the issue of banishment. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum, a foreigner may be told a measure of exile from BiH and for the reason that the decision to withdraw or release from BiH's citizenship has become a force and has not reached residence in accordance with this law. So if, if the decision has become effective, he has not submitted to the field office of the Foreign Affairs Service an appropriate requirement for his stay to be resolved as a foreigner in BiH, then only then does this situation happen. However, the Service for Foreign Affairs makes a solution to the eviction, but that does not mean banishment again, because the person can again lodge a complaint with the Ministry of Security as a second-degree body within 15 days should therefore, within 15 days of the date of receipt of the solution. The final decision shall be carried out if the second-degree body adopts it. So there's another important fact. The provisions of the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum have also defined specific cases of expulsion, which is, for example, when 83 of the Council of Ministers of BiH can, on a reasoned proposal from the State Ministry or the competent MUP, by resolving in individual cases, adopt a Decision on the eviction of foreigners from BiH if it deems banishment necessary in the interests of public order or based on the reasons of national security. So, this banishment, based on the reason for the threat of national security, can't bring in anyone personally, it's done by the competent intelligence service. So, as far as the BiH Council of Ministers' decision is concerned, when it is made, it is finally and against the appeal cannot be made. So, at the end of this brief presentation, I want one more attempt to get closer to this matter to the MPs, that this country, and it's not particularly in my best interests, nor would I ever, dear gentlemen, wish that I would take away their father's children, take away their grandmother, as I had the chance to watch TV the other day where people, in my opinion, are wearing well-manipulated banners on which he writes, don't take away our grandmother, our father. Who'd want it normal? I still think of myself as a normal man, and I would never let it be done, and especially I would not allow it to be done under the law. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9834	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I think this has been useful. So, I'm opening a debate. Mr. Novaković checked in, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9835	I'm sorry, I just have one question, or I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9836	Here, the minister will be here, so
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9837	Or some dilemma. In fact, the minister said that there are no more BiH people on the list, so on this list, where citizenship has been taken away, that is one finding. And the second finding is that I can't banish myself until the court's decision is final. I don't know if I understood correctly, if, uh, there's no one to banish. So if there's no one here, then who are we banishing? Why is it important, then, when they can be expelled, if they're not there? I don't know if I understood it well, so I'd like the minister to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9838	Thank you, let's wait, let's see, there may be more questions, Mr. Minister, so about one expense they say. Here you go. Mr. Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9839	Here, I'll do it for you. When it comes to this report, my general assessment is that this report, unfortunately, has been done, is quite superficially drawn up. It's very inconclusive, they're very inconclusive in general of these arguments, the findings, so this report from this general section and the individual one can't really determine exactly what reasons these people on the list were to take away citizenship and, unfortunately, the minister said that in most cases they were instigating disputes. However, this review shows that in most cases administrative disputes have not been initiated. Therefore, when a new report is made for this rest of the person, it really needs to be presented in more detail, this one, and precisely for what reasons, whether it is for giving false testimony or for other reasons. Therefore
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9840	Mr. Minister, please listen.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9841	Therefore, indeed, this commission, in the follow-up to this report, needs to say these things in more detail, so that we can confidently conclude that it is really about people who were set up to take away citizenship. And that's the way to solve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9842	Thank you very much, Mr. Kadrić. Just, please, so, Mr. Bešlagić, so Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9843	In relation to certain debaters, I am satisfied with the report and I think that the commission that worked, that it had to have all these elements, and to us it seems to me that if someone wants to know exactly this information, then it can be addressed to the commission because it's classified material and I think in that part we should look at it that way. Yes, simply, because in the last term we insisted that this commission start working, I am pleased to say that we have received one material that says that around 780 has been treated around 716, means documentation. From what it's won, let's say taking away passport 367, and 349 left. What I'm interested in is a proposal for a conclusion that this commission continues to work. I'd like to know about the number of other people who need to be checked out, uh, getting asylum, or should I say citizenship? And what's very important here, we've noticed that almost all those who've received the seizure of citizenship, not according to this, have not complained. What's interesting is it? Is that why they left, what Novaković says, from BiH so they didn't get the documentation? Or are they in BiH, but they didn't complain? And until when will this process last, or when will it definitely have, I would say when do you expect this question to definitely be, here in Parliament, that we will consider it a final, final act? 85 That's why it would be good if we didn't ask for an answer today, but at one of the next sessions, we still had so many loose ends and so many cases. It is predicted that this work-intention committee that had this job will be completed by then and then and that then Parliament will definitely pass this law. But I have to point out that I'm satisfied, because this was the initiative of the last call and I think that, here, we're getting the first results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9844	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Dolić. There's Mr. Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9845	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I must say that in our rich tragic political scene, the naturalisation of foreign citizens and the suspicious acquisition of BiH citizenship take place of special interest. It seems to me that this State Commission report, after major political performances, for the first time allows for this issue instead of political one-sidedness, to speak concrete data and concrete facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9846	Please, a little patience and attention, to be heard.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9847	I would agree with predecessors who have said that the Commission probably has more detailed analytical data from which these summary data have been collected. Therefore, I personally give recognition to the members of the commission on professionally presented facts and rational conclusions, especially those in the context of the extension of the mandate to the Commission, the lighting of all illegally assigned citizenships and the specific delivery of reports with all relevant data to the BiH Prosecutor's Office for further treatment. The identification and lighting of all illegally acquired citizenships is necessary to finally put an end to this often politically manipulated issue. As much as it is necessary to put an end to this issue to the work of political stability, it is necessary to publicly state what motives have been driven by those who have been handing out citizenship with their hands and hats as if it were their private state. The matter would not be so serious and tragic that more terrorist crimes sites around the world did not leave fingerprints of naturalised citizens of BiH who, therefore, gained citizenship in an illegal manner. One who has in this way made it possible for BiH's promotion and reputation in the world to be responsible for this, because then what is this debate about? If the BiH prosecutor's office didn't have the last word, it wouldn't surprise me that many of the world's terrorists were traveling with bh in their terrorist campaigns. passport and bh. citizenship. I trust this commission to do its job professionally and there is, therefore, my support and support for the Democratic People's Community. Thank you. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9848	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Mr. Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9849	Dear President, I have prepared seven conclusions, a proposal for conclusions, but since they overlap
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9850	And the board proposed four.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9851	Yes, to overlap, I'll give up on six and I'll only propose one, and I'll deliver
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9852	I'm asking you to deliver it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9853	In writing. Let me read it quickly. It requires the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH to urgently analyse domestic members of the Commission and members of the Secretariat of the Commission with regard to exemptions in accordance with Article 35 to Article 40. Law on administrative procedure, "The Official Messenger of BiH No. 29/02 and 12/04" and to take appropriate measures in accordance with the law. One little clarification, I have knowledge that
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9854	There's a lot of clarification here, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9855	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9856	It's gonna take a lot of clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9857	It won't be necessary, here, it's short, here's a few words. I have learned that there are a number of members in the review committee, if that is correct, which is why this proposal is my conclusion. That it is located means a number of members who have issued the relevant documents which are subject to review. It's incompatible, and if there are any, it only needs to be in accordance with these two members that I've led here to take appropriate measures. So I can't do an object, and then I'll do an audit on the same case. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9858	Thank you. Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9859	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The first part of the discussion of the minister, Mr Sadović, can be supported, but, in the second part, I did not realize whether he was the BiH security minister or the humanitarian minister. So I understand kids who wear banners: “We don’t give our grandmother. ” And that makes sense, kids love parents, parents love kids the most. But unfortunately, my father's been dead since he was 73, but if he broke BiH's laws, take my grandmother and dad. So that would be the general conclusion. But what I've reported for, we'll draw countless conclusions here and hear all sorts of information. I ask the question, what are BiH's competent institutions doing to once stand by those people, not who came here illegally and acquired all this, but those people who approved this? So, who let something like this happen in BiH. Will anyone ever go public to say that the BiH Prosecutor's Office or competent institutions have filed charges against these people, and it is evident that these people have unwarrantedly issued those beliefs both on citizenship and passports and on various documents. So today we have a world mobster, Andrija Drašković, who has a BiH passport issued, I don't know in Livno, I don't know where, a personal ticket in Brcko, etc. And no one asks such questions, and again, BiH is being invoiced. So it's not these foreign citizens, today it's both a foreign citizen and Andrija Drašković, he's a Serbian citizen. But he's a classic mobster who's done a lot of evil to his country and now he's doing BiH. Is there any institution that we're fighting for today in Budget that we're really having salaries and someone said they don't have a lot of money, we're going to put us in a debate once to see who's been doing what they're doing and if they're doing good, we're going to suggest that they have salaries twice as big as MPs, but that they have a result. Like the Intelligence Security Service, if it locates the first Hague indictee, I'll be the first to argue that they have double salaries. What have they been doing so far? So here's a series of problems in one piece of information. That's why we can't accept the information no matter who's bothering them. We have to open the debate for sure once. Who lives here first? With what right? And indeed, those who have done the most damage to BiH, who have violated the Constitution and all possible laws to comply once. And building conclusions on each other, information, we don't contribute to anything. That's my proposal and this commission, of course, to keep working. I don't want any time to charge the minister and he really had good information. If there aren't any of those people here now, what are we going to do about them now, they're gone, they're gone. But somebody tell us if there are two. Nobody knows where they are, they don't have an address, there's nothing. And not to spread the debate, so the information can be accepted as information, but it's not complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9860	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. Are there any more reported? Is it a replica, sir? Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Bešlagić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9861	I absolutely agree with you, and that is why I say I support the report, because in point 4. The conclusion is: "The Commission is obliged to submit the Work Report to the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the assessment of the work of individual institutions and individuals working on the assignment of BiH citizenship and the vitalisation of legal measures." So basically covered by this point and you're quite right, but it's covered in point 5 and this Parliament can't call individuals, it's got to do by the Prosecutor's Office, and here I'm saying, that conclusion of yours here stands just maybe not so precise, but it's mandatory for the D.A. to take action against those who gave both their hands and their hats. I agree with you, too. Well, that's, don't ask me about the D.A.'s office. When we discuss the prosecution, we'll ask them if they've processed this. It's important for us to send it to the D.A.'s office, or to refer it to the D.A., and ask for a report on whether it's been processed. Because here when the names are seen who gave, who gave, then there won't be a big problem with the D.A.'s office asking them to ask who told you this, if you're in charge of this. I would, I say, accept your discussion, here in that conclusion it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9862	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Martin Raguž picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9863	I will only briefly intervene on this opinion on the report on the work of the State Commission, which was submitted by the Joint Commission, where the conclusions propose measures that we should basically support, but for the sake of correctness, here I have heard Mr Bešlagić, from the Report and these conclusions there are certain differences. So here, for example, point 3 here says: "The State Commission commits itself to delivering the report to the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the possible adoption of legislation on prescribed measures against individual individuals and institutions that have worked." If they were working, then there are legal measures, not possibly, and I think that this is eventually really deleted from Parliament's views when it comes to the legal order, must, must, must, delete from all these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9864	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. As far as I can tell, Mr. Jukić. Is there more? All right, Mr. Jukić has a replica, just a little patience, and Kadrić called in the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9865	Here, I'll do it very briefly. You want to do the replica before I do it or I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9866	Mr. Kadrić answered the line. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9867	Well, it's not about this report directly, but it's about this problem. So it is very interesting that someone should and should determine who it is, without any basis or valid basis, legal basis, has granted foreign citizens citizenship to BiH. At the same time, a very restrictive policy of granting BiH citizenship to foreigners is being implemented in BiH these years. Here is an example, I am by chance from the border part of BiH towards the Republic of Croatia and the first neighbouring municipality of the municipality of Posje is the municipality of Imotski, on the side, on the other side of the border, in the Republic of Croatia. And it's perfectly logical for people from that space to marry each other, and so on. And let's say those brides of ours who come across the border live for 5 years 10 have problems and these significant problems gain BiH citizenship even though they have a kind of valid basis. Lived in BiH for years have children, families, have problems getting citizenship. And someone was getting that citizenship without any basis. So, we sometimes act or some officials act to be very strict and overly strict in implementing legal regulations, while others at the same time very boldly violate these legal regulations and work on their own. And I think that this opinion of the competent Commission is correct with the need to be kept even more clearly and that those who have done wrong on this issue respond to the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9868	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. We still have Mr. Kadrić's report. Is there anyone else interested in the discussion? Thank you, Mr. Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9869	Here only for a short while, no matter how public there is here, but not to lead each other astray here, this discussion of Mr. Dolić, where he brings these assignments of these citizenships, as far as I understand, into a direct relationship with terrorism, so it turns out that those people, the authorities, the officials, who assigned them, signed those citizenship decisions, resulted in those people, those foreigners having to bring proof that they belong to a terrorist group, an organization, so that one of the conditions would be to get citizenship. Therefore, it really has nothing to do with this and therefore it is not necessary to present these things in such a way and to bring these people into contact with those who have granted these citizenships and persons who have been given that citizenship with terrorism.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9870	Thank you. Here, Mr. Dolić, is the replica also on the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9871	Just a sentence to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9872	Here, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9873	Yeah, I know, yeah, I know what I said. At least, uh, if Mr. Kadrić didn't hear well, that's his problem or if he didn't translate well, then that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9874	Thank you very much. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? If not, there is a Mr. Minister's need to give specific clarifications, answers, comments. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9875	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I thank first and foremost all the MPs who have had their own questions, expressed their desire and intention to clarify certain ambiguities. I will, of course, try to answer those questions as far as I know, if they think they haven't received a good answer I'll try to deliver an answer in writing. So, there was one question, am I, uh, a humanitarian minister? So, I'm not the minister of humanitarian affairs, but it's my duty to enforce the law and make sure I enforce the law. The second is, the whole other thing is whether, personally, I would like you and, uh, people to think of me as a humanist, I would like it personally, and in my life, I try to do that kind of thing, uh, I do. So this was about manipulating people, who can produce negative political consequences. So one of my intentions is to just try to prevent both media and any other manipulation of fate, with people's fates. That's actually what this is about. Sadly, a public opinion was created that someone in Bog’s justice is only persecuting humans because they are faiths and nations. And I assure you that's not true. There was one question, uh, what do we do if 80% of people aren't in BiH? So, simply the facts, all of our operational and other findings say that over 80% of the people the Commission has taken away from citizenship have not been staying in BiH for years, we don't have them. If I wanted to be completely pragmatic, we were solving a fictitious problem. But here, we've solved it, let it be fictitious, we've solved it, and it's good that we've solved it. Because tomorrow, in the future, someone with citizenship might be able to create some kind of problem. So that's the point of what we've been doing, and that's why I think the commission should continue and finish this job. The second question was, uh, why are there so few, uh, disputes in front of the court? So if 80% of the people are not in BiH, then they probably don't start the dispute because there's no interest. So he probably couldn't have gone from abroad to where he was staying or where he otherwise resolved his status to start the dispute, uh, yes, to remain his citizenship in BiH, because he was leaving and a long-term outbreak, etc. He's finally determined he doesn't want the citizenship of this country. I guess, uh, Mr. Novaković, that, uh, that's the reason. 91 And the third question I noticed was the same question as Mr. Novaković, so can the person not be expelled while the case is in court? In a practical sense, while the case is before the court, therefore, a person deprived of citizenship, and has launched a dispute before the court, practically, cannot be expelled. So, only by the justice of the court's verdict, the Foreign Office makes a solution to the banishment. And in the event, therefore, that the Foreign Office has made a solution to the eviction, and that a person has, therefore, been found to be a threat to national security by the competent service, the person shall be expelled by some kind of a shortened procedure. No complaints. Therefore, only if the person is actually found to be a threat to national security by the Intelligence Service is, therefore, expelled without the right to appeal. I think we're clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9876	Thank you very much. So here you have heard Mr. Minister. Is there any need for further comments? If not, I would like to conclude the debate, to remind you, therefore, we have a report from the Commission proposing that we accept the Report. And it suggests three more conclusions. Mr. Raguž intervened, although not in writing, but I think the intervention is correct. So he intervened in conclusion 3 to remove the word "eventually", because there is really no need if you look closely at this text in total. So we have these conclusions and we have another conclusion proposed by Mr. Okolić. So, let's take it in a row. First, I propose that we make a statement on the Report, in practical terms, on the adoption of the report, and then on the Commission's conclusions. I don't mind. So, here's the Šefik suggests, I think it's okay to make a statement on the report and the Commission's conclusions, along with this erasure of the word, possibly in point 3. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. We vote on the Report and the conclusions proposed by the Commission. So, with 36 votes to, 2 against, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we're in a relationship with point 14. Reports on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens of BiH adopted the Report and conclusions proposed by the Commission. We have an obligation to declare Mr. Okolić's proposal for a conclusion. Gordana, do you have this proposal? Mr. Okolić brought it, please, it's okay, it's okay. So, if there is a need for me to repeat more because of the minutes, therefore, Mr Okolić proposes an additional conclusion, that the State Commission should be ordered to review decisions on the naturalisation of foreign citizens in BiH, to urgently carry out an analysis of the domestic members of the Commission and of the members of the Commission's Secretariat as regards exemptions in accordance with the provisions of Articles 35 to 40. The Law on administrative procedure "Official Messenger" No. 29/02 and 12/04 and to take appropriate measures in accordance with the Law. Am I all right, Mr. Okolić, read this? So you understand the conclusion. 92 Can we make a statement about this conclusion? Please plead. Vote now. So I'm saying that with 26 votes in, 3 against, 8 abstentions, we've adopted the conclusion that I've just read. In this way we also finished work at point 14. Moving to point 15. Ad.15. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2005. It is, therefore, about reports for; - BiH State Service Agency, - BiH Foreign Investment Promotion Agency, - BiH Labour and Employment Agency, - BiH Statistics Agency, - BiH Archives, - BiH Central Bank, - BiH Civil Aviation Directorate, - BiH Civil Aviation Directorate, - BiH European Integration Directorate, - Directorate for Implementation of the CIPS project, - State Investigation and Protection Agency, - State Border Service, - BiH Return Fund, - BiH Council of Ministers General Secretariat, - The BiH Ministry of Human Rights, - Institute for Accreditation of BiH, - Institute for Standards, Measurement and Intellectual Property, - BiH Competition Council, - BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, - the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH and - the Ministry of Communications and Transport You also received a summary report from the Finance and Budget Commission with a proposal for conclusions and recommendations. Therefore, the audit reports were discussed by the competent financial and budgetary committee. It drew up this summary report on the revision of financial operations with a proposal for conclusions and recommendations, as a report on the review of the report on the audit carried out for each non-itituation in particular. So, all these materials you got. I'm opening a debate. Please, Mr. Bahtić has a need as president of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9878	Here I'm just going to say for a little while that we've held two committees on these institutions individually and then we're summed up, and we've adopted certain conclusions by supporting the work, so revisions for these institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9879	Of course, Parliament's work is now open, if there is anyone interested, is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9880	No, I mean that
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9881	No, I'm not. I forgot to find out that the restraining order had stopped.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9882	So we have each institution individually, we have shared with all the members of the Commission that we have processed, recorded everything on Parliament's recommendation. The audit has done its job correctly and has the support of the Commission. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9883	Thank you, Mr. Bahtić. I'm opening a debate. So you heard Mr. Bahtić's further explanation. Are there any reports? If he doesn't, I'm concluding a practical debate that hasn't even been discussed. We should now practically vote on the report of the institutions' audit with the Commission's summary report on finance and budget containing the conclusions and recommendations to be delivered naturally to the institutions to which they relate, for the realization of the conclusions and recommendations. I hope we understand each other until the end. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. So, with 28 votes for, 1 against, 6 abstentions, enough entity majority, I conclude that we adopted a report on the revision of the institutions that I just listed when I opened this item of the agenda with the Commission's summary statement of finance and the budget containing the conclusions and recommendations to be provided to the institutions to which the conclusions and recommendations are being realized within, therefore, points 15. Moving to point 16. Ad.16. Review of the candidate-ranking list for the selection of the auditor-general and vice-general auditor (Commission proposal for the selection of the auditor-general and vice-general) Let me remind you, therefore, in the last term of the Parliamentary Assembly, of course, in accordance with the Audit Law, a Commission has been established for the selection of the Auditor-General and two vice-general auditors-generals. Members from both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples were elected to the Commission. In accordance with the law, the Commission carried out the selection procedure and established the ranking list that you received. As materials for this point, they also provided you with complaints that followed, there was intervention of ombudusmen in terms of providing availability to information, etc. So, basically, we have one situation to treat these in, too, to bear in mind these objections that I am to you, which we have delivered to you in materials. We are at an extended college, to remind the colleagues, therefore, club presidents, we have agreed on an extended college to propose to the House that a new ad hoc commission be formed, which would be tasked with examining the justification of the complaints submitted, so if it is determined that there have been injuries to the procedure, to make corrections in that part and to submit a new ranking to Dom. I think this proposal is correct and that we can plead, that it will be the cleanest. If there are no other thoughts, I suggest we make a statement on this proposal. So there isn't. Vote now. So with 26 votes in favour, without votes and abstentions 8, we find that the predstavnički of Representatives has decided to form, in view of considering the ranking of candidates for the selection of the auditor-general and vice-general auditor, a new ad hoc commission which would be tasked with examining the justification of the complaints submitted, so if it is determined that there has been a breach of the procedure, that it is carrying out corrections in that part and that a new ranking list has been submitted to Dom. Also, the Extended College proposes candidates for this ad hoc commission to say, Halid Genjac, Vinko Zorić and Slavko Jovičić. I ask you to come forward with a proposal for the composition of this ad hoc commission. Vote now. With 27 votes for, with one against, five abstentions, enough entity majority, I find that we have chosen, established an ad hoc commission with the task of examining the justification of the complaints lodged on the ranking lists, so if it is found that there have been injuries to the procedure to be corrected in that part and to submit a new ranking list to Dom. In this way we have completed the work on the 16th point of the agenda. We're left with the 17th item of the agenda. So, Ad.17. Selection of delegations from the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to: (a) the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, (b) the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, (c) the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union, (d) the Central European Initiative (CEI) and (e) NATO.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9886	I'm on behalf of the club looking for a break for 10 minutes, so we can talk to the members of the college.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9887	Please, Mr. Novaković, a little attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9888	Because as a club, we had two suggestions. None of these two proposals are respected. Let's see the reasons. Is the reason for the criteria, the size of the club, the continuity, here's the quality, we'll take all of this as an argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9889	Okay, you're looking for a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9890	If we're not going to meet with kolegij, then I'm not asking.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9891	As far as I'm concerned, I don't mind meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9892	Well, then I'm asking for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9893	Thank you very much. So, break. [[PAUZA]] Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9895	I thank the members of the College. And we'd better get some things done at the stop and...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9896	May I have your attention and patience to bring this to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9897	I must conclude that this club and HDZ in 1990 proposed two different candidates in two different parliamentary delegations. None of these are respected, that Mr Raguž did not give consent nor who asked him to be in the Interparliamentary Union delegation, and following all of this, and since there is no criterion for selecting these members into delegations, Mr Raguž, i.e. here I, on behalf of the Club, am withdrawing his candidacy for this delegation in the Interparliamentary Union. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9898	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Here, you heard, is there more? Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9899	Thank you. I guess I'm in a session of the College in an extended composition for principle reasons, as you know, authorized the Extended College to execute the schedule.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9900	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9901	SDP representatives in these delegations. I'd, uh, still
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9902	Please, Mr. Izetbegović
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9903	I begged for one intervention, now
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9904	Mr. Čampara,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9905	And I'd suggest we make a replacement. So, instead of Professor Mirjana Malić from Parliament, who is now proposed in the Interparliamentary Union, we would like to enroll Denis Bećirović instead, and that Mrs Malić goes to the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9906	Instead of you
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9907	instead of Joza Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9908	Please, for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9909	Yes, it is. Here, I don't think I've broken much. We've just made some changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9910	Thank you. Is there any further? If not, we have a practical situation now to state the proposal of the Extended College with the following corrections. Mr. Martin Raguž's candidacy is withdrawn in the Interparliamentary Union. Also in the Interparliamentary Union, instead of Mirjana Malić, Mr Denis Bećirović goes, and when it comes to deputy members of the delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, instead of Mr Križanović, Mirjana Malić goes. Do we understand each other? So, I'm putting this motion to a vote. Vote now. So, with 28 votes for, 2 against, 4 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have elected members in the delegations as follows; a delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is proposed, i.e. members are elected; - Bakir Izetbegović, - Azra Hadžiahmetović, - Milica Marković and - Slavko Matić. Deputy members were elected; - Savo Erić, - Mirjana Malić, - Sefer Halilović. In a delegation to the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation; - Šemsudin Mehmedović. In a delegation to the Interparliamentary Union, they were elected; - Šefik Džaferović, - Azra Alajbegović, - Drago Kalabić, - Denis Bećirović and - Momčilo Novaković. With one place left empty. A delegation in the Central European Initiative was elected; - Mehmed Suljkanović and - Lazar Prodanović. In a delegation to NATO, they were elected; - Halid Genjac and - Milorad Živković. So this way we've exhausted the agenda and I'm concluding the debate today's 6th session. Just a moment more about agreeing to continue practically a session in terms of completing point 3. 99 We, as a College, have considered the variations tomorrow. Tomorrow we meet the House of Peoples and there is no complete readiness to proceed immediately tomorrow, except for these, so to speak, technical problems. We have practically failed to adopt today, or by not explaining today, the possibility that by the 31st and that theoretical opportunity until 31st to complete the budget procedure because the House of Nations has a session tomorrow and has not held a commission phase around the Budget, etc. And without the House of Nations, of course, the matter is not over. On Saturday, Sunday, Monday, etc. We've come into a situation to think about the following. We have a plenary session this 4th of this month, so Thursday, we have a plenary session for which the calls left today. So, a plenary session at 2:45 p.m., and in the wake of US Assistant Secretary of State's address on the subject of US policy on the Balkans. So we thought for rational reasons, keeping in mind that we can't get to the deadline just so we can do the job tonight, or tomorrow, to hold this session at 10:00 on the same day, and in a rational way, so to speak, to organize the work. That would be 4 o'clock. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, so it's my fault, uh, so it's Wednesday. Wednesday 4th of April at 10:00 p.m. I mean, here you go. Rajilic ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9911	I apologize,... (distant from microphone)... 11:00, we've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9912	Well, I don't mind if we agree that it'll be 11:00. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9913	I think we should hold a session on Tuesday 3. That's why I have my reasons. If that happens at 11:00 on Wednesday, I expect we won't finish, and since such an important person is talking to Parliament, to the Parliamentary Assembly and to one and another home, I'm afraid we're going to postpone it all together for Thursday, and that's already a big Thursday, and I don't think we should put ourselves in a position to
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9914	I assure you we'll end up either one way or another.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9915	Well, I have experience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9916	I assure you we'll end up either one way or another.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9917	I have experience. But if we don't finish Tuesday, then we move on Wednesday at 11:00 and we're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9918	Mr. Zorić, I assure you, we'll end up on Wednesday, either one way or another.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9919	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9920	Thanks anyway for the suggestion. She won't be, she won't be disturbed Thursday, be safe. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9921	This is no excuse not to hold the session 4. We were planning a big session of the Constitutional Commission. Calls went out four. There's the Law of Higher Education, all those laws that were returned from here. We will, of course, postpone the session
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9922	Let's adjust, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9923	No problem at all. However, I think it would be wise to discuss the budget as soon as possible. If you can
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9924	I tried to do it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9925	If you can do that, uh, tomorrow at 10:00, I think that would be best because I don't think we've wasted our time, or that we haven't wasted our time by the end of 31st, that we've adopted the Budget. Then let the House of People sit on Saturday. That's not the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9926	The home of the people is in session tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9927	Yeah, so let's sit down after us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9928	They've got commissions, they haven't even done a commission phase, they've got 40 agendas. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9929	Okay, here's what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9930	Here we suggest that it be 4 o'clock at 1100 o'clock. Can we agree not to vote? Thank you very much. I'm deciding that the session is four o'clock at 1100 o'clock. And another announcement, the 7th session will be April 12th. Calls are coming tomorrow. The session was completed at 1900 hours. 102 Gentlemen, honourable MPs and guests, the media, continue the work of the 6th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, as you know, we decided, in the follow-up to the 6th session, to continue the debate on item 3, so, the Bill on Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2007 and to remind you, we ended the debate in the first reading, so the debate on the principles on which the Budget rests and when we came to the moment when we were due to declare the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2007, we decided to postpone it. So here we have, in the meantime, had the opportunity and the opportunity to clarify things with each other, to bring our views closer, etc., I expect that today we will have this, but here, so I invite you to take your seats and prepare for the 2007 Budget Law vote. Please prepare to vote. I repeat again. We ended the debate and stopped before the vote. So, please prepare for the vote. Vote now. The law in first reading. Any objections to the vote? All right, all right. Vote now. So, I agree that with 23 votes for, 9 against, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, we adopted the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the international obligations of BiH in the first reading, within the third item of the agenda of the 6th session. So now we move on to another reading, because that's how we decided to work on this Budget, is based on the Commission's proposal. So now we are discussing the amendments and after the debate we are voting on the amendments. I'm opening a debate. There's no need to remind you who submitted all the amendments, but I'm opening the debate. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9932	Just one question, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure did the College decide to discuss second reading at the same session? Or does it take the House to decide whether to discuss another reading?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9933	So the College and the Enlargement College decided and decided to work on the Commission's recommendation. And Mr. Novaković, we've already solved this question before. I don't know why you're putting it back to square one. I don't mind. Here, let's take care of it. Here I am putting the initiative and the Commission's proposal to discuss the law at one session in both readings. Who's to this conclusion? Vote now. So, with 23 votes for, 5 against, 4 abstentions, enough entity majority, the House of Representatives has decided to discuss the Budget Law of BiH institutions for 2007 at a session in both readings. I hope there's no dilemma now, though, in my opinion, we've solved this, but no problem. We're going back to the amendment debate. Here you go. Are there any reports? If there are no reports, here, I am, please, Mr. Martin Raguž. Please, who else is reporting for an amendment debate? So we have Mr. Martin Raguž, Mr. Novaković, Mr. Lijanović, Mr. Halilović. Thank you very much. I hope this list doesn't expand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9934	More questions, Mr. President. So we have a report from the Commission, right? And we have this new amendment that we got.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9935	We also have new amendments, we have amendments that defend the previously submitted amendments to the Commission. So we have a whole set of amendments today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9936	Well, I'd like to, here, know what the situation is, since we didn't get all the information in due time, so maybe we should answer the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9937	I think you're absolutely right. Uh, I've been waiting for the debate, though, not to interfere with the debate, for the MPs to say so, but here, I'll be very happy.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9938	Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9939	So, in the meantime, since the interruption, that is, from the conclusion that we will continue on point 3 at today's session, we have carried out a series of consultations. I'm talking about the College, I'm talking about club presidents, I'm talking about the Presidency, I'm talking about the Ministry of Finance, I'm talking about the Council of Ministers, so the result of all these consultations is next. We have reached agreement, I am talking about the parliamentary majority, so we have reached agreement, I apologize to Mr Raguž, which is not timely informed. We have reached agreement to maintain the initial level of the proposed Budget, therefore, the one proposed by the BiH Presidency, and it has handled the Ministry of Finance, or the Council of Ministers, with one correction, with one correction, and it refers to support for the resolution of the situation in Srebrenica of 9,900,000 and something. Everything else for the parliamentary majority is not acceptable. Here, that's the shortest explanation. If there are any questions, I'm here. Thank you very much. Here you go, debate. Mr. Raguž, Mr. Zorić, i.e., sorry, Mr. Raguž, Mr. Halilović, Novaković, Halilović and Mr. Zorić. And Lijanović, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9940	I knew last time that around this schedule would happen, and that's why I said I was leaving my discussion for this moment, and I'm going to say very briefly, so, unfortunately, for the first time we've entered into the Commission with energy multiple clubs that a state-owned institution like the Return Fund has the resources and that it's meant to be put into a function that the return process that is at one stage when it really needs an injection and when international sources are in one descending path, it gets that impulse, and when we're able to accept it in some way all together, agree, here we see today that whoever negotiated is simply denying such an approach. This in no way raises the funds for Srebrenica, and I absolutely support this part, and I think it was logical that within what was involved for the Return Fund, it is a priority for Srebrenica and even in this amount, but to end it all this way, I really think that a bad message is to all returnees and all people who expected that BiH institutions can take responsibility for this process at some point. And I am sorry, really, and I am sorry that we are not as a Club consulted within this parliamentary majority because we would not give consent to this reduction and I must say, indeed, that it is mild to say that I am disappointed with this relationship with the issue of return, from those who had the mandate to put the Council of Ministers in office to realize the Budget that adopts this House, that is, this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9941	Mr. Novaković. Replica, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9942	Sleeping or asking, I don't know. Is that now, does that mean, what you chairmans have now brought out before Mr. Raguž that what the Commission was doing is not valid? I mean, I don't understand. I don't understand the Rules of Procedure anymore, here. The Commission has concluded something and suddenly someone behind the walls has concluded that it is no longer worth it. Or it's not worth the Rules of Procedure. What's not worth it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9943	So, I'm, I've been completely clear. Through counter-amendments that deny what was adopted on the Commission, we are getting into the situation that we are returning the Budget to its initial position and with this amendment that we have submitted, Mr Živković, Lozančić and I, we are returning to life this 9.900.00, related to Srebrenica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9944	This means that a representative should pray for Bog not to pass the amendment on to the Commission so that he can restore it, and those to whom he passes, someone wipes them out and cannot restore them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9945	It's possible according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9946	It's not possible. It is possible, Mr. Evo Lijanović renewed his amendment because he did not pass on to the Commission. Mine went unanimously, someone just went through it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9947	He is challenged, he is challenged by other amendments on the table and we must plead against them, Mr Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9948	Well, we have to, but until he's challenged, why do you say it's back to zero?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9949	Well, he'll be back at the final balance. Mr. Raguž asked me what the projection was. By voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9950	Can I, uh, say a few more sentences and I'll get back to you? 106
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9952	Like this, there was an amendment for bh. Publicly, the budget envisions 100,000 to maintain the World Cup, the first probably the only one in BiH. This was unanimously accepted by colleagues on the Commission, if there were 200 thousand, colleagues would unanimously accept and then someone seemed to have done no promotion of BiH, and the amendment deleted it. I am with the amendment's proposal to repeal the adopted amendments I, II, III, IV and V. He said he had nothing against the amendment, regardless of the amendment, seems to remain in force, to delete, to erase the amendment to give support to the World Cup with 100,000, therefore, truly symbolic. And I don't understand it anymore. The situation will remain such that it will give up the organisation. I have nothing more to say. Indeed, organisers cannot enter the risk, even though they have taken great risks and have been informed and passed by the Commission of the House of Representatives for Finance and Budget and this one, and here why not say that the BiH Presidency has taken over the main sponsorship over the championship. If it means 0 KM, then indeed, the organisers will give it up and let it be to us here and to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for honour.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9953	Has Options
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9954	No way. There's also a silver lining. I apologize to all the srebreničan and all the people in BiH. And we've given ours, we've also proposed an amendment to return, and we've blended into everything that was, when it was a story and about Srebrenica, and now there's opportunity. There are opportunities not to decide this house, but the Council of Ministers. I don't agree with that to live in suspense, but I want this home to be declared and I ask my colleague who filed that amendment to withdraw it simply. We can't behave like that here. There's a possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9955	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9956	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, part of the discussion, the first part of the discussion is quite like Mr Zorić's discussion. In fact, the Commission has also accepted an amendment that I have proposed, which concerns the 320,000-dollar parliamentary clubs that would be used to allow the signing of the memorndum, which means that all of us, therefore, have received the clubs to finance the offices. So, clubs out, uh, Sarajevo. It seems to me that the SNSD Club has proposed an amendment that cancels and I would pray, indeed, I don't see any reason for it, a team before this way doesn't touch the budget 107 framework, I don't see any reason why that amendment should withdraw and practically remain those funds. Otherwise, we don't have a chance to sign that memo, and all those conversations that have been so far don't make any sense. The second part of the discussion concerns the amendments I have proposed. And, I must say, it's not clear to me, this is where I've been listening to the last time I've been elaborated by some colleagues in favor of or against a budget like this, and it's not clear to me how it's possible to calculate all of this, and we don't know in this country how many people live, that we don't know what this country has, what material wealth, that we don't know how many people have left. Namely, where they are, therefore, in those areas where they have been avoided, etc. And it's not possible to do all of that without a census. And I guess we all know that. In particular, economic experts and the only policy makes the list not available and let's not have a list, but there are no serious intentions to resolve the issue in due course. Look, this story about how last year we put in those 500,000 on that quasi construction of Mr. Lagumdžija, which after the SNSD attributed to itself as a result of political action and with 5,000 thousand down, for some preparations of some projects that were never even made, and we'll see when we get the report, how much of these funds were spent last year, and then we'll see how serious that was and then it was said. This year shouldn't make sense. Although I can see that they make sense again and the same story is repeated again. What I expected in this budget was that it was clearly said that by projectioning this Council of Ministers, which I also said to the chairman of the Council of Ministers as an objection to his exposé, I planned to adopt in my term. A census law and a census. It's 2011. 2010 and 2010 respectively I guess that's the end line that we've had a chance to hear here several times and from representatives of the international community. And by their views, that's some extreme limit. And in order to do that, I guess we had to start a serious business in 2007 and secure funds for that in Budget. Unfortunately, there isn't and probably won't be. I have proposed, therefore, an amendment to prepare for these matters, and regarding a plan that would be submitted by the Statistics and Law Agency that we would adopt here, it sets out 3,000,000. Some of these assets were to go from the funds provided for by the Directorate for Direct Taxation and 1.500,000 from the funds for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, given that a few days ago the BiH Presidency discussed the need to rationalise the diplomatic consular network of BiH, which, of course, meant some reduction in the budget. About the administration of indirect taxation that we don't talk, how many times we've heard how certain savings must be made in that administration, etc. The second amendment is the amendment that I asked to give the Stay Association 120,000 marks for their work. In fact, we on that commission, on which I asked, had the opportunity for the Commission to adopt various and diverse amendments, and among other things, Mr Zorić would not be angry, and the amendment, which he was talking about. I thought there was a category of people in this society right now, and by the Dayton Agreement, these are people who want to stay where we are right now. Nobody was talking about them here. On the Commission itself, no one spoke, and a member of the Commission in front of the SDS, Mr Erić asked that we also support the 108 amendments, provided that he wrote and stayed there on return. So whoever wants to stay, has a program to deliver, so that on the basis of that program they can get funds. And whether they get them or not depends on the ministry and depends on the programs people offer. Since no one cares about that category, and no one cares about them except this association, I guess it's more important, here, or important, or whatever you want, that association gets those 120,000 so that, if nothing else, it can work with these people and make some programs that may one day be taken seriously and, uh, by the competent ministries. And finally, what I do not understand is that I do not understand that the Parliamentary Assembly does not want to be informed about the budget spending of the budget reserve. Look, I suggested we have that information three months ago. Not to take the Council of Ministers' right to decide on the budget reserve, but to be informed so that we know, in fact, we here, whether this budget reserve is spent on those already recorded here as users and in what amount or is spent on some who have not already budgeted the funds. It is obvious that the Commission did not consider it necessary to stand by the law, and here I have repeated that amendment and, please, I expect that we will support the amendment here at the session; the Council of Ministers delivers three months of information to the Parliamentary Assembly on the use of the budget reserve by users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9957	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Before that, there is Mr. Kriižanović, a business intervention. Well, then, Martin Raguž's business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9958	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it would be good, given the change and the Rules of Procedure, and I think we've had, say, insufficient explanations in the introduction of this vote. It would be good to clarify whether we covered the amendments adopted by the Commission in the first reading by voting for the Law, or whether the amendments adopted by the Commission were an integral part of the draft law adopted in the first reading. I think it would be very important because
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9959	They are Mr. Križanović, still, but now the amendment phase follows.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9960	So let's just figure it out. Therefore, the amendments adopted by the Commission have become an integral part of the proposal for a law adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9961	That's what we got for Mr. Križanović. We've received the report now, and then there's a debate on the amendments. Are you saying we've adopted the Budget already?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9962	Of course, if there is a debate on amendments that want to be defended again and that have arrived in the process in due time
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9963	However, to which amendments are also to be adopted on the Commission which are an integral part
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9964	Just to find out, therefore, that the amendments adopted by the Commission are an integral part of the proposal for a law adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9965	That's right. Thank you very much. Mr. Raguž, business question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9966	Well, on behalf of the Mixed Club and HDZ in 1990, I'm looking for a half-hour break to clarify these procedural matters and
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9967	No problem/talk in the same voice M. Raguž and B. Belkić/ No problem. A half-hour break at the request of the president of the HDZ Club 1990. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9970	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, we asked for a break simply to draw the line, to see where we are and what we are. 110 And now as I understand the Rules of Procedure and as I have consulted with the people responsible for respecting the Rules of Procedure, the people, that is, MPs who have had amendments and whose amendments have been accepted by the Commission, who are now challenged by this single amendment, are no longer in a position to submit amendments or to defend their amendment. And now imagine what that situation is, then. You have devoted your efforts, like many other MPs, to making adjustments to the budget in priorities important to this country, and now you are no longer able to decide at all what you've been working on for so long and put up with the effort. Not just me, but all the other MPs. So it's absurd. Against that absurdity, I'm expressing a protest here. The other thing, Mr. President, you won't mind me, I won't answer my word again, I haven't used it in a long time, I'll say some things about coming back. I think that I am obliged to say this because I have received letters from the Bishop's Conference to other institutions of returnees' associations, making no distinction either between any returnees or by any basis, national or regional, I have to say the following; this parliamentary assembly has adopted the BiH Strategy for the Implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and in this strategy, adopted further conclusions that say – that there is no way to limit the realisation of this job, but that further efforts should be made to create conditions for a sustainable return to BiH. The strategic objectives towards which additional donor funding should be provided have also been established. So if you need to put BiH in charge. To redistribute funds in the Joint Institutions' Budget, engage new sources of funding and everything else, to continue the process, and the assessment is that it cannot be completed before 2010 and the minimum is, after reforms, the introduction of VAT, an annual rate of 50,000 Marks in order to even talk about some process, the country's process, makes the country responsible for this issue. And now that we've made this effort, when everyone, more or less, has accepted most of the clubs and we've agreed that it's 24,000,000 plus Srebrenica, I don't need to repeat here that it's an absolute priority, nothing is being questioned, and when we have a consensus, this is how we question it. I can only express my dissatisfaction and be against this kind of approach and calculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9971	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. We are continuing to discuss the amendments. Mr. Lijanović, let Mr. Halilović prepare himself. And I don't have any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9972	I applied for a hearing, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9973	I thought, Mr. Zorić, you were already discussing. So, Mr. Zorić, Mr. Lagumdžija. Are there any more candidates to discuss amendments? Mr. Genjac, here's 111 and I'm signing up as the last one. Here, this is how we conclude the applications for the amendment debate. Here you go, Mr. Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9974	The esteemed chairman, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, chairing the previous session, said, in fact, one finding that the state is a bad manager. I agree with that finding, with the fact that we who sit here are making a state because we create means all state regulations and since we are obviously bad managers, then the state becomes a bad manager. Even though we're getting paid as good managers, and I believe that none of us would be willing to give up that salary, the only thing we have left to do is go from bad manager to good manager and then the state will be successful. I wanted to improve this budget that it also has a developmental character, not by submitting amendments so that someone would be against, so let's see, I don't know, who is against agriculture, who is for agriculture, but in fact I have submitted amendments to try to be adopted because it is necessary for BiH citizens, because it is necessary for farmers because it also supports over 60% of BiH citizens based on research conducted by the United States International Republican Institute of the United States, whose research you received at the previous session. And this is also part of the Agreement, which signed 7 political parties as programme targets for the next 4 years in which agriculture is one of the priorities, to significantly improve the situation. If we take the analysis, I'm part of that analysis and I've delivered it to you in materials along with my amendments. For the past 10 years, we have a deficit of over 50 billion marks, and if we consider that one job in BiH can cost 100,000 marks, then we have lost 500 thousand jobs in the last 10 years. Imagine, there have been 500 thousand jobs from BiH that will never return or have the opportunity to return, and if we had 500 thousand new jobs now, 500 people would stand up every morning and know where to go, compared to today's situation, which, when they get up, they don't know what to do by themselves. We would have 500 thousand new contributions in pension and pension funds and our pensioners would have twice as many pensions, our education funds, our budgets would have a lot more resources. To be even sadder, that deficit, it was almost 40% made with the countries of the former Yugoslavia with which we were once in the common state and I cannot accept the fact that they are so far smarter than us that they are essentially making profits for their countries so big over the backs of BiH citizens. The deficit of all 10 years in continuity is growing except for last year, which due to VAT is slightly reduced, but in this year we already have alarming data that in the first month of this year the deficit, compared to the first month of last year, increased by over 50%. We haven't gotten the data yet for the second month but it's a trend that says that still money, i.e. BiH jobs go outside even though our citizens are eager to expect them here. 112 I understand and expect what the Ministry of Finance says and maybe some of you, no money, and I can't spare the funds. Analysis shows quite the opposite. There's money in huge quantities. It's only a question of what this home wants to direct that money to, for which this home forgives money and for which it doesn't. I, as one symbol of forgiveness for the luxury money that we have least taxed in BiH in relation to the countries of the region, as well as the EU, took cigarettes. Today we have a situation, I bought a pack of cigarettes that is produced in our neighbouring Republic of Croatia and costs us 1 brand, and that same cigarette in Zagreb costs twice as much. I bought a cigarette coming from Austria that costs us 1.30 or 1.5 in Austria a few times more. We had a visit from Prime Minister Sanader a few days ago. I wish someone had asked him why he has bigger taxes on luxury, and why his government has been singled out for agriculture every year for over 500 million marks for 10 years, and I'd like someone in BiH, a colleague of us here or someone from the Council of Ministers, to explain why we forgive these cigarettes coming from other countries, so why do we give it to them through small taxes? Why do we offer our young at the same price as a liter of milk and a pack of cigarettes? And when they have that choice, then we know what they're going to define. They will opt for a pack of cigarettes, to probably comfort themselves, to have no perspective in the future. I think that we need to tax the luxury, and reduce the labour tax, introduce incentives, and thus change the direction in which we step hard forward, but we're not aware that we're ahead of a major break-in, and that kind of step forward leads us straight to that break-in. The CEFT Treaty was signed, meaning full liberalisation of free trade with countries in the region. We haven't even gotten it to these clubs yet, although it's supposed to be ratified in a month. I ask the question why 4 or 5 months after his signing, we don't have it so we can see what awaits us in the next period, and do we need to align our budget with what we signed in the area of free trade? I don't want to believe it, but the fact is, it's possible that we didn't even win it on purpose, that someone was obstructing it, because if we read what we signed and what free trade we advocate in the region, and when we see what our neighbors are giving out for incentives, we'd probably think differently, too. We want to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Sporuzum with the EU as soon as possible, which implies further liberalisation of trade with the EU, and we know that in the EU, and Mr Ren has recently told us, a market of 500 million inhabitants, their producers, supported by incentives from the EU budget over 40%, develop their brands, develop their products and create a single market economy, and we want to enter such competitive products into the game and we know what the result will be. It's going to be a similar result to letting one of us in the ring with Tajson and saying, "Here, it's free, beat it." So we can just run away.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9975	Mr. Lijanović, you only have 2-3 minutes, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9976	Thank you very much for reminding me. When we look at investments, what investments we have in BiH, we see that it has not been possible to hear for the last 10 years that someone invested in an orchard, in a vineyard, that someone made a farm or planted something somewhere. All we can see is that it's been invested in sales chains, in shopping malls where it's again in such a way that it wants to bring goods, sell here and make an even bigger deficit than we have today. When we look at the structure of bank money placements in BiH, then we see that in this structure agriculture is below 1% and that the rest is 90% and some percent are mostly trade. I understood the president's words that today there is no possibility of this amendment being supported by the parliamentary majority. And I'm going to suggest one conclusion after the amendment vote that at least we try to change something in the next period in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9977	Thank you, Mr. Ivanković. Mr. Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9978	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I will, I've put in a few amendments, I've been a little confused with this first reading, the second reading, but I hope it doesn't matter what I say here today. My first amendment refers to that, my proposal is to close the State Agency, the Regulatory Agency for Electricity, and that the funds that that agency spends are rerouted, or directed to return exiles to their homes, their hearths.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9979	Mr. Halilović, I must tell you that your amendments are untimely and will not be the subject of a plea. Of course, without the ambition to deny you what you have to say, but here's to know that he's not in good time under the Rules of Procedure and we're not going to make a statement about him.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9980	According to the Rules of Procedure, this, Mr. Chairman, under the Rules of Procedure, amendments may be submitted after the first reading, as referred to in Article 109, within 15 days. Of course you can, or you can't, you have most of them, so you can say about them
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9981	It's not about that. It's about the Rules of Procedure. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9982	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9983	It's not about the majority, not the majority, it's about the Rules of Procedure, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9984	It is about the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, after my first reading in 15 days, I have the opportunity to submit amendments. So, I just wanted to let you
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9985	I'm talking after the commission phase, but okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9986	If you wish to plead, you plead, if you will not.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9987	No, no, go ahead, you discuss it, and I've told you the attitude of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9988	I think that on this point, this situation is much more than clear because, if the Regulatory Agency spends about 2 million marks a year, that money could be very simple and very easily rerouted in support of return, and that the committee responsible for Parliament would take care of it, because it is because Parliament is the highest legislative authority in this country and I think it is the interest of all citizens, the price of electricity, and that could be resolved. The second amendment refers to, the proposal is to increase the budget by 400 million marks, KM. Because I've discussed it for a little bit last time, counting on my ability to say something more widely today. Economic experts estimate that the black market in BiH swallows between 5 billion and 6 billion annually, it is also confirmed in one or two of its statements by former Council of Ministers Chairman Adnan Terzić, and I think it would be correct and ambitious that this Council ofminsitarians and this Parliament draws itself to at least solve 10% of that black market that is consumed 5-6 billion times a year, i.e. 11 years after Dejton, it is not difficult to get a figure of how much money it is. It's a particularly difficult situation, I think it's on the oil market because it's oral. Bosnian, that is, the European standard is known to be 0,035 sulfur and it is known that oil in BiH is mainly imported from the territory of the former SFRY republics. It is also known that the refineries in both Croatia and Serbia, and in Slovenia, with a small exception of Copra and Rijeka, are not able to meet their technology with these standards and that, according to technology, they do not lag behind anything, i.e. nothing ahead of the refinery in the Bosnian Ship because finally, the Bosnian Ship, the refinery in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ship, was made the last. 115 Bosnia and Herzegovina has hollow borders and oil is imported from all sides. And one of the special Bosnian absurds is that quality control is not carried out at border crossings but is carried out, but oil is imported with papers brought from the importing countries, i.e. Serbia and Croatia. Serbia, Croatia and other countries. I don't think it's hard to figure out what quality oil is being imported here, and if oil control were to be introduced at the border crossings, I think the problem of oil quality would be largely solved. And if we just look at how and how the neighbouring countries have solved, above all, Serbia and Croatia import oil, then we will see that only the crude oil can be introduced in Serbia, which means that, control of the Panchev refinery, is absolutely controlled and there is no black market, or there is very little. In Croatia it is more liberal to import by law but by standards it is almost impossible to introduce oil in Croatia except for their refineries. Only BiH is a foreign country, or no one's country, and imports are imported into it, and imports are imported whoever they want and whatever they want. It is estimated that only the black market of oil consumes annually between a billion and 200 billion and 500 million a year, this, oil, and I think we should draw certain conclusions from this, and soon, the Bosnian Ship refinery will begin to work, so we could look for space to solve this issue a little more seriously. The third amendment refers to providing funding of 50,000 KM for the work of expert service of witches who found and missing donations that arrived in BiH from '96 to 2006. In fact, the commission formed by this Parliament, in which, in my memory, what I have managed to see from the press, was attended by Dr Slavo Kukić and Mr Gligorić, found that about 8 billion and 400 million KM were missing, and the Federal Commission found that about a billion and 360 million marks were missing in a very short time, a review... of the documentation. My proposal is to secure these funds and continue the work of this parliamentary commission. And the next set of amendments refers to the amount of funds to be provided for what is called, in Article 3, the budget-user income schedule, should be added to the seven cultural institutions that are the founder of BiH, the Earth Museum, the History Museum, the National Library, the Museum of Literature, the theatre, the Art Gallery, the Cinematheque and the Library for blind and impaired persons. In fact, not to explain further, all MPs have received these proposals, not to take the time, from the end of the war to today, these commissions are working in an illegal manner because in 2000, the Federal Government illegally appointed boards and directors, and since then, this Council of Ministers, this Parliament and this House has not dealt with this issue even though these boards are illegally working. Directors have been illegally appointed because the Federal Government has no authority over them and I ask that 4 million marks be assigned instead of 2 to them, and that the Council of Ministers, or the Minister of Resort, is dealing with and starting to deal with this issue. Thank you very much. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9989	Thank you very much, Mr. Halilović. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9990	I, unfortunately, have to talk about other people's amendments and to begin with, I would ask that after my debate or when you consider it appropriate, that the secretary of this house, Mrs Branka Todorović, should interpret Article 118, paragraph 1. So, can an amendment be submitted and I delete all the amendments and then the House has to declare it because it says here that amendments that cancel the amendments can be submitted? I interpret it as Mr Kalabić, or Club SNSD, has submitted five amendments, not one amendment. So that's the first one. The second thing I want to talk about is the lack of a Rules of Procedure that does not allow the applicants of amendments, whose amendments have passed in the commission phase, the renewal of these amendments, and those whose amendments have not passed, therefore, allowed. I wonder if it reflects the Committee on Finance and the budget of the parliamentary majority. I wonder why HDZ representatives are pushed from the parliamentary majority in 1990 and why no one consults them to submit this proposal we received on the bench today. And I'm just going to say a few more things, if I had talked to some MPs at the break now, so most of them supported and supported my amendment, and some said that the Council of Ministers from the Budget Reserve or the Budget Reserve would approve that same amount in order for the World Cup to be held in BiH. And I'm proposing, by amendment, that it be from the current reserve. What's the difference, I don't know? I have spoken with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Budget, all but one assistant support this amendment or I have misunderstood them. And I'll say, if it wasn't for that World Cup event about the team, the team would compete when the civilian, I'd like to be listened to by the representatives of the Council of Ministers,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9991	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9992	So, the Alliance and the national team will compete when the Ministry of Civil Affairs tenders so that they can go to competitions, including in BiH, so that they can participate in the world championship. And this is for the event, therefore, which puts the world championship in an unequal position in BiH, he will compete for a event representing BiH and for which the country's presidency has given consent to maintain itself and be the main sponsor. We want to compete on funds when it's called by the Ministry of Civil Affairs but for the needs of the national team. What we were looking for in the budget is to stand behind the BiH presidency's decision, of course, to stand financially. And I would like, if this amendment is to be rejected, that, then, individually, therefore, we vote on the amendment of the SNSD Club five times. 117 I will just point out that it is the World Cup of Boiling and that the renewed alliance has been in order since 2002: the 2003 bronze medal at the World Cup, 2005. Mediterranean games in Spanish silver, World Games in Duizburg gold, World Cup in Turin gold, silver, bronze, 2006. The European Championship in the River of Gold and Silver. So the bottles are played in six disciplines so we don't think we won all three medals, this one at one World Cup. It is also not about one player who was also a BiH athlete, three players won medals, and six players played in the semifinals. And then when we achieve success in one sport, then it wants to be diminished. We celebrate third places in the group to go to some world prevention, and we want world champions who want to compete for world champions, world suppliers and want to come to BiH, we do not want to go to BiH. Why is that? I really don't get it. I have pointed out in my amendment that both the BiH presidency representative and the Council of Ministers chairman himself have agreed to be on the Organising Committee of the Championships, and then to treat this amendment as we do, it is really not appropriate. Because I have to say that Mr Špirić is ready and from the very first said that he wants to be on that Organisational Committee, and he is vice president of the Organising Committee, and then suddenly the Council of Ministers or representatives of the Council of Ministers do not accept one amendment. I must tell you that, the World Organization has come to demand that the championship be extended by a quarter, so a quarter of the funds will be needed more than we predicted by the Budget, but we didn't increase it by amendment, but we'll try to find sponsors. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying because we were talking in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9993	May I have your patience and attention, the messenger speaks.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9994	Here, I'm done in half a minute. We were on time, I say, when I say to me, then I say to the organizers, talking to Mr. Terzić to project a budget for those funds. I'm particularly surprised they weren't foreseen because last year that event was in the budget. And then I really don't understand that, that one of these symbolic sums isn't, and when it was voted through the amendment phase on the commission, it was then annulled by one of these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9995	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9996	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. It's true, it's security, it's obviously party discipline on stage. I don't have a Council of Ministers here, unfortunately, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, it's common for Mr. Belkić,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9997	We called them, believe them. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9998	No, no. First of all, I have no doubt that you have done all the administrative things you should have done. This Mr. Špirić was the one who always objected as an MP for not having a Council of Ministers president at such sessions. True, at that time, it was another man, now it's the third. Unfortunately, I am, in particular, a little sorry about my colleague from the SDA, whose ministers and deputies have shown full patriotism and awareness of coming here today, I only see ministers and deputies from the SDA sitting here tomorrow with a pratriot and Bosnian foot, as people say, amendments given by Kalabić on behalf of the president of his party. So the Refugee Intervention Fund, the Bosnian Patriotic, will be abolished, and a return of 25 million additional will be abolished, same patriotic. And I'm a little sorry. In such pratrioticism and such a Bosnian bloc, we will not participate. Who does things like that. This budget is neither developmental nor social. It is administrative, it is seen by one light view, which is enough for you to know, for one seminar work. Foreign debt this year, for external debt service, we have a 25 million-less discharge than last year. It was supposed to be one, one chance, to take advantage of that arrival this year to give 25 million less. Every year we grow and grow commitments to, and this is the year when we're just going to rise a little above the water when it comes to 25 million, it's not a little bit. This year we have income, surplus income, visible in entities and the state due to the nature of VAT introduction. And that's the breath we won't have next year, and the experts know it very well. The two chances, unfortunately, are not used to this budget. First of all, I believe that what you have done now, or what seems to be going to do, will undo you and that great effort which, thanks to the President of the Commission who has been very, very, very much so, given that he has just started to do this job, without much experience, he has done a very good job and created an atmosphere on the Finance Commission in which, well, five, six amendments have reasonably been accepted. Today these amendments, patriotic and Bosnian, seem to be wiped out and multiplied by zero and will remain what is, so I think to everyone clearly that it has to be done, which is this symbolic 10 million for Srebrenica. And of course it should be supported and it's good that at least that's what the deal's about. But it wasn't supposed to be everything else, though, wiped out like it wasn't even there. I ask you once again to consider the amendments, which do not even violate this agreement of yours that you have made. The first amendment applies, which I have given, and to gross wages and fees, however, be reduced by a certain amount. The amendments I've given reduce the budget by 35 million, and they increase it by 36. So he's balanced with these amendments. The more gross wages and fees we have the increase that can't be justified given, so to speak, the number of people who are now going to be practically smaller, especially because those soldiers rightly pay off, the 1,640 soldiers are going to get, they have a special apanaze. Also, the fees and costs of the employees, the amendment of the second, which I have stated to be the least said, are inappropriate, to increase the costs of the staff by this budget, by 37%. 119 So it'll probably be easier to explain that increase in hot meals and stuff, right? Here it is, obviously the decisions were made before Budget was adopted. Also, I don't think there's any need, it doesn't violate your party agreement, reducing contract and other special services that have been reduced by 4 million. And which was part of the amendment adopted on the Commission. I therefore pray and agree with my colleague Zorić that one by one vote on Kalabic's amendments. Maybe, though, some things, here's to accepting. Cut what? When we agreed on the Commission that these contractual services, 4 million do not need to be reduced. I continue to think so, and therefore I would ask that we make it clear that the Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency, that it should be reduced, as through the items given in the amendments. I find that necessary. I also believe, and the amendment that I have presented on the reservation of funds for negotiations with the European Union, I here respect the Finance Ministry team, indeed, this, here I see, came in the strongest composition when we exclude the minister. This and
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u9999	He's away because of the illness in the family. I'm sorry, I missed the announcement.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10000	I'm sorry, I'm just praising the people who are here. I won't blame them, let them talk among themselves, because they
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10001	I'm talking about the minister, just additional information nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10002	Yeah, yeah. So I know that they have an answer to this, and the problem is that if the people of the Ministry of Finance were to come into a position at all, if they had the need to suit us, they would tell us that they were the demands they got. They are the wrong address when we ask them: Why did you have 3.5 million for negotiations with the European Union last year, and now you only have 300,000 marks? It's like we've given up on the European Union. They're not the address that needs to be done. That's why I'm sorry there's no Council of Ministers or at least the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I also ask that, in particular, I pray that the amendment that I have given here, as regards consulting obligations for Corridor Vc, you know that in Budget, there are only 180 thousand marks for project documentation, and that there are 10 million in special items, out-of-budgestically, conditionally speaking. And the amendment that says that, however, out of all the great commitment to Corridor Vc, we give one commitment to which there are funds here, especially if there is a reduction in wages and fees. And that's the amendment we're only asking for a minimum amount of 23 million to be invested in what's an increase, exactly, uh, activity in the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which is 120 in line with the Prime Minister's Expoze, with promises from the minister who told us that at least in that commission when we were. I also ask you to reconsider the amendment relating to the allocation of 21 million marks to the Ministry of Foreign Trade. In the item, the possibility of developing domestic production and stimulation. Namely, colleague Belkić, I apologize for a very short argument, namely, last year
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10003	I didn't say anything. I listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10004	Yes, so last year, the total of BiH banks were all given around by different calculations and estimates of between 1.5 billion and 2 billion funds were placed in loans, of which about half went into production. Which means it's placed somewhere around 700 million brand credits for production purposes. If 21 million were to be involved in the downing of interest by 2% just for production and this does not require any mechanism to have a special one. So, the bank's interest is 7%, here's another 2% of the budget is only for production, you don't need a mechanism. If the bank gives 7 give to our production, whether it's agriculture or pipes, broncho tubes, it doesn't matter what it's made, it just needs to be financed with, so it's, it's a very simple loan-settling mechanism. Only for production, because in the past year, only 100 million foreign investments came here in production, of which in RS 20 million, even they should push more, because the promises in RS are certainly very large. That it has started, and statistics say that last year there were 20 million investments in RS, concrete. The other thing is, there were 3 billion in the paper. But it really was 20 million. There's no reason not to accept such an amendment, there are resources for it that are not large. I'm using the argument because of the material that I got from all of you. From the materials of Duing Business in 2007 issued by the World Bank, which they sent us long ago, which is always waiting for us at the entrance. From Grog's initiatives, Transparens International, Aldija. So, NGOs that reveal hot water to us. And then it turns out they're smart, and we're fools. For they know it as it is, and we, as it is, do not know it. We know that, too. Only they have an alibi in us that we don't raise our hand for things that we know are right. By the way, this is Duing's business. We're 95 out of 170 countries. Last year we were 91, with this kind of administrative budget, we're going to fall even worse. Just to tell you that in this year's past Ghana, Kyrgyzstan and Macedonia, we are past Nepal, in a dead-end race for one place. I'm afraid with a budget like this, this report next year, I'd rather not look. It could be bad for us. Finally, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to try, Bosnian and patriotically consider Budget, the item. When constitutional amendments were adopted, those who were against constitutional amendments and those who were in favour agreed that the two ministries should immediately move to create constitutional assumptions, that is the Ministry of Agriculture, Science and Technology. There's one budget item here, amendment, think about it, please. We had a consensus on how to separate a million marks from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, to support 121 scientific and research work as a substitute for what, eventually, we will have. Only when we go, when we go, that's for sure. But there's no reason not to open that item now. And at the very end, my last two amendments, they don't ask for any expenditure, they're neither non-patriotic nor Bosnian-Herzegovina, against any nation, are aimed at an unnecessary administration that will bring us down on these lists yet. And these are the two amendments that limit the costs of employees, the employee, because, more or less, although we haven't, I'm sorry, let my colleague Bahtić correct me, we're on the commission, and that wasn't in the conclusion of the commission, but I'd like to just register, because they promised on the finance commission that they'd prepare us one information about costs that are unnecessary for a large number of commissions and, conditionally speaking, these compensations, which I see here to increase by 37%, and which are skillfully paid to people by registering a large number of people, so people don't get accepted, and then those who, as they do, work then get some compensation. And as a result, we have what we have. We have been promised that they will give us this information and my last two amendments are just talking about that we need at the adoption of the budget, and I repeat, it is not against your coalition agreement, it is not against your intrinsicities that you have had here, in the end it is in full agreement with what the Council of Ministers Chairman said to us, and I thank you, Mr. Belkić, and with sadness in my eyes I will watch the patriots today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10005	Just don't cry. This is Mr. Genjac. Replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10006	So, uh, to thank Professor Lagumdžija for his condolences, for his compassion for the SDA, uh, there's no need to, because we won't, as he said, be the feet of this amendment. All that we talked about this time and wanted to, uh, stay for the budget rebalancing, because Budget Proposer, the BiH presidency, didn't even suggest we do it this time. He said we should try to rebalance the budget with larger funds to get back, and he remains to see what remains, uh, of surplus funds, unallocated VAT funds, and we will, rest assured, continue to insist precisely on everything we have insisted on. So return, therefore, to build an information society etc. A lot of things we agree on with the SDP people. So, the interpretation of the finance minister was that we can't based on the assumption that there would be these surplus funds to submit such an amendment, he didn't support it. And the SNSD was against breaking through this particular amount of intervention and budget spending. We couldn't do it. All we could do was take down the Budget. And we wouldn't want to take on such a responsibility. But what we did, therefore, through what was expected of us, the BiH presidency, is to single out nearly 10 million for Srebrenica. There's still rebalancing, and we'll keep fighting. It's just that what I'd like to call on the government today, the representatives of the government who are here, don't really, uh, increase the warm meals, don't. I had chess families yesterday, military disabled, where some people with disabilities have 100 marks, 200 marks, a man with no legs, uh, can't get a job because of that, has some kind of 213 marks per month. Don't make warm meals bigger than their receipts. Because we can be surprised, there's already pressure in these, uh, groups, we can wonder what these people can do to us one day. That's it. Thank you. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10007	Thank you. I didn't even take this as a replica. Wait a minute. Don't explain. Mr. Lagumdžija, what did you want? Replica. Here you go. Mr. Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10008	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10009	And business goes before.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10010	Mr. Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10011	He's going after the Rules of Procedure before.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10012	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Article 69 says, in point 1. "Every MP or other participant in the House can speak when asked for and received a word from the chairman, but no longer than 10 minutes."
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10013	I was looking at the watch, you know, so somewhere I get eleven, twelve, I try as hard as I can, Mr. Novaković. Thanks for the intervention. Mr. Lagumdžija, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10014	I thank you, Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10015	Up to three minutes, up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10016	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10017	Until three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10018	Up to three minutes, great. So she's a very moving concern for this warm meal. You don't have to appeal to that. That you have the power to stop it. Don't appeal to the public. Stop it. Tell your ministers to change or change them. If they did, you can't do this, I mean sell us, is that what you're talking to me about, Mr. Secretary of Security or what? My finger is being waved at by the Minister of Security. He wants to say something.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10019	Don't threaten. Don't freak out. Mr. Lagumdžija was scared already.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10020	It's better for you, Mr. Minister, that you left today, this morning at eleven o'clock to listen to Dodik in Banja Luka, as he told the constables I wouldn't give you, I won't give you, there's nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10021	Mr. Lagumdžija, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10022	No. He has a right to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10023	Go back to your replica. Please, Mr. Lagumdžija. Put it on the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10024	So,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10025	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10026	So, sir,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10027	We've been patient so far, let's endure this, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10028	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, my amendments here have just gone on track to avoid a trap that we could avoid that we could rise to if we followed Mr. Izetbegović's logic. Our three first amendments are related
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10029	Don't go back to the amendments. You're on the line, Mr. 124.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10030	And no, because a man says he would increase it, but he can't because there's no income, so I'm just saying, to be clear, the amendments I've proposed exactly reduce the amounts that allow without a rebalance to have things for the things that you're refusing to do here today. So, support our amendments on wage reduction and compensation including a warm meal and then there will be money for these refugees and those people who
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10031	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10032	..didn't report for a discussion after the amendment was made.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10033	I didn't understand, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10034	I applied for a discussion after the amendment, and before the plea
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10035	And before the confession in the second reading. Well, please, you don't have to take an application. When we're done, uh, second reading, then we'll do it. I signed up for the discussion, I'll do it very briefly. I'm even on the verge of giving up, so I don't spread this replica further, needlessly. Mr. Minister, you insist, a few minutes around warm. I don't know what you have to do with a hot meal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10036	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, therefore, I did not lift my finger towards the leader of the opposition, but perhaps unconsciously, in his discussion, he threatened the minister of security, which is not a good message, so in that sense, perhaps the mutual threat was. So, look, this is the story of Budget and this call to patriotism, it's really more degutant than it has the right basics, although there are people who really have patriotism that measures money. I don't argue with that. But here, I wanted to make an explanation about warm meals. So in BiH, there are around 21,000 budget beneficiaries on this budget. The warm meal has not changed in the amount of 8 marks since 2000. And let's know that this warm meal is mostly used by soldiers, cops, so people who have relatively low average wages. It's meant for them. If you're interested, there's a warmer meal in the Federation than in the BiH state. That, therefore, motivated the Council of Ministers to make that kind of decision. As for at least what I know, as far as these EU negotiations are concerned, therefore, some half a million marks were actually spent, not 4 million as planned for the past year, which is why the reduction was carried out. It's reduced to a real number. Nothing else. So here, with all that kind of opposition story that I, therefore, understand very well, so be careful, you mentioned those warm meals. If you take a stenogram and see it was your story. So, warm meals are over 90% of soldiers, cops, so officials, people who really don't have high incomes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10037	Replica Mr. Halilović. Do you have any more information, Mr. Sadović? If you have one, just answer it. Here you go, Mr. Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10038	I'm going to brief Mr. Minister, just to let him know that opposition parties have not chosen the leader of the opposition, and it probably suits him some of what Mr. Lagmdži is saying, so he has already declared him the leader of the opposition. Mr. Lagumdžija is the leader of the main opposition party but is not the leader of the opposition and I ask you to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10039	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. Thank you. Here, I'll do it very briefly. So, absolutely understanding both the need and the right of people to present their intentions in the best possible way, so to speak, a clearer form of clarification of their amendments, and, of course, to present their intentions to the local public in the best possible way, I also very much respect the efforts of MPs and clubs and discussions, etc., therefore, none of the efforts I neither underestimate nor underestimate and fully understand. But we need to have understanding of the basic goal and of the basic work that we want to do here. We cannot escape the fact that BiH's state budget, which is still two times smaller at the moment, is still two times smaller than the part that is financed by the administration, the BiH institutions, is still two times smaller than the entity. A plane, for example, with a cantonal. So he's still far from the capacity to be both developmental and social, to solve a series of things that have been heard here, etc. So I am not contesting the absolute need for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina through certain functions and certain things to come into the position of the leader to solve certain things, but unfortunately we do not have such a situation at this time. I remind you of the circumstances under which we interrupted the session, or delayed our statement on the Budget. Under the circumstances when we had the insistence of political parties, i.e. clubs, etc. on its own amendments, referring to the relation to the overall budget. 126 Therefore, respecting this fact and responsibility, because this parliament has been brought into a very difficult situation and the Commission has been forced to respect the legal deadline that we have, however, in some ways broken down, was forced to propose a kind of a shortened procedure, a kind of special procedure for which, Mr Halilović, your amendments are not timely. So Parliament was in the situation in which it was found. We have postponed the plea precisely because we are trying to find a way to get to the Budget of the BiH State. I said what was the result of that alignment. The result of this alignment is, of course, with consultations and with the promoter and processor, to return Budget to the proposed level and increase it by 10,000 in favour of Srebrenica. In order to get to this, we need to carry out the technique, the vote, and I have made it clear and open at the request of Mr Raguž, what is the intention of the parliamentary majority. Of course, I apologize to Mr. Raguž, we haven't been able to get in touch with them, and I'm really sorry. So that's what I was talking about at the beginning. I, as the chairman of the College, am responsible, of course, with grief in your eyes, if you agree with Mr Lagumdžija, held consultations with the deputies, held consultations with the deputies and agreed to take place in accordance with Article 118, point 3, under b) etc. goes with the compromise amendment, etc. to get into life. All in order to bring in the Budget. Of course, there are completely different opinions, of course, that these procedures will be declared anti-patriotic, I, your right Mr. Lagumdžija to judge who is a patriot, who is not, I am not able or dared, but here, let it remain open, we will do what we intend, or what we have agreed, and the public will appreciate what we have done. Thank you very much. Is it a replica, Mr. Halilović? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10040	Mr. Chairman, if you've agreed to do some short procedure, and these amendments won't come into consideration, you should have informed us about it. Your call for the last session says: The adoption of the budget for 2007, first reading. By referring to Article 109, then, 15 days after that, we have the opportunity and the right to submit amendments, and you do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10041	Mr. Halilović, here's what I didn't want to open a further story. You were referring to Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure when you formulated the amendments. Then you have no balance, then you have asked some amendments, political views from this Parliament, etc., but we can talk about it, uh, you and I, very gladly. But believe me, if I didn't have business opportunities, I absolutely have no reason not to have them equal to the others, believe me. Trust me on this one. Thank you very much. Please, are there any more reported? There isn't. In conclusion, here you go, Mr. Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10042	I only insist on Article 109 because you said the first reading in the invitation. So, the invitation was to adopt the Budget, the first reading. You haven't informed us about it and, finally, you decide, you will.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10043	Well, college stays on what I told you about. So, I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a statement on the amendments. So we have a situation like this, please. Mr. Zorić, I've just concluded the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10044	I called the secretary of this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10045	I'm sorry. I'm on a few occasions, please. Well, here, look for a man. I don't know what the gentleman is asking.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10046	I asked you to give the interpretation, I think, 118th item first.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10047	And about the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10048	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10049	You're asking about every single one, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10050	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10051	Why not? There's no problem. Here, no problem, we'll vote on every single one. Any more interventions, any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate and I'm asking you to begin to make a statement on the amendments. We have the first group of amendments to the Commission's amendments, and they have been submitted by Mr Drago Kalabić on behalf of the SNSD Club and are contesting Amendments I, II, III, IV and V in the Commission Report and we also have Mr Novaković's amendment which also challenges Amendment v. ja don't know, I think, Mr Novakovic that you might, perhaps, 128 eventually and give up on your amendment for practical reasons because it is the same thing because it is the same thing. If you don't, if you insist, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10052	So I can quit if I vote the way Mr. Zorić suggested. So then I can give up because
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10053	Okay, well, here's what we told Mr. Novaković we'd vote in a way. Thank you very much. Here I find that Mr Novaković has given up Amendment V, his amendment challenging Amendment V of the Commission, on the grounds that we will vote individually on the amendments of the SNSD. So, please, let's get to the plea. Vote now, on an amendment to the SNSD that contests the amendment and the Commission. Mr Lagumdžija, I think you have a report from the Commission, you have amendments, I would ask you to put a little effort into seeing what this is all about. So, please, let us vote and don't, I'm really asking you to let me work. So again, I urge you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. We are voting on an amendment to the SNSD challenging the amendments and the Commission. Here, we'll vote again. Please prepare yourselves. Here, vote now. With 26 votes in favour of, 9 against, 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that an amendment of the SNSD to the amendment and the Commission has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on Amendment II of the SNSD, which contests Amendment II of the Commission. Please, here we are now voting, therefore, on the amendment of the SNSD to which Amendment II of the Commission is challenged. I'm sorry, is anyone looking? Is someone asking for a re-election? Well, come on, tell me to hear it. So help me. So I'll tell you, I'm telling you now. Please vote now. Therefore, with 25 votes for, 9 against, 3 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, a SNSD amendment challenging Amendment II of the Commission was also adopted. 129 Vote now, i.e. we are now voting for the SNSD amendment challenging Amendment III of the Commission. Vote now. Therefore, with 25 votes in favour of, 9 against, 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, a SNSD amendment challenging amendment III of the Commission was also adopted. We now need to vote on an amendment to the SNSD that contests Amendment IV of the Commission. Vote now. With 22 for, 24 against, with 1 abstention, and with a sufficient entity majority, I also find that the amendment of the SNSD to the Commission amendment IV has been adopted. And we have yet another amendment of the SNSD which repeals the amendment to the Commission. Vote now. With 27 votes for, 8 against, 2 abstentions, vote now. Repeat. Please, here's another vote. Amendment v.. dakle with 23 votes in favour of, 9 against, 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, we have adopted an amendment to the SNSD that contests amendment V of the Commission. That's how we ended up with the SNSD amendments. So, we have agreed and now we are going with the amendment of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić, who, and that amendment, you got on the bench. Please prepare yourselves. Please prepare, this is a corrective amendment, we're going with him. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. So, with 30 votes to, with 7 against, with no abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find amendments to Živković, Lozančić and Belkić have been adopted. Mr. Novaković has given up his amendment. We now have 13 amendments to Mr. Lagumdžija. Let's get the amendment for the amendment. Please put the amendments in front of you. Vote now. We vote on Amendment I. With nine votes for, 17 against, eight abstentions, the amendment did not receive the required majority. We're going to Amendment II to Mr. Lagumdjia. Vote now. Lunch. With eight votes to, 20 against, eight abstentions, neither did this amendment get a majority. We now have Amendment III. 130 vote now. With eight galls for, 24 against, four abstentions, also Amendment IV did not get the required majority. We're moving on to Amendment V. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10054	I'm four.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10055	Amendment V. Vote now. So with 11 votes for, 19 against and 6 abstentions, neither did this amendment get the necessary majority. We're moving on to Amdnamdn VI. I'm sorry, I skipped Amendment IV. So we return to Amendment IV in Article 3 of the figure for the BiH presidency is reduced by 600,000, so this is about Amendment IV. We vote on Amendment IV. Stand by. Vote now. With 12 votes for, 21 against, 4 abstentions, also Amendment IV did not get the required majority. We are moving on to an amendment VI statement. We've passed V, we're moving on to Amendment VI. Vote now. With 13 votes for, 20 against, 3 abstentions and amendment VI did not receive the required majority. We are moving on to Amendment VII. Vote now. With 10 votes for, 24 against and 3 abstentions, amendment VII also did not get the required majority. Moving to Amendment VIII. Vote now. With 11 votes to, 25 against, one abstention. Also, Amendment VIII (eight) did not receive the required majority. We move on to Amendment IX (nine). Vote now. With 11 votes to, 20 against, five abstentions. Amendment IX (nine) did not receive the required majority. 131 We move to Amendment X (ten). Vote now. With 12 votes to 21 against and four abstentions. And Amendment X (ten) also did not get the required majority. We move on to Amendment XI (11). Vote now. With 15 votes against 18, four abstentions. Amendment XI (event) is also not the required majority. We move to the Declaration on Amendment XII (12). Vote now. With nine votes to, 23 against, five abstentions. Amendment XII (twelve) also did not receive the required majority. And we are left with Amendment XIII. Vote now. With 10 votes to, 17 against, eight abstentions. Even Amendment XIII (13) did not receive the required majority. This is how we ended up with Mr. Lagumdžija's amendments. We are moving on to Mr. Jerka Ivankovića-Lijanović-Lianovic's amendments. So he has one amendment. Please prepare to vote. Vote, one amendment from Jerka Ivanković. Vote now. Any questions, please? Please let me say it again. We're voting on the amendment, I didn't vote because you asked what we voted on. Here, I'm coming back, I didn't vote at all. I'm going back and I'm saying we're voting on Mr. Jerka Ivanković's amendment. I hope you have that amendment. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 14 votes to, 17 against, six abstentions. I also find Mr Ivanković's amendment has not been supported. And we still have, please, a little patience, so we still have the amendment, please, a little attention. So we still have Mr. Novaković's amendment. Amendment I (one), therefore, population list. Please prepare to vote. Galsai now. So, with 11 votes to, 20 against, six abstentions. 132 Amendment I (one) to Mr Novaković was rejected. We move to Amendment II (two) of Mr Novaković. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 7 votes to, against 17 and abstention 2, abstention 2. Amendment II (two) to Mr Novaković was rejected. We move to Amendment III (three). Vote now. amandman III, Mr. Novaković. So, with a total of 5 for, 22 versus and 3 abstentions. Amendment III (three) to Mr Novaković was also rejected. So this is how we ended the amendment phase with the conclusion that we put all the amendments to the vote. So, we have requests from Mr. Genjac, I don't know if Mr. Genjac is still, whether Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, here is Mr. Zorić, excellent. Here you go, sir, so they asked to discuss before the second reading. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. Let Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared, of course Mr Zorić continues.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10056	I apologize for this little misunderstanding. After notification of the amendments
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10057	I'm asking you not to make me that kind of misunderstanding in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10058	We promise we won't. So, it is common and business-based that, before the budget statement on the Budget itself, it is also open to debate and respecting many of the facts that have been reasonably observed and very justified in terms of the nature of the budget proposed here and with regard to the availability of budgetary resources so far, I think that after a statement on the Budget itself, it would be very useful, meaningful and necessary to adopt several conclusions that reflect to a large extent some kind of nature, some kind of nature, a debate that was led about the Budget. And that is why I propose the following conclusions: one, therefore, that, after the adoption of the Budget statement, we also declare ourselves to the conclusions. First conclusion, proposal for a conclusion: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the Council of Ministers to prepare for an urgent parliamentary procedure, and to submit a draft law on salaries in BiH institutions no later than 45 days. 133 Explanation: Much is said in the context of this issue and in the debate, the existing legislation, decisions, acts, sublegal, legal, in terms of wage regulation, I think that it is largely suitable for irrationality and, may be said free, wasteful in terms of the availability of budgetary resources in institutions intended for wages and income. Second conclusion: 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires that the Council of Ministers prepare and, together with the 2006 Budget Report, to discuss the Parliamentary Assembly of Delivery for all committees formed by the Council of Ministers in the previous meeting, the Report on the reasons for their formation and the costs for their work. This is already mentioned in the discussion, it is closely related to the issue of the Law on Payments in BiH Institutions. The existing, existing rasomones, an existing set of regulations seem to favour very often resorting to the formation of commissions, and there are allegations that these commissions do very often work in the description of members of the Council of Ministers. Point three, i.e. Conclusion three: 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requests that the Council of Ministers prepare and, together with the Budget Implementation Report, submit a plan to the Parliamentary Assembly for rationalisation and reduction of the cost of business space leases for the work of BiH institutions. Reason: Over the last year, spent somewhere around 16, 17 million for the needs of the budget's rents, which was proposed, is forecasting around 22 million, so these costs are growing. We have, uh, a record announcement, i.e. the fact that the Council of Ministers' building is being refurbished during the year, despite these facts, is being announced by an increase in the cost of leases and rents. I think that there is plenty of room for rationalisation and I think it has been very useful for the Parliamentary Assembly to consider, and in the context of a report drawn up by the Council of Ministers on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10059	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I think, I still think we should vote first, finish, because we've finished the amendment debate, and after the vote, come up with conclusions and ideas. And I ask the others to refrain, after the vote, come out with conclusions and I will not give another word. Please prepare to plead on the Budget, the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions for 2007, in a second reading. Please vote now. We'll have to do it again, we'll have to do it again. Please don't bother me, let me work. So get ready to vote. Vote now. Mr. Sadović, sit in your seat, please. Well, you're distracting me, believe me. Sit in your seat. It's not a problem. You haven't made a mistake, you've got a voice on your mind. With 23 votes for, 12 against, two abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. 134 I agree that we adopted the Budget, which is the Bill on the Budget of the Institutions of BiH for 2007 and in the second reading, of course, with that amendment, along with those amendments that we adopted. Now, here are your initiatives, your conclusions. Mr. Genjac, hand it over so we can multiply and share with the MPs. Who has a proposal to conclude that in writing it is delivered. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mr Zorić, Mr Lagumdžija. Please, there's Mr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10060	Did I get the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10061	Yes, you are Azra. May I have your attention, please? We've been listening so far. Let's listen to each other now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10062	Dear members of the College, the Council of Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament and guests. Allow me to, initiated by the way we held the debate
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10063	Please, Aljoša, get out of the O.R., get out of the O.R., and all those who are out of business, go to work, service, and so forth. Here you go, Azra.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10064	Initiated by the way of discussion and content, the debate on amendments and the procedure for adoption of the budget, in particular by dynamics and the press of time, i.e. the final dates which, among other things, are regulated by the relevant acts relating to the budget adoption procedure, and also by taking into account the fact that we have had a new Council of Ministers meeting, among other things, a new finance minister who has already made a proposal, i.e. at one stage even a draft of a law that passed some procedures and acts before he entered office. I would suggest that the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Council of Ministers, undertake one conclusion that, within the appropriate reasonable time limit, we, during, or at the end of the current year, prepare the Budget proposal for the following year. So, to begin the procedure on time and not to work, or, to not adopt the amendments, we are having a debate under the press of time and obligation to adopt the Budget in the structure as proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10065	Please deliver it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10066	That's one thing. So, that's one general conclusion and suggestion, I think you'd like me to.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10067	Please, Mr. Džaferović, just a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10068	I think the Council of Ministers, or anyone who works on Budget issues, too, would make this easier for the job, not to say that it would allow Parliament to make, in a way, and respect some suggestions. On the other hand, it adopts amendments that would improve, let's say, and the structure of the budget in line with both the commitment and work of this Parliament and the Council of Ministers. The second reason is, I suggest that fellow Genjac turn what he suggested as conclusions into parliamentary initiatives. Because it concerns general matters of improving the work of both the Council of Ministers and state institutions unrelated to the adoption of the Budget. In particular, on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, concerning the Budget, I suggest that the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, after the 2006 Budget Implementation Report, "so, at the end of the sixth month of this year, consider the possibility that, through the rebalancing of the budget, the item relating to the implementation of the Programme of Refugees and Displaced Persons. The correction would refer to the Special Purpose Programme, i.e. the Return Fund, and the amount would be determined on the basis of the item: transfer of revenue from the previous year and respecting amendment V adopted by the Finance and Budget Commission, when proposed or adopted by the Budget. I will present this conclusion to the members of the College, or I suggest that this conclusion be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10069	Mr. Zorić. Please, who has initiatives and conclusions, let him immediately hand them over to multiply, so we'll take a break of 10 minutes to look at the conclusions and then we'll continue to make a statement. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10070	I thought, Mr. Chairman, that you would suggest this conclusion which I will now, because you told me at the time of my debate that there was a way. You may have a better one, but I suggest we reach a conclusion: To oblige the Council of Ministers to comply with Amendment IV (four) of the Finance and Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10071	Thank you for delivering the proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10072	So I think it's very short, if you can, I don't have a computer, I don't have a place to write it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10073	Here's the service, sekretarijat, no problem, we'll take a break for 10 minutes, Mr. Zorić, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10074	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10075	Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10076	Mr. Chairman, we who have been here a little longer know very well, and this is done in the entity assemblies and cantonal, when some parliamentary majority adopt the Budget beyond their conscience, then it usually comes to conclusions that practically mean throwing dust into their eyes first to themselves and then to the local public. For these reasons, since you have, we have all received in preparation for taking over the work of MPs one fat table, a book of conclusions adopted by Parliament which is not realised. If we want this to be serious, I know, this is now all a conscience wash and an explanation why we agreed to something that we promised people it wouldn't be like that. I therefore propose that we support all these conclusions, all on one condition, that they be binding on this Council of Ministers and the competent ministers who will be replaced, unless these conclusions are carried out. In other words, I would, as you would say, what is correct, that conclusion of the previous, so I would ask you, before adopting these conclusions, to set a conclusion that reads: Parliament's assembly adopts conclusions, these all agree, which are binding on the Council of Ministers and individual ministers in the given deadlines, after which they are expected to resign in order not to be replaced due to the possible failure of obligations under the following conclusions. In other words, let's show if, therefore, these are the conclusions for the right ones. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10077	All right, Mr. Lagumdžija, just deliver them, we heard what you said. Thank you very much. Replica, business intervention. Azra.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10078	Thank you. Allow me, as someone who understands what the Budgets mean and is accurate, to remind you that a report on the execution of the Budget is expected at the end of June of the month, correct me, at the end of the sixth month, when we will know exactly how much unspent funds remain from the previous year, transferred funds, and when, possibly, with that basis, we will be able to carry out some of the corrections relating to Members' proposals in this House. In this regard, there was also a proposal, a colleague of Lagumdžija, not washing our consciences, but when we know the exact amount, that we have exactly how much resources we have in Budget, we also propose possible corrections or rebalancing of the Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10079	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković, what about you? We have already been reported for discussion, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10080	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club for half an hour. How would we
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10081	Will you let the debaters finish, possibly hand over the initiatives, and we'll take a break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10082	Of course, of course, after taking the initiative, I'm asking for half an hour's break, so that means we're going to
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10083	I'm the one who announced it. Just let these people who have initiatives say, so we can multiply, divide and continue our work on the break. Here you go, Mr. Živković, and I'll conclude, here you go, Mr. Lijanović. Is there anyone else with initiatives? Thank you. Mr. Živković, then Mr. Lijanović. You want to go first, Mr. Lijanović? Here, Mr. Živković. Please submit your initiatives here to multiply, divide and to know what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10084	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, Council of Ministers. Namely, we received a letter from the chiefs and president of the Srebrenica Municipality on 30.03.2007, saying: "Yes, please, in order to support the process of returning and building infrastructure and employment, support the amendments for Srebrenica, which provides for 10 million, we agree that the implementation of spent funds is followed by a committee composed of representatives of the ministries or clubs of the Srebrenica Municipality, with respect to the commission as proposed by the RS government." 138 In signature, the head of the Municipality of Srebrenica, Abdurahman Malkić and the president of the Assembly of the Municipality, Radomir, Dr Pavlović. Here, in agreement with this, we have made one conclusion saying: The chairman of the MPs' Club at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge, that, in co-operation with the Council of Ministers of BiH and representatives of the Srebrenica Municipality, the way of spending and intervention means for the resolution of the situation in Srebrenica from the budget reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10085	Please submit that conclusion. And there's Mr. Lijanović still.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10086	Dear Chairman, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. Since the budget was adopted and its structure essentially says it is not in BiH's interest but in the interests of neighbouring countries and others. So that wouldn't take long, would I suggest one conclusion? Should I hand it over in writing or read it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10087	Yeah, yeah, yeah, but you can say it for the public. That the public knows what anybody's suggesting, right? Don't miss it either, nobody misses it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10088	Okay. Thank you very much. It undertakes the Council of Ministers to consider, together with the Committees of the House of Representatives, taxes under its jurisdiction and to increase them to luxury goods, taking into account the protection of domestic production, thereby providing for the rebalancing of the Budget and the budget for the following year. For full interest subsidies and banking costs, for funds that are placed
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10089	Mr. Zorić, please, it's going to be a quick break. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10090	For funds placed in agriculture and the food industry that are 100% owned by BiH citizens and other incentives for agriculture and food industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10091	Thank you, give it up. Here, break for half an hour. In the meantime, we will multiply all these initiatives and conclusions, after the break we will have statements. [[PAUZA]] ...to continue the session. Let me remind you, we took a break to multiply these proposals of conclusions, divide them and make them known, and thus end the continuation of today's session. I hope you have received the proposal for the conclusions of Mr Genjac, the proposal of Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Vink Zorić, the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija and the proposal for the conclusion of Milorad Živković and the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Jerka Ivanković. I hope I've read it all. Did you get these conclusions? Can we go to the conclusion statement?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10093	Can I say something about conclusions, if you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10094	Sure, sure, but here, I'd pray over time we're limited. As to the conclusions, here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10095	Here it is, just about the conclusions. It's only now that we've received these conclusions in writing. I think that, as I said last time, there was a lot of good debate, a lot of good proposals and that only some conclusions, especially what Mrs. Azra predicted, might not indicate all the debate that was held here in Parliament, so that it might be a better compromise conclusion, of course, if Mrs. Hadžiahmetović agrees, that the conclusion is that the Council of Ministers is in charge that, in line with the debate on the Budget, at the 6th session of the BiH Parliamentary House and the proposed amendments, the possibility of adopting a rebalancing of BiH's 2007 budget. This would, therefore, not only what is proposed and proposed by the Party for BiH but also what they have proposed, I would say, and good amendments from the SDP and others here in Parliament, the Council of Ministers would consider and consider the possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10096	Of course, I'm obliged to say when we came forward about the first reading of the Budget, there you saw in the Commission report a number of conclusions that were absolutely not controversial and I think we also supported it by adopting this Budget in the first reading. So, here you go. Azra and Momo. Please, we need time to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10097	I know everything, so I'm taking care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10098	I'm talking to Mr. Novaković and the others who are already answering. We've opened the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10099	I understand fellow Živković, to formulate, that is, propose this conclusion. However, I'll just remind you. We don't have to suggest to the Council of Ministers to consider the possibility of rebalancing. This parliament may ask the Council of Ministers to rebalance Budget. I'm not talking about this right now. I'm talking about the general. Therefore, I would not go towards the Council of Ministers with the initiative to possibly consider the possibility. Even more so, because of the fact that the Budget Implementation Report will only be in the middle of the year, we can oblige the Council of Ministers to make a proposal for a rebalancing of the Budget. Which, of course, would also include considering both existing and some new amendments, etc. Of course, for the Council of Ministers, it can be a guideline, in general, amendments proposed in the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10100	So, you're staying on your suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10101	Well, I don't think it's a good formulation, or our relationship with the Council of Ministers, that the Council might consider the possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10102	Please take
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10103	We can even initiate the Council of Ministers to rebalance Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10104	So we had the opportunity and the space to propose initiatives, or conclusions. Most of the time, everyone suggested conclusions and I have them on the table. They're split and I don't see what we're spreading right now. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. 141
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10105	So I guess we have very little time, at least some conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10106	If you wish, we can postpone this statement of these conclusions for the next session. Maybe that's for the best.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10107	I don't know, I want to comment on one conclusion, and now you do whatever you want. If you want, we can leave for the next session as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-29-0.u10108	I'd like to ask Mr. Novaković to leave this for the next session. You'll have a chance to discuss it. Is there any mood for us to discuss this at the next session? Would you like to make a statement about these conclusions? Please make a statement. Whether we are to make the proposed conclusions, there is no enlargement, there is no further initiative, but what we have proposed, and that is to be said at the next session, so that people can read and see what it is. There are parallel initiatives, parallel conclusions, repeated etc. Please, who wants us to postpone this for the next session? Vote now. So it'll be before the agenda next session. So, with 26 votes for, 8 against, 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, we decided to propose the conclusions they submitted: Mr Halid Genjac, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mr Vinko Zorić, Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija, Mr Milorad Živković and Mr Jerko Ivanković, we are considering the next, 7th session, scheduled for 12 April this year. I'm asking you to be in the O.R. at half past three, because that's how the Protocol announced that you need to be at half past three in the O.R. The session was completed at 14:15 p.m.
