ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, delegates, present officials of the Council of Ministers if there are any, international communities, respected media representatives, I welcome you all. I am opening the first extraordinary session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I thank all the delegates who responded to this extraordinary session in such a short time. Today there are 12 delegates, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, four from the Croatian people and three from the Serbian people. Mrs Branko Zrno, Branko Šaraba, Drago Ljubičić was justified by their absence because they were officially prevented from attending today's session. However, before the beginning of the session, I would like to invite all delegates to pay tribute to the tragically deceased Ivo Lozančić for a minute of silence. May it be eternal glory. For an extraordinary session, I suggest the following
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-0.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear friends of the envoys and all present at this session today, I would either have or if we felt there was a need to adopt one conclusion. We work material, i.e. amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, have not been obtained in Croatian. And for these reasons, if the conclusion is to be adopted, this text must be made in Croatian prior to publication.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-0.u6	Okay, thank you. I don't think there's anyone here, that we all agree on this conclusion. Here you go, Mr. Ivanić. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-0.u7	The same goes for MPs from the Serb people. And we didn't get it in Cyrillic and Serbian, so we expect it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-0.u8	Okay. So here's what we're going to do with one conclusion... is someone else answering for a word? If there's no one, can we vote? Who is "for" this Rules of Procedure, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We go to the second item of the agenda: Ad.2. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the readmission of persons staying without authorisation – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've received a report from the committee in charge. I don't know if the President or the President of the Commission needs to know what he's saying? Is there a need? If not, can we give consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the reading of a person staying without permission? Who Is For? I also find that this decision has been reached unanimously, with no votes "against" and "abstained". Ad.3. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on Visa Facilitation – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
