ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15201	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 19th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As usual, in addition to the MPs at the session, I invited our regular guests: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who expressed interest in attending our meetings, of course, and representatives of certain NGOs. According to the service report, I find that 28 MPs are present at the session. Part of our colleagues is in the next room and has an obligation to hold a conversation on the second item of the agenda: Approval of appointments of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so they are practically here in the hall. The absence from today's session was justified by Mr. Jozo Križanović and I find that the session has a quorum for full work and decision-making. You, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, have this morning received an updated draft agenda with two points: Approval of the appointment of the Prime Minister's Presidency as a second point, and a motion for a resolution on the fight against violence against women in the family – the applicant: MP Vinko Zorić. In the invitation you were also given the opportunity, i.e. we indicated the possibility of supplementing the agenda and the College as well as the Extended College agreed on these amendments. We have ruled out MPs' questions and answers from the agenda, with the possibility that MPs will submit their questions in writing, if they have prepared them and they will be forwarded to the relevant institutions for the purpose of giving answers. On the bench you received an updated draft agenda. We in the College agreed to take a break from 12.00 hours to 14.30 for religious rituals and pre-nuptial duties. In fact, at 13.30 we will have a small cocktail for MPs, for employees of the Parliamentary Assembly and media representatives, and I invite them this way to hang out together at that time. Please, all MPs, take care of the efficiency of today's debate and make sure that today's agenda ends in due time. On the other hand, I was in the next room, where our commission works. I got my own assurances from them that they'll finish part of the work that concerns them, so we'll be able to make full decisions about the second item of the agenda. 2 I am opening a debate on the agenda. Dear MP Bećirović, then honourable MP Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15202	At the beginning of the session, I would like to ask a principled question but which is also a question of respect for the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, as well as respect for the conclusions and decisions of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Namely, the Rules of Procedure has also been asked here to have a direct TV transmission, which is what we do in the Rules of Procedure. We, as the House of Representatives, have held a debate on this issue and have also reached the conclusion that we have a TV broadcast and I am really interested - why this session began the opposite of the conclusion of this house. So we voted on it, the opposite of what it says in the Rules of Procedure? That's what I'd like, first of all, to get an answer to that question. And secondly, I suggest that today's session – if not today, then immediately at the next session – be included in the adoption of the proposal for a law on sports in BiH, since the Council of Ministers also told us four or five months ago that it is urgent that this law should come as soon as possible. There has been a public debate, but here for months already, that law does not come here in parliamentary procedure. As an MP, I want to know why this law is not on parliamentary benches today, and by yesterday, the Council of Ministers had convinced us that it was necessary for this parliament to speed things up in order for BiH to have the law and not enter into various blockades in that segment of society. So that's what I'm proposing as an addition to the agenda and I'm looking for really one explanation about this first thing I said. So it was prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, it was concluded by the House of Representatives. Who in this House or this country wants to keep the citizens of this country in the dark, in misinformation, in ignorance? We have already discussed this once and said that in all European countries people have, and beyond, an opportunity to monitor the work of parliaments. Why do BiH citizens not have this, when the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives decided that we have a direct TV transmission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15203	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15204	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I suggest that the agenda be complemented by the Customs Tariff Act, the proposal of the Council of Ministers. That's what I suggested at the Expansive College, but I was given a reason not to put it on the agenda because we didn't have a report from the Commission. I think the Commission can give its opinion in the next period, during the break, because the law has been in the process for several months, and I would also like to remind you of the debate in the House in the last few months, especially when the adoption of the CEFTA Agreement, when most of us have promised farmers and other producers in BiH to amend the Customs Tariff Act in order to facilitate their business at the time of entry 3 of the CEFTA Agreement. The CEFTA Agreement entered into force on 22.11. We already have negative consequences, and the promises and advocacy we have made, in some ways, are not fulfilled because the law has not yet been adopted in this house and also the advocates that entities will provide significant incentives for agriculture, in order to mitigate the negative consequences of CEFTA, have not also happened because entity budgets have not allocated more significant resources for next year. I think that the justified dissatisfaction of farmers, carriers and other manufacturers is because these people are waiting for the New Year in great uncertainty and I think that today we have present representatives of the Association of Farmers and Representatives of the Association of Transporters in BiH, so I suggest that they address the House briefly to point out our difficult situation that we have practically caused by the adoption of certain laws and the non-compliance of certain laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15205	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15206	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I suggest that the proposed agenda be left out of point 7. The reason is that at the directly held meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, before this meeting of the House of Representatives, we have reached a conclusion that we are launching an initiative to hold a joint session of our Committee on Foreign Affairs and the adequate committee of the House of Peoples, since the groups of friendships should also include representatives of the House of Representatives and envoys of the House of Peoples and that 8.1, as we propose to our colleagues from the House of Nations, we hold a joint session of these two committees at 1300 hours and try to reach a harmonised proposal. If this is not possible for any reason, members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of this House undertake to establish that day our proposal that we will make in the procedure of the House of Representatives, so if we have two different proposals in two homes, there will be an agreement later. We also propose that the agreement on ratification of the Agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan should be abandoned from point 9, since we did not set out an opinion at the Committee's session, for the simple reason that none of the representatives of this ministry, although they were properly invited, appeared from the Resorative Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15207	Thank you. Since... no more reporting for discussion, allow me to answer a few questions. As for the transfer of sessions by the BiH Public TV Service, at the meeting last, when we discussed the agenda point, direct questions were addressed to the director and the Management Board. We've been given some clarifications about that. Our Commission for 4 Traffic and Communications has in its conclusions proposed to the House to organise a session at which it will be only a matter of the Croatian TV service, and I think it is a good time to withdraw the issue again, meaning the transfer of the session directly, why we believe in the College, but certain technical opportunities and the very communication with the RTV service of BiH puts us in this position. However, as you can see, TV teams are present and this session is being broadcast. On the other hand, the Sports Act? We have confidence that the Commission that we have determined to come up with a solution with the Ministry of Civil Affairs on the Law on Sports is very close to making this solution and I think we will have this law at the next session but, as you can see, in the draft agenda, no legislative project has been put in place today, for reasons that we explained at the extended coligium. For this same reason, at the Expansive College, we also gave the honourable MP Lijanović an explanation that, in addition to not putting legal projects on the agenda today, his proposal cannot be put to the vote because there is no business opportunity to put forward a bill without the Commission's report. We didn't get that report from our commission to discuss the agenda, so we can't put that proposal on the agenda, because it would be out of the Rules of Procedure. When we talk about the proposal of our Foreign Affairs Commission, we simply have, to say, a little problem with the House of Peoples in communication and putting together a joint session and we felt that the House of Representatives should give groups of friendships because it is our priority job. Many come to BiH, often asking us that how they have made groups of friendships with BiH and BiH that people, or MPs who are interested in certain groups of friendships, and we felt that the House of Representatives should adopt it and that after that, the House of Peoples, if it adopts it, then we agree afterwards. But here's our commission's proposal. I don't mind if we support our commission's proposal and put those friendship groups in the next session. Here, I've been trying to explain more about this. What if someone has a replica? Dear MP Bećirović pa Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15208	...that this session is going on about the dynamics, so I'm going to say very briefly that I disagree with your argument, Mr. Chairman. I don't see the question of direct television as you've just explained. To me, it's a matter of respecting the Rules of Procedure of this House of Representatives that we must respect, is it, especially you, as chairman! For me, the issue of respecting the conclusion of this House of Representatives, which one very strong parliamentary majority in the position and opposition voted that we have a direct transfer. So, for me, it is a matter of respecting the Rules of Procedure and respecting the conclusions of this House, and we need to show how we treat the Rules of Procedure we are working on and the conclusions we have made. This is therefore my view of the issue and, in any case, because I said that I did not want to interfere with the planned dynamics of this session, we will very much open the issue at the first next and next session of Parliament. As far as the Sports Act is concerned, I really can't, I still can't accept that explanation, because I remember well the people of the Council of Ministers who told us that this law is necessary, that we here in Parliament need to speed up certain procedures and now, here, it's been three months, and there's been a public debate, and first reading, we don't have that law on parliamentary benches, which only says how the Council of Ministers of BiH works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15209	I must remind you that over 30 amendments to the Commission itself have been adopted in relation to this law and that, as far as the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Ministry are concerned, they have done everything possible to find a compromise on these 30 amendments. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15210	...a brief clarification. Does this explanation that was in the enlarged college also apply to the House's session? So will it be possible for the House to plead on this proposal or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15211	In the College, we believe that we do not have the business opportunities to put forward points that can not be proposed for the agenda – it is voted on. I can't put a vote on a point that's not prepared. So, for the agenda point you're proposing, we need to have a report from this committee. I can't put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15212	I would then suggest that after the end of this session because I believe that this law is very important and that people who are doing something in this country should be allowed to also, in some normal conditions, welcome the New Year's, after the session of this new session, to schedule a new session with one item of the agenda, and to commit this commission, in the meantime, to sit down and think that in a very short time, here is an example of the Council of Ministers' Presidents' election, the Commission is working parallelly and we will have it on the agenda. Practically, we have a similar situation. I think it's much more important than our cocktail we'll have later.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15213	You see your proposal, this type of proposal is not possible under the Rules of Procedure, since it takes 24 hours for the amendment phase to challenge the amendments proposed, so it would be possible to schedule a session tomorrow. If you suggest we hold a session tomorrow, then we could put it to a vote. /Shortly Interrupted Record/ 6
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15214	...that session because I think it's a very, very important item of the agenda and that we allow other people to normally wait for New Year's Eve as well as we're going to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15215	Thank you. Since there are no more reported for... Dear Messenger Rajilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to engage in this debate but - Mr. Jerko for clarification - we are procedurally, the Commission can't even debate this, because we didn't get the consent of the Management Board of indirect taxation and we can't put that point on the agenda. We can if we break the Rules of Procedure, if we break the Constitution. If we're going to break the Law on the Administration of indirect taxation, then we can, but by... For this reason, I also informed the College of one written act in which the two laws contained in the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs are in place: the law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, which is the holder of the Commission and... amendments and additions... The Customs Tariff Act of the Council of Ministers. I said very clearly that both of the laws on the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority, that they should give their opinion. We're on the Commission today and we've received a recommendation from the Management Board of Direct Taxation and all those who want to get to know that opinion can... It may even be delivered to all MPs on the table to see what it is. So, formally, we're not, at least in my opinion, this is not the Commission's position, but my personal position, we're not able to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15217	Thank you. Since there are no more applications for discussion, I'm closing the debate. I give the first vote of the motion to organise a new session tomorrow by honourable MP Lijanović. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" seven, "against" 14, "abstained" eight. This proposal did not receive the required majority. We will now vote on our commission's proposal to remove the 7th item of the agenda, the way they asked the Foreign Affairs Commission to organise a meeting with the House of Nations and to ratify the agreement under o) the agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the formation of the Bosnian-Pakistan Economic Commission. Please prepare to vote. Who's in favour of our commission's proposal? 7 You can vote now! "For" 25, "against" three, "restricted" one. I find that we have accepted our commission's proposal. I find that the 19th session of the House of Representatives has the following 1. Records from the 17th and 18th session of the House of Representatives; 2nd. Approval of appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Chairmanial Council of Ministers; 3. Report from the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH (Law in Second Reading); 4. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Police Structure in BiH – MPs Drago Kalabić and Branko Dokić; 5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Bajazit Jašarević, submitted at the 18th session of the House, in the process of discussing the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Excises in BiH; 6. Proposal for a conclusion on voting time on materials on the agenda of the House; 7. Proposal for a resolution on the fight against violence against women in the family – messenger Vinko Zorić; 8. The agreement on development co-operation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, (b) the Agreement establishing a Joint Committee on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, (c) the Agreement between the Council of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Police Cooperation, (d) the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Government of the Republic of Hungary, (e) the Agreement on the Funding of the BiH-Corruption Funding of the Association of the BiH-Corruption Organisations and the International Association for the Development of the Republic of Croatia (IDA) of Bosnia and Herzegovina (IDA) and the International Funding of the Association for the Security of Resources of the EU, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of We're moving on to the adopted agenda. The first item of the agenda is Ad. 1. Minutes from 17th and 18th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15221	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I certainly don't mind having this matter handled the way you suggested and I welcome this one of yours, let's say, initiative, is it? You have proposed this here to adopt Parliament as a form of conclusion, but I would ask you to – we can do this, we will not make a mistake – but I would ask you today to support this Parliament as an initiative of Parliament and to put in charge, or, if you will, an ad hoc commission or a constitutional commission to make a precise proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure by the next session, only on this subject, because we are not going with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament's conclusion. We won't lose anything until next session. In charge, here I am, if you won't form an ad hoc commission, then here's the one, check out whatever you want. I mean, it would be logical if it were to be the Constitutional Commission if you wanted the ustavnopravni Commission to prepare a proposal for amendments that would be discussed and adopted at the next session of Parliament under special procedure, to be amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, rather than to be the conclusion of Parliament that it would work, because this is the key thing that we will decide. And it would be good if it were to change the Rules of Procedure, and we won't lose anything in time. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15222	Thank you. We in the College have been thinking this way and together with the secretary, we have come up with business opportunities to regulate the conclusion, but we support your initiative and I think that within this agenda point we should adopt an additional conclusion that we will form an ad hoc commission that, and we will say time, let's say, by 1 March, we will make a consolidated part of the Rules of Procedure in this direction and with other points... Rules of Procedure that would need to change. I think that would be a good way for us to really go through the rules of procedure finally as we should, so I ask you to support this conclusion, and within this point of the agenda, to form an ad hoc committee and ask the presidents of the clubs to propose members to that committee so that we can immediately, together with the House of People, search our rules of procedure properly. Is there anyone else who might still have something to do with this agenda point to answer? If not, please vote for the conclusion, and then, and the conclusion regarding this agenda point, regarding the ad hoc commission. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 21, "against" one, "abstained" five. I find this conclusion adopted. And I would now like to vote on the conclusion of the College on the establishment of the Ad hoc Commission on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure that would be completed by 1.3.2008. Please vote now! 10 “For ” 25, “against ” was not one“ abstention. ” I'd like the presidents of the clubs to deliver the proposals to the College for the Ad hoc commission, one member at a time. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a resolution on the fight against violence against women in the family – submitr: MP Vinko Zorić As you know, at last session, we sent this resolution, so at the 18th session, to the committee responsible. On 14 December, the Commission for the Ageing of Gender Equality submitted a Report on the Proposal for a Resolution. You've got the report. As you have seen, the Commission adopted a motion for a resolution with two amendments, which gives us the right to practically all resolutions need to go into the commission phase, in order to improve them. I would ask only the professional service if it is able to invite the applicant of this resolution, since he expressed his desire to explain. By the time he gets here, I'm opening a debate. Dear Messenger Malić has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15224	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am, in effect, a member of the Committee on Gender Equality and tasked with being a rapporteur at the plenary session today, because after the initiative of our chairman, Vink Zorić, and the consideration of the Committee on Gender Equality, this has become an initiative, i.e. a proposal for a resolution adopted by the Commission. I don't think there should be much explanation, esteeming today's times and tasks ahead of us, but I just have to point out that the proposed resolution is something that in the united fight of the Council of Europe to combat violence against women in some way obliges both our country and is serious about all the efforts that government representatives are doing together and a number of NGOs to unite together with everyone in Europe, at last, pay sufficient attention to this issue. Mr. Chairman has already said that we, considering the proposed text of the resolution, have made only two minor amendments and these are these two amendments, in which one difficult word... a long-standing failure is replaced by insufficient progress, because failure is not what is characterized by the struggle that has already taken place with us and something that has been related to the lecturing variant of our languages. So, on behalf of the Commission who unanimously supported the motion for a resolution, I would really ask all members of the House of Representatives to support us in our efforts to become part of this resolution's efforts at the Council of Europe to fight violence against women. Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15225	Thank you. If there's no more reports? Who? Dear MP Zorić expressed his desire at the Extended College to say several sentences regarding this resolution. Here, I'm calling him if he needs to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15226	I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. Well, I don't know what my colleague Mirjana said. What? Well, someone called me to come.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15227	It's okay, it's not a problem. If you have a need, you have a business obligation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15228	I don't have a need to say anything that I didn't say at the Expansive College and this resolution was signed with my name, and I intended it to be a committee resolution. But to move a step faster, that's why I signed and we took a step faster. She wouldn't be at today's session if we'd waited for the Committee to agree to the proposal, but we saw and there wasn't much change. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15229	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. I call on the House to determine according to the motion for a resolution on the fight against domestic violence against women. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 25, there was no "against"; there was no "compassionate". I find that we unanimously adopted this resolution. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Giving consent to ratification And on the agenda now we have 17 agreements and contracts to give consent to ratification. I've read them all. This morning, our committee sat down and gave its opinion on these acts. I suggest we discuss all the documents with the House. I'm opening a debate on the ratification of documents we've read on the agenda. If there are no reports... 12 Dear Messenger Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15231	I'm sorry, we're going a little faster than I planned, so then, Mr. Chairman, members of Parliament, members of the government, I really want to ask very briefly certain questions to the resolution ministry, what I said to the Commission. And there are several agreements that we give consent to for BiH's credit debt. These are agreements under e, f, g, n, p) and q and with a significant amount of funds. One of them of 70m euros, one of them of 3.3m special draw rights, the other, also the same amount, etc. I would really like to hear from the Ministry a little more detailed information about these agreements, especially what it means and how much of these special rights are... what is that amount in euros or in KM. And in particular, this 70m-euro credit debt road deal? To hear the information: what projects... will be financed, in what way will it be implemented? What we have in this agreement is really very lame, and it's only elements of the contract, there's no explanation whatsoever, in most cases and, in particular, this and for utility companies, where there are three cities or three companies that are going to be. Well, probably, there are some criteria, there are some criteria, there are previous procedures, I guess! But I want to raise my voice knowingly for... these decisions as I have done in the Commission, with a request that these financial amounts are clearly explained to us which in these contracts are specified: what will be used, how the funds will be implemented, how these projects are selected, etc.?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15232	Thank you. We have representatives of the Council of Ministers here. Does anyone want from the finance ministry? Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15233	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs, I will try very briefly, and it is a broad matter. So, for the conclusion of an international contract, there is a procedure that is fully respected for these agreements. So as for the specific task of infrastructure related to roads, I am obliged to inform you of the following. So, the only state is authorized to sign exactly this procedure, as it was: and at the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, and now at Parliament and afterwards, negotiations begin. As regards these credit obligations themselves, it means that entities are credited and are in their jurisdiction and the Road Directorate, etc., etc. Before coming to you with these documents, the entity governments and their parliaments have made decisions or various documents that are needed to ratify these agreements where they have decided on an entity-level basis where their priorities are to invest, in which roads, in which roads, and in which they are to be made. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers still, since there are no constitutional powers, nothing simply accepts it, accepts that entity governments have chosen the best, where they are, and ultimately, those loans in the version of the signature and return. So, from their budget, it comes back, the state comes here as a service by law, so by the Constitution of BiH, it does. But I'm telling you: all the procedures for this, for the 13 choices the infrastructure will operate, which are their priority routes, are brought by entity governments and entity parliaments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15234	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15235	Because of these clarifications, allow me to have the assistant minister say the way the credit decisions were made, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, he said something that was very important to know. Even getting these credits is a pain in the ass! I speak from the level of need for infrastructure in cities. I will give you an example that the Tuzla Municipality for the water treatment it received as a loan from the Vlada of Madžarska had to guarantee: the Municipal Council, the Cantonal Assembly, the Federal Government and eventually came to the level of state parliament to ratify, which means the return obligations are not in the state, but the state is guaranteed, but the return obligations are in fact from the municipality and canton. I absolutely support these projects, and it's just a question, what you asked Mr. Nanić -- how can certain cities come up with projects like this? I think it's a thing that can't be defined by a ratification contract, but it can be very important to ask... this question at the level of those institutions that decide on, I would say, the proposal of projects for lending and infrastructure. As far as travel communication is concerned, I think it's the first part, and the distribution of funds between the RS entity and the federal part and the Brcko District, and inside that, again, this is the question where we can get an answer asking the ministries to ask where these funds will be spent. Therefore, I speak here when the ratification agreement comes, according to what we are, here – there are five MPs here, in the last meeting there were four of us – we have struggled to implement this, because this project here is definitely, for example, solved the issue of water supply in Tuzla, which I absolutely support all of these projects in the infrastructure section that can facilitate and enable the citizens of BiH to live better. I think that because of this, this clarification that Mr. Nanić asked for, the more questions that should be directed towards those who approve, I would say, these credit obligations, and in this Parliament, that this is based on this and that we give ratification of these agreements.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15236	Thank you. If there are no more charges for discussion, I'm closing the debate. Although there have been some issues and concerns regarding the points of the agenda concerning credit projects, I am still calling on the House to make a statement in the package on all agreements, unless there is some other proposal that I could put to the vote. If there isn't, I'm asking Dom to prepare himself. We vote in the package for all ratifications listed in the agenda. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! 14 "For" 25, "against" and "abstained" were not. I agree that we have agreed to ratify all the agreements listed in the agenda. I currently have information that the talks are under way with Mr Špirić, so we're taking a break and the break will last until 2:30, because obviously we won't be able to reach 2:30... No, if we leave at 11:30, we'll have to take a break at 11:45, that won't make sense. So I'll see you at 2:30, which we agreed on at 13:30. I invite all MPs and media representatives, employed to meet me downstairs for a proper cocktail. [[PAUZA]] ... asking all clubs to delegate MPs who will deal with this issue and we have received the following suggestions. The SDA club is proposed by Mr Halid Genjac, SBiH Club Mr. Remzija Kadrić, SNSD Club Mr. Kalabić, Mr. Velimir Jukić's club, HDZ Club 1990 Mr. Vink Zorić, SDS Club Mr. Momčilo Novaković, SDP Club Mr. Joz Križanović and BPS Mr. Sefer Halilović. If no one has any objections, and I don't think we should, given that this is from club presidents, I can find out that we formed an Ad hoc commission that was assigned to create a consolidated Rules of Procedure by 1.3. I will ask the secretary of this committee, Secretary of the House, to draw up this committee so that they can choose between themselves the president of this committee and the two deputies and so that they can work in full formation from next month. And now we can go to the agenda points that we have left. The third item of the agenda is: Ad. 3. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH (Law in Second Reading )
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15243	Dear Members of Parliament, representatives of the media, guests, a year ago, perhaps at the same time, I addressed the House of Representatives when I was appointed chairman of the Council of Ministers and presented the programme, the Council of Ministers' programme for four years. I can say that all the goals that are then listed in that programme, those that are not met, remain the challenges and objectives of my personal and Council of Ministers if you decide to lead. Let me begin by expressing my satisfaction that the situation in our country has improved significantly since my last address to this respected home. The reason is clear: domestically elected authorities have realised that the basis for the country's success is internal dialogue and compromise. And thanks to that, they managed to exploit the crisis in, I'd say, the best possible way. They have shown they are capable of managing the crisis, not of managing BiH. The result is obvious, BiH has initialled a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, it would dare say, is on track to sign the agreement soon. 17 The programme objectives I set here on January 11th have not changed. I remained faithful to the European idea and the European future of BiH. My position is clear and I believe you will agree with me that this country has no other alternative. The European path of BiH is not and will not be easy, as it has not been easy for other countries that now belong to the family. We meet and face many challenges, I am convinced that we will be able to overcome these challenges if we opt for the path of compromise, a compromise that implies the will and willingness of all, and not the persistent demand for a weaker one to unconditionally accept attitudes stronger, and if we opt for a permanent dialogue based on full respect for others, and especially those who think otherwise. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is a major task set before us, and that is why the policy of the new Council of Ministers – which you will hopefully soon confirm – will be based on the European partnership and the commitments that arise from it. This Council of Ministers will further engage in police reform, RTS reform, public administration reform and co-operation with The Hague tribunal. With regard to police reform, I must say that I am more than ever convinced that this issue will be resolved, that we are on a good path and that we should take advantage of a positive moment and opportunity. As you know, the Council of Ministers has already made some concrete moves on this issue, and therefore the primary goal of the new one is to call on the laws needed to create BiH police bodies to be completed by the end of February 2008, so that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is signed in the first quarter of 2008. The next objective of the new Council of Ministers will be to continue reforming the Public Administration. A lot of good things have been done this year on this plan, as noted in the European Commission report. Therefore, the Council of Ministers will be determined to continue the activities on this plan, and in particular to provide the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office with the necessary human and material resources necessary for quality work, to ensure that employment procedures are improved, in line with objective criteria, to bring the state service laws in line with the creation of a responsible and efficient state service. The reform of the public broadcasting system is another programme goal of the new Council of Ministers. I zalagati argue that this issue is resolved in a way that is acceptable to all constituent peoples in BiH. So far, we have repeatedly made sure that all projects or reforms that were not acceptable to all constituent peoples have been condemned to failure and that is why the Council of Ministers will make additional efforts to offer acceptable and functional solutions. The media and especially the public are an important element of BiH's success and we must all make a contribution to the creation of such a public system that will meet all the criteria of European society. The next programme goal of the Council of Ministers is to finally resolve the issue of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which has been inadmissiblely burdening BiH on its path to Euro-Atlantic integration. The task can only be fulfilled through joint action by state and entity bodies, with the support of the international community. The Council of Ministers will make a full contribution through state bodies, i.e. SIPA, OSA, State Border Service, to the achievement of this objective. It is clear that only through joint work, coordinated action, pooling resources, sources and intelligence, this task can be solved. Economic reforms... which will unite, provide international economic sovereignty and a unique economic space were and will be the programme goal of this Council of Ministers. Under its responsibilities, the Council of Ministers will support new investments and key privatisation projects aimed at creating new jobs, increasing employment and increasing the rate of economic and economic growth. The Council of Ministers will also seek to improve fiscal coordination and stability through reaching agreement on a formula for the distribution of public revenues, the establishment of a fiscal council, the revision and 18 rationalisation of social contributions, the reduction of public spending in the gross social product. We will be committed to creating a better business environment by removing administrative barriers, improving the operationality of the financial sector, encouraging market opening, etc. The dynamics of the economic growth rate depend on new and especially foreign investments, and this requires political......./Shortly interrupted recording/... Unemployment is a burning problem in our country. We all have to deal vigorously with this challenge, and that is why I call on the entity governments to make this issue their top priority. The Council of Ministers will make an active contribution to the resolution of this issue in accordance with its competences and capabilities in order to improve alarming statistics as much as possible. The Council of Ministers will certainly aim to reduce the foreign trade deficit by dynamicising the rate of economic and economic growth as well as by taking other active measures. High on the agenda of the Council of Ministers' work will be the development of agriculture and tourism. Agriculture is... key to BiH's further development and hides a great potential to work on. Once the Agricultural and Rural Development Act has been adopted, the Council of Ministers will work to develop a comprehensive agricultural strategy at the state level, and then we will strengthen administrative capacities in terms of agriculture, nutrition and rural development so that a policy of market development and rural development can be coordinated throughout the country. We are determined to strengthen laboratory and inspection capacities in the area of food safety and the veterinary cytosanitary sector. Tourism is a branch that can certainly help the recovery of BiH's economy, and therefore the Council of Ministers will support any project of this kind and good ideas in the field of tourism. One of the preconditions for supporting agriculture and tourism is an adequate concern for environmental protection. The Council of Ministers will work on drafting environmental laws, establishing an environment agency as well as further strengthening the administrative capacities of environmental institutions, and improving mutual communication and co-ordination of these institutions. I think it's high time we all worked a little harder on this plan... we, as authorities, should serve as an example. In implementing all the above-mentioned objectives and reforms, the Council of Ministers will take into account, within its competence, the balance of economic development of all parts of our country so that all citizens feel as important as it should be. To achieve this goal, we will need support from all levels of government, government and non-governmental sectors, and I would call on them to help us with this. NATO membership is one... clearly expressed strategic goal of BiH that will provide us with the necessary stability and security. The Council of Ministers is committed to continue defence reform and will therefore make an active contribution to resolving the issue of military property, issues that have been making the process difficult in the sector for some time. In addition, we will argue that regardless of the lack of financial resources in the budget for next year, we will provide a more favourable financial treatment for the Armed Forces of BiH, with the goal of achieving NATO standards. We hope that this could be enough for NATO headquarters in Brussels to see strong progress in the further implementation of the defence reform and that by at least one step closer to our final goal next year in Bucharest, as I have already said, full membership in the NATO Alliance. With the support of leaders of leading political parties, one of the priorities of the new Council of Ministers is also a solution to state property status. As you know, the High Representative extended the decision to ban the availability of state property by the end of June 2008. And the Council of Ministers will make a major contribution to resolving the issue before the deadline, so that the decision does not extend again. 19 The reform of education is, I dare say, one of the most important reforms for BiH and its future. A lot of positive things have already happened this year, but the Council of Ministers will aim to further intensify the work on this field to implement as many of the main components of the Bologna Process as possible and the Lisbon Conference on the recognition of diplomas, in order to resolve the fragmentation of the education system and to sickle the separation of children in schools on an ethnic basis. Development and promotion of research will also be one of the goals of the future work of the Council of Ministers. Discussing corruption that violates BiH's reputation and threatens to disrupt the satisfactory level of foreign, thus still unsatisfactory level of foreign investment in BiH remains one of the top tasks of the Council of Ministers. This battle was fought by all countries in transition... and we must not be the exception. It is a difficult task where we will need help from all levels of government and all sectors of society. The Council of Ministers will work hard to adopt and implement a detailed action plan against corruption, to implement recommendations made by a group of states to fight corruption, to prosecute corruption cases decisively, to adopt zero tolerance policies towards corruption and to ensure the proper implementation of the Law on Conflict of Interest. The fight against organised crime and terrorism is an extremely difficult task the Council of Ministers plans to face. We will be committed to preparing and implementing an action plan stemming from a state strategy to fight organised crime and corruption. With the problem of human trafficking in BiH in mind, the Council of Ministers will update and implement a state action plan to combat human trafficking and ratify all necessary conventions in this area... as well as take additional measures to protect victims of trafficking and ensure adequate implementation of witness protection legislation. We will step up the fight against organised crime, intensify international co-operation in this area. We will provide an increase in the capacity of SIPA in the fight against terrorism and engage in global co-operation in this area. Whether I want to admit it or not, drugs are becoming a growing and growing problem in BiH's territory, and the Council of Ministers will engage in the development of a state-level anti-drug policy that will comply with EU standards, as well as ensuring the full functioning of the Narcotics Office. Another one of the goals I will pursue personally is the census. I don't think BiH, as an EU candidate country, can afford not to have basic statistics such as the census for years. Therefore, the Council of Ministers will set up the legal framework necessary for the implementation of the census, agree on the target date of the census and start preparations for the implementation of the census. This would be short - basic goals and priorities of the new Council of Ministers. I invite you all together, to engage together, to engage together, to engage in additional potentials and strength to overcome all the temptations that are ahead of us. On BiH's Euro-Atlantic path,... there will be many more denials in BiH but on the day we become full members of the EU and NATO, it will be worth it. BiH citizens are impatient for a reason, because sometimes we have been standing on a point in BiH for too long, and BiH must never stand, but must constantly be on the road to the EU, on a road that has been shocked by the denial and fulfilment of the necessary conditions. In the end, let me thank you for the attention and confidence shown and remind you of the progress: that BiH's progress lies in the agreement of its peoples, because only a healthy dialogue, not imposed on the side, can provide a prosperous future for our country. Parliament must be a place of dialogue in search of the best solutions. That's why I want to say that in the next period, if I get your support, I will do everything I can to bring communication at the Council of Ministers' and Parliament's route to a satisfactory level. 20 I thank you, and if there are questions I am willing to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15244	Thank you. You heard the presentation of the Chairman's Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Please sign in, both electronically and like, so I can read everyone who checked in. So, the currently respected MP Bećirović, pa Dolić, pa Halilović, pa Lagumdžija, pa Hadži Jovan. Here you are, dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15245	Here we heard the old man's presentation, according to the new BiH Council of Ministers chairman. We of the SDP, as the largest opposition party, unfortunately, must realize that everything we've said before, here's almost a few days from now, that just came true. And then we pointed out the incompetence and unqualification of individual ministers in the Council of Ministers, the inadequacy of alliances between certain political options that have diametrically different programmes and then we said, and it was confirmed as true, that there is no team and joint programme, we are still, and then we said that it was not good that some bad personnel solutions from the previous call came back. But a year ago, the Council of Ministers was elected by the will of the parliamentary majority, and we in the SDP would have liked to have made a mistake when we said all this, what we said a year ago. Unfortunately, we were right, unfortunately by the state of BiH. And here we listen again, one year later, to the same Council of Ministers chairman who again, after the year has failed, says: My programme goals remain the same. The only thing that we can ask ourselves in this room is: is it serious now and really going to approach the realisation of these programming goals, or is the same thing going to happen to us in the last year? Because I remind you, and on January 11, this year, which has not yet expired, we are told the same thing in this same room! In this address, we heard from the candidate for the new Council of Ministers Chairman about some new Council of Ministers meeting! As far as we know, there will be no new Council of Ministers' summons, this same assembly will remain, although, of course, in every responsible country where work and work results are appreciated, this Council of Ministers would get quite certain red card. The candidate for the chairman of the Council of Ministers told us: We have done a lot of good things and the European Commission has noticed that, which is absolutely not true. And here I am, fortunately, so I have gathered it all together, and I have addressed former High Representative Kristijan Švarc Šilingo, the new High Representative of Mr. Lajčak, the address of Teri Dejvis, Secretary General of the Council of Europe, the letter from Oli Ren of 8 May this year, the Declaration of the Governing Board for the Implementation of Peace and Mass of Documents, official documents from very responsible people from the international community, who speak of the lost year in BiH. We, at the end of this year, rather than recapture the results of this Council of Ministers, are the only things we can say: thank you for preserving peace in this country! It is the only tangible liquid appearance in this country – the preservation of peace. And you can imagine what it was like to only be able to boast, is it, or say that peace is preserved in this country. I, of course, expected the candidate myself for the Council of Ministers to tell us what happened to the exposé – which I have here 21 right now on the 11 January 2007 list – so from that exposé a year ago? What about the promises that are planted here? Why isn't that realized? Who's responsible for why it hasn't been realized? Will people in this country get an answer to these questions? The old and candidate for the new chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers told us that he would find a new way out of this unsustainable situation, that key state affairs would be taken into his own hands, that BiH would get candidate status, that good news would come from this country, that it was planning to gather together a team that would be distinguished by experience, knowledge, youth etc. And not to mention all that is said in this parallel, what is written, delivered to the media, to the MPs and to the citizens of this country. Instead, instead of answering those questions, we have received the answer that now, under the circumstances, this program will actually be realized. We also heard about the reasons that came a few months ago, why the chairman of the Council of Ministers resigned. Here, I am publicly asking now: Which of these reasons has the chairman of the Council of Ministers resigned at this time, so he again accepted the candidacy for the Council of Ministers chairman? I would ask him to say it publicly here in the BiH Parliament. All those who voted for this Council of Ministers, I would ask them to tell us who will be responsible for the collapse of a year in this country? This government has stolen one year of life from people in this country. Mr. Izetbegović,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15246	Please don't throw, just a minute, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15247	...don't throw away. Those who stole 50 years, in half a year they built 24 km of railroads, and those with modern machinery can't make it in 12 years. So we don't pollemize about it! I must say, however, that the greatest responsibility for this situation, which I said a few months ago, cannot yet be borne by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. This must be borne by those political leaders who created the climate they created in this country in the last year. But all those who voted a year ago should today have a truly great political responsibility and vote for the same people again, with the same programme, after a year of failure. We said a year ago it wasn't working. Many have attacked us in this House, and we see again that there are the same design mistakes, which, apparently, will be neither team nor results. But in this country, finally someone has to take responsibility because we have 800,000 poor people, because in the last two years alone, this country has fallen to a global level of global competitiveness by 24 places back and takes 106 places, right now. In this country, someone has to take responsibility for the safety and safety of people. What is this message to this country when you can rob an international airport in broad daylight, take 3 million marks, then rob banks in large cities, etc.? I also have here a speech by the chairman of the Council of Ministers in Mr Špirić's resignation, which he presented at the UN Security Council on 15 November 2007. I found that speech on the Council of Ministers' web portal. In this address to the UN Security Council, Mr Špirić says police reform has been condemned to failure from the very beginning, because I am saying that the logical sequence should have been the first reform of the constitution and only then the police reform. So this is addressing the Security Council. 22 As we see from the Mostar Declaration, it will be the opposite. I don't just know if the new and old chairman of the Council of Ministers will give up this speech a month and a half ago at the UN Security Council. He also called on the UN Security Council to quote that they are forcing this government to work, and what is this message to people in this world, where we are calling on someone from this country to make us work in this country!? We need to ask serious questions here. What is the perception of this country and what have we done in the last year and the last years that this perception and state in this country will be better? What about complex and unpredictable legal legislation? What about an inefficient judicial system? What did we do in the field of fighting corruption?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15248	I'm just asking you to watch out!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15249	What we did with the bad infrastructure, etc.? I don't know how much longer I have left.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15250	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 69 shall not exceed 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15251	Okay. I would like to say that although there were some doubts about how this coalition worked, on which principles, I heard a few sessions ago a comment that completely clarified the political situation in this country. I heard that comment from Mr Bakir Izetbegović several sessions ago here in Parliament. And in one discussion, Mr Izetbegović literally said: Whenever there is a coalition between his party and one of the other parties in this parliament within the parliamentary majority, we will remember the SDP president. Like, we're gonna save that coalition, 'cause we're gonna remember the president of the SDP! Now, this best shows you what kind of feudal principles and archaics there are and there are coalitions in this country, not on European resolutions. Let's see what we've done in this country, how many new people we've hired, how many new jobs have we opened, how many foreign investors have we dragged into this country? So we analyze on that basis and say, "Are we in a coalition with someone or not?" Obviously, however, none of it has anything to do with it. ...the chairman, did... we... time for the Rules of Procedure expire? I remain only to say that, like the entire SDP club, we will be against the appointment of the Council of Ministers chairman for a number of reasons that we have presented, and probably other colleagues will talk about it, but all of this can be summed up in one sentence: This Council of Ministers and this Council of Ministers have not at all justified the confidence of the citizens of BiH, they have not realised what they have promised, and therefore they must bear responsibility in the Council of Ministers but certainly, before them, key leaders of the ruling parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15252	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15253	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, in a little less than a year, we are fortunate or unfortunate that we are participants in the review ceremony of the appointment of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. On stage are the same directors, same actors and, unfortunately, the same audience. Only, compared to January 11th was the little change in the text Nikola Špirić gave us today. By the atmosphere, you would also, at first glance, say it's just as solemn as it was then but behind the scenes, of course, the situation is completely different, and I would say, away from the candlestick. Although there is no such thing as going back in time, it is necessary to conclude or repeat this time that we have a lost year behind us, in which we are witnessing: six parties of the parliamentary majority have not reached consensus on any major political or any other issue or step forward for BiH. The political situation is far more complex and tense than it was a year ago. Not only did BiH come down from the European road at one long time but it was lost in the waterless forest. I must admit that Mr. Špirić's opening speech in this house was almost idyllic, and I personally had the impression that I was attending the performance of Dejvid Koperfild here in Sarajevo. Of course, all illusions were short-lived and it only took a few days after we went back to reality, and our reality was that Nikola Špirić was set up as a conductor of orchestras who tried to play the same composition on the notes of six different composers. What it looked like to perform such a composition over the past year, BiH citizens have had the opportunity not only to see but also to experience and feel on their own skin. Unfortunately, we cannot boast that in the past year we have taken at least one reform step in any segment of life, and the positive effects of some earlier steps have been completely misdirected and used. The real example of this is the effects, for example, from the introduction of VAT, which are estimated at 1.5 billion KMs on an annual basis, which, instead of encouraging development, social reform or further reform, have been used mainly to strengthen the material status of the indestructible state apparatus and administration, at all levels. When it became clear that BiH had strayed from the European path and when, by failing to meet the conditions, we missed the last train to Europe and, unfortunately, when in this country, more and more loudly started talking about a new conflict, the matter took into its own hands a high representative behind whom the international community had ever stood. To the high representative's move, following political balloons, political comments, the first concretely and resolutely reacted to Nikola Špirić with his resignation, which he explains as a moral act, but not because BiH is stepping on the European bottom, but because the High Representative has dared to do what both Nikola Špirić and this parliament and all of us Bosanac and Hercegovac should do. I must admit that even then, in the first wave, I wanted to believe that it was a moral act by Mr Špirić, but only a day later in the correctional speech, the two-day session of both homes, Mr Špirić denied himself and confirmed that it was nevertheless a political act that resulted in the deepening of the political crisis and further political destabilisation of BiH. In the days after that, in just 15 days apart, we saw the way of BiH, from the border of some new conflict to returning to the European path. We saw that the leaders of six political parties reached consensus in just one day and gave legal form to what they couldn't in 10 months or more. This definitely revealed the way they function best and definitely proved that both BiH and the European path, in fact, are their hostages. However, in these last two months and in BiH,...at least 24 few European suns have reached and sown at least so little expected optimism, for which we have thanked Miroslav Lajčak and the international community, because it is their Bayram, Christmas and New Year's gift to BiH and its citizens. I am delighted with the speed with which the High Representative and the international community managed to recapture the six party leaders who make up the parliamentary majority and it is a real pleasure to hear how they evolved overnight on the European path, becoming evropljan, peacemakers, reformists, political partners, etc. Although objectively they are not responsible for BiH's return to the European path, the leaders of the parliamentary majority have initialled a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which has indeed one great value, taken on the heavy burden of reform and meeting the conditions on the European path. After taking such serious commitments, I expected parliamentary majority parties to take more care of the team in the Council of Ministers, with which they should meet their commitments. With all personal sympathy for Mr Špirić, and after everything that's happened over the past little over two months, I personally don't believe that he can be a successful conductor at the head of the Council of Ministers, in conditions where there will be the same trumpeters who will go for their aria every time to the party leaders. In such a situation, it would be practically best for six party leaders to meet in the Council of Ministers and thus not waste time leaving for opinion. I hope that Mr Špirić is aware that, rather than speaking out of charity after paraphrasing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and today's appointment, he will need to work concretely and meet his commitments towards building the European road to BiH. Personally, I think that Mr Špirić and those who have re-nominated him with the same Council of Ministers and in these circumstances put BiH ahead of a new adventure and I fear that this adventure will not lead us off the European path again and stuck in some new abyss. It is not likely that after the last place in qualifications for the European League and all the lost matches played in the past year this Council of Ministers team deserves to play with the same coach in the same composition, without any change. I'm sorry, but this is the only way that only one who doesn't care about the team or European qualifications can behave like this, and I can't look at it any different. For me, there is only one way that Nikola Špirić and the standard composition of the Council of Ministers team will function impeccably and meet all the commitments taken by BiH on the European path, which is if the hands of their political bosses are wise from the twisting of the international community. I hate to say this, and as a man and an MP of this house, it doesn't impote at all, but, unfortunately, at least for now, it's our reality and reality. I would like to believe that political masters in BiH have transformed so quickly from arrogant rivals and national radicals into partners ready for consensus and dialogue, without which there is really no fulfillment of the conditions on the European path. To be clear, I am not a skeptic for BiH's European path but I am too skeptical that in this way, as in the past 12 months and with such spent people, I can talk realistically about reforms and marathon efforts in carrying out the commitments undertaken, of course whose chief executive is the Council of Ministers. With far more arguments and a moral standoff than January 11th, I still cannot vote to confirm Nikola Špirić's appointment as the new prime minister's council, as I am sure that with such a team in European qualifications it is only a matter of time his new resignation or some new political maneuver. Regardless of such conviction, this time too, I will make it clear and loud that the Democratic People's Community of BiH and I, personally, as an MP in this House, will be in the position of supporting the upcoming reforms and building a European road for 25 BiH. That's why no one's gonna need to turn their hands to me, and I'm gonna do it with pleasure in every opportunity because it's really in the interest of both BiH and all its citizens. Of course, despite all my reserves, the name of the Democratic People's Community and on my personal behalf, I wish Nikola Špirić good luck in the second term and I hope that he will have more success than in his first attempt. I would like Mr Špirić not to be the subject of some new debates in this house, but rather to welcome the end of his, hopefully, prime minister's term with us, with BiH in Europe or with a wide open door to BiH for Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15254	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15255	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers and representatives of the international community, while I thought about what I would say so wisely here today, at this theatre performance that is organised by the ruling coalitions, I remembered a funeral, when I was in high school, when a very dear colleague died and suddenly died at the funeral, us few of us who were very sorry for him, we were struggling to write that farewell speech and our respected professor Momo Vukotić, when he saw us struggling over that speech, he approached us and said, "Children, don't bother about it, there's nothing cheaper than to say in the cemetery. I have the impression here that today is such a show that it's even cheaper to speak here than it is in that cemetery. If you noticed, only when the chairman of the Council of Ministers began speaking, here were a dozen cameras, 15 cameras, either, when he finished his speech packed up the cameras and left. I can only conclude from this that the ruling coalition cares about sending a fine message that honey and milk are again within the ruling coalition, that all misunderstandings and problems have been forgotten and that now from us there will be honey and milk in BiH in the future. Let me second-guess you the College of the House of Representatives. You are not able to respect, or you will not, the decision to conduct a public TV broadcast of such sessions of Parliament, so as not to manipulate the public in this way. I will... still say a few words more, for the sake of fellow MPs and... among them there are those, although in other parties, which I greatly respect and for which I have concluded through some discussions that they do not know much about some thieves, even within their parties. At the first time, when we first promoted here, that is, when Mr Špirić and the government were elected, I made it very clear and loud that this non-discipline coalition could not bring the country out of the crisis, but could lead the country into a crisis, maintain a crisis at an existing level or lead it into a deeper crisis. We did, and we'll probably have, incompetent and insufficiently professional Council of Ministers, especially because it's irresponsible to fix anything in the last year and we're witnessing it. In this opening speech, there is no such development strategy anywhere, nor are there elements in which and how to solve the problem of those who are most vulnerable and who from day to day because of these gatherings are increasingly difficult to live. There's no strategy against the black market. It's not because, I'm going to say it even though I know it won't be nice to some people, because I know that some people sitting here in Parliament are directly connected to the black market and I'm going to remind you that the black oil market swallows about a billion and 300 million a year, and the total black market between 5 and 6 billion marks is 26 a year. Of course there's no letter on that. There is no strategy for fighting organised crime and corruption and I have asked the question here several times, last time I asked a direct question, a written question, precisely to Mr Špirić: What about those 8.6 billion marks that have disappeared from donations?, which Mr Špirić, as an MP, knows very well, because here in Parliament there is also a word of course. The collection of electricity, other life supplies, the drop in living standards, the strategy against poverty, of course, there's nothing about it. I will not vote for Mr Špirić, although I must say: for the first time I have had great sympathies and I expected the chairman of the SNSD Council as a Social Democratic Party to seduce at least some elemental order and behavior within and the Council of Ministers, and whatever we ask him and the Council of Ministers say to the entity governments, as if there, as if the Federation is ruled by the Communist Party of China, and in the RS, a united Russia. Does the same parliamentary majority not have power in both RS territory and within the Federation territory? I will not vote because by resigning, solely for political reasons, it has caused the biggest crisis in BiH since the last war. I won't vote because after that he left, two members of the presidency say unauthorized, to the UN and there, saying what he was saying. And I'd invite you to think this through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15256	Thank you. The next registered honourable MP, Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15257	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, unlike my colleagues, I will be brief. Today I had the opportunity on the Commission to ask a few questions to the candidate for the chairman, the esteemed Mr Špirić, and the questions were about what happened from the moment Mr Spiric was presented here in front of this parliament, which is why Mr Špirić does not want to continue to be an actor and what has changed in this period to return to this position? I didn't get an answer, and I expected that I couldn't get the answer, because it was about the imposed decisions of the High Representative which were the basic reason. It's an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, then the Law of... To the council of ministers, where it was found only as if Mr. Lajčak had given so much space that this ruling coalition said it was their compromise and nothing else. I see in all that simply what Mr. Lajčak imagined – it is simply here and done and confirmed. Nothing new, except what has been done in the work of this Council of Ministers in the past, and that is that more confirmed by the laws imposed by this Parliament, what has been imposed by the High Representative, than by the laws that were to come from the Council of Ministers to this Parliament so that we can discuss. So the compromise is just what the High Representative imposes, and we take over and here we vote, can we, they say, just change, if we verify it here in this House. This is how this country works by imposing laws and good public acting, where it is said to the public: here we have managed to paralyze the agreement, so the people forget that what was imposed by the High Representative, that it was confirmed here by these political parties, and that if anything could happen during this period of this crisis, it does not interest individuals. And we're aware that we have 27 such a difficult situation as employment itself, that we have a lot of people with a heavy material condition who don't have the opportunity and time to think about what can happen to them at night. What I'm trying to say is, for principled reasons, for which I won't be human, and when they are proposed in the executive power, both at BiH level and at entity level, that is for people who build their children's future outside of the entity space and beyond BiH. I am not sure that it will make good moves and bring good laws, participate in compromises that will be a compromise for good, start with my family and my child living in this space, and whom I am not building out there anything outside of this country's space called BiH and RS. And I won't build as long as there's any hope here. But what I can see and what I've seen in this space from entities to the top of BiH has connected one thread of people on the political scene, that in 90% of the cases, they're all building their children out of this space, which in terms of housing, which means that they don't believe in this country and, as well, what makes me think that this people can do anything, as long as they're led by such people, from any nation. Is it from my people where I come from or from the people of others who need to find a compromise here and make this country function according to the way those who want to live here. Those who don't want to, they've already shown, by me, and through property records, I can see it and they should be wondering why they're doing it. These are reasons why I, as an MP in front of the Democratic People's Union, will now not give my vote and support to the proposed candidate for the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15258	Thank you. What I'm saying is, in front of the professional service, I've been informed that Hyat and OBM TVs are here, that the BHT team is there, along with the journalist and cameraman, that BH has been on the radio all day with a direct inclusion line. So much for those who wanted to have information. Currently they have signed up in this order: Honored MP Lagumdžija, Izetbegović, Bešlagić, Matić, Novaković, Kadrić, Genjac. Dear Ambassador Bećirović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15259	Dear Chairman, given that at the beginning of today's session I protested what this Parliament is doing contrary to the Rules of Procedure and the opposite of the conclusion it adopted, here is what counterpart Halilović was talking about in his discussion, and you have now told us something – let's clarify that? At the very least, is there a direct transmission of this session or not? As far as we know, there isn't! That's right. And don't create any illusions here now - there's media here! One dark was introduced into this parliament, among the 42 MPs. The people who have elected this parliament cannot see what is being done in this House. That's why someone should be responsible in this country. In the U.S., two channels carry: one Senate work, another the work of this other body. You do not have any countries in the EU where there is no direct transfer, you do not have any more BiH neighbours who have no direct transmission, but in this country there is a need for darkness that people do not see what those who have chosen are, whether these people here in the BiH Parliament, all of us and these people do not have the opportunity to follow Parliament's work in a transparent manner, and that should be said very clearly, and not to talk about whether someone has come for a minute or 28 minutes or two, which they will give on some informative shows. People do not have the opportunity to follow Parliament's full work and it needs to be clearly established.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15260	I don't know what the replica was in. I didn't say it was a direct transmission. I just passed on what professional services here gave me as an explanation for the questions that were asked here. Please, next up for the discussion, Reverend Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15261	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if Mr. Izetbegović would like to? I see, I just realized that he, I've been waiting, I thought people in front of the ruling parties would come out and support this, this prime minister. And there's time, there you go. If you want to, bakire, before? All right, well, since I'm being seen, I'm expecting what they're going to do with great patience, unfortunately, we're going to have to do this. I am one of the people who has taken his vote and voted against the election of the minister, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Špirić, above all, as a man who is an extraordinary personification of such a ruling coalition, but precisely such a presonisation of the ruling coalition, with its contents, something that is totally unacceptable to us and it is not a secret. It doesn't matter if they're watching us anymore, how many of us they're going to take and whether they're going to! At the very least, one day all of this will be yesterday and it will take a few words to say and for the sake of what will remain recorded and past the daily policy. Each parliament chooses the government because the country wants to lead on the path of prosperity and, if it moves towards crisis, to remove the country from the crisis. We've really heard there's been a crisis here. Possibly. We won't just agree on what. And what's logical, and that's overcome is the crisis of this ruling coalition, which, here I am looking at Jerko, became six, he was seven a year ago, here's the six. So, there's been a crisis within the six, and that's not at all controversial. Unfortunately, the country's crisis has not been overcome. And new -- the old Council of Ministers is actually in some way a guarantee that this crisis will continue. The reasons why I was against were more or less the same. I thought some would be removed in this exposé. Now I hear it's an address. Some things have changed. A year ago, we got exposés on the tables. The chairman was proud of the exposés, rightly, because the exposé was full of big words, full of big expectations that we all had. There are no exposés on our tables today. The press hasn't even had an exposé divided in a couple of minutes. Is that it now, I don't know? Someone can read right now, so start commenting on what's in the exposé tomorrow, maybe it won't interest people that much. I asked the chairman a few questions today, and how he really told me in his own way that he had touched all my questions in his answers. And indeed man touched every man, and gave no answer that would be satisfactory. He couldn't touch it more than he could touch it. And he couldn't even answer those questions because he didn't have them. Does the chairman of the Council of Ministers have an answer to the question: will February 15th, when a deadline is given for the laws of some, just some, police reform, will this, for example, say the Mostar Declaration Action Plan say that the law will be passed... for 29 schools or, say, an independent committee? He could have touched at least one thing. Whether it will be an independent police committee in BiH or at BiH level. He could have answered the question whether it would be a SIPA and DGS education facility or whether it would be the police in BiH. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer. From this we have seen that we are actually left without a clear vision, a strategy, without answering the question of priorities: who will do what, until when and how? Today we attended – the truth I did not because I was on the Commission, I am sorry – today we attended a kind of unity of the ruling coalition on three laws. All three of them, they fell. Two for the RS, one for the Federation, as already said. But that temporarily damaged idyll of the morning will be exceeded in a few hours when we vote. And then there will be enough votes from the Federation and the RS and we know it well, but it's time to say something. I won't say it again, it would be good if it were you who discussed it a year ago, at least you from the ruling parties, that you remembered from the record what you asked Špirić for and why you said you voted for him. You said you were voting for him because he put an emphasis on restoring the economy and a self-sustaining economy, because he would introduce subsidies and cut taxes. You even said, there was a grudge against the gendarme, so the next time the gender gets better balanced, it's like getting past you this time, but next time it won't. We'll see if this gender changes in a week? If a national commitment can be changed, which could not be changed by half. True, another medical problem needs to be solved, but that is also possible. We'll see what it looks like. Also, that's when we heard from the man who's going to talk behind me that at the end of the year, that's a test for this Council of Ministers, at the end of the year, we're going to review it, see how far they've thrown, and then we're going to replace them, if we have to. They switched themselves, I'm really interested in where they threw it? At that time, we are accused of voting for this government by the ruling party, most importantly in this country, because it deals with an economic story, not empty stories. That's when we talked about taking away the looted property, that's when the chairman told us, I won't talk about it at all, God Bog, we don't have time for that, but let me remind you. At that time, it was said to reduce the alarming foreign trade deficit. By the way, in this year's trade deficit is over 10 months higher by over a billion marks compared to last year's, and things will be bigger by over two billion marks than they were last year. We were told in an exposé of the chairman that we would be offered a differentiated VAT rate. It was not even offered to Ivanic before the elections to win that rate. We were also offered here last year in this exposé that it will be seriously considered and that special attention will be given to the adoption of the law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property. What's in it for us? More or less, we're familiar with it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say with great regret that I am sorry that this opportunity that Nikola Špirić had not been used to really shake things up and keep this coalition together, just to shake it up and start doing it a little more seriously. I asked today and I want you all to know, the Council of Ministers Act I've appointed the chairman, I haven't received an answer. From the authentic interpretation that you can find on the website of the Council of Ministers Act and the Council of Ministers Act, which was imposed by the High Representative, nothing has been moved compared to what Mr Špirić had problems with his resignation. Somebody get me a sentence specifically of what it said in the decision of the High Representative, and then in 30 minutes it was changed when it came to the Council of Ministers Act. So that condition hasn't changed. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to this matter, we all concluded, including the High Representative, that it had come out to meet the High Representative. So we had no reason why Mr Špirić's resignation would be changed. I also have to say here that I asked you to give me an answer to the question: Is it the action plan... of the club, is it a new programme? Unfortunately, however, I have no answer there either. What I was worried about, since I didn't have, unfortunately, the exposés as last time, if I understood correctly, let me correct Mr. Špirić, here remains on the one, on those goals from a year ago, and here he listed only some, an emphasis on some priorities that are not quite so realised and that he won't give up. It's clear here that it's the police, that the public administration reform, the tv service, would like to tell me if it's a third channel or something. And co-operation with The Hag? I concluded from that, compared to last year's sorry, it is this year's still exposé, but from the beginning of the year, here at the beginning of the year priorities were also police reform, the priority was to curb corruption. Does that mean he's out of priority now? And we would do well to know whether this will be the Council of Ministers and whether the prime minister intends to co-operate with the OHR anti-corruption team that is now announced, in what way it will be fenced from dealing with NGOs who are trying to introduce a little more order in the fight against corruption. What also turned out to be a relevant programme goal here, which is, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the Constitution, the Constitution of BiH and constitutional solutions. Does this mean that the Council of Ministers is giving up, I know that they didn't keep what they promised a year ago, and does that mean now that they've decided that we don't mind them doing it anymore because it's no longer their goal or it's something else! And finally, just to remind you that in your priorities were regulation of the BiH border issue and ensuring implementation of the Agreement on the Success of Assets and State Property Status? At least that's fresh as far as we throw it. I'm not going to talk about Corridor Vc, but it would be good if he told us the chairman of the Council of Ministers what he knows about it. Why did the minister in charge, with his consent, act as he acted on the EBRD's offer to give a 300m-euro loan to the appropriate primary highways and traffic stations, above all on Corridor Vc? Is it because foreigners are told to know how many miles a nation will be, and only then will it be won or have another? And finally, Mr. Chairman, I wish I had an answer that maybe the best thing for everyone to ask of us, and maybe one of the people who hears what we talked about once will set themselves up. This year we could see that 500 million marks were collected more than indirect taxation than planned, so at least the director of the Directorate for indirect taxation told us. My question is in itself, and I'm sorry that the Prime Minister didn't ask us all a question, and so did he: What would happen to the 500 million, where did they go, what did he think of them doing? And not to talk about a whole series of issues concerning public administration reform that this Council of Ministers has gone deaf and I hope that I will not, Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance, hope that I will not make him unhappy, because I will say that for every commendation, it is what he has done both in front of this Parliament and in the Finance and Budget Commission, that it stands at the end of one unspeakable behavior. If this is the reason why he's not here in the new council, I can only apologize to him for it. I would do my very best to make sure that anyone who is the victim of an unnatural regime is, however, being Bakire, eventually rehabilitated. There, thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15262	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15263	So, I think we have one correct opposition, a joke aside, a correct opposition, maybe worse, it could be... even worse! However, the opposition's job is easy: to search for holes in cheese and to claim that the glass is half full, missing, that it could have been better and so on. And the job of position, of those who make power? Here, it's from Dejton: it's a more serious and difficult thing, isn't it? I think the fact that 17-18 years ago we had a collapsed, collapsed, political system collapsed, a collapsed artificial economy that, by its weight, broke itself. You didn't hit her on the side, she collapsed herself, did you, and then... we had some influence, some armies that crossed from the east and west, armed, divided these people, so we had four years of war where those three nations were divided into three armies, right? For four years it's been fought, there's been hatred here. Eh, then after that it was worth making... a power that would make these three people... do something functional, so attract investment into one country... a lot of tension, uncertainty, crisis. He won't have capital to come to where he's insecure, and then it's expected, without that there's no state development. She crossed us, the state, charged us with the $24 billion then, no more loans. Let's build you a road with no credit, shall we? Well, it was worth it to solve it and go forward and we have constantly this impossible mission that... to do it and normally that it's easy to criticise that it's not enough, that it's not good enough, that it could be better and so on! It could be better. Our esteemed prime minister or chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić, Dr Špirić, likes to use the word challenges. I think he's really going to face the real challenge now, because here you see how the opposition discusses and I already see these headlines in the media the next day, is he, who's going to mark us as one unserious power with you at the head. You will be told that you are a man of beautiful words and beautiful,...after which no action follows, is it, therefore, empty words that do not follow works. So I don't think you're going from zero, to go from minus because a lot of that January exposé didn't work out. Now, the challenge is whether, to deny them and prove to them that you are a serious man and that this Council of Ministers is one serious Council of Ministers and I wish you success here and I promise you full support on this trip, so to prove ourselves to be a serious authority and you as a serious man and this Council of Ministers as a serious Council of Ministers. About that story from a moment on, who took this people one year of life, who 50? She wasn't good last year, she was supposed to be better. I thought it would be better, but there's a signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement, a gross national product raised by about 11%, a 12% salary, industrial production by 10.5%, an export strongly increased but re-romitarians and machines are very imported, it's a good introduction, pensions by 20%. So we're still going with that 10%-a-year average in all those circumstances that I just counted. When you hang all those balls by our feet and necks, you go ahead anyway, and I think you'll go faster and better. That old system is meaningless to talk about, it's long gone, but there it is, though, the fact is that it's like that kid's game. You know, man, don't be mad, you make an entire circle and bring you back. ... That's what happened to us. The market economy, after all, had to replace that dictated, one-party system had to fail to replace it with this parliamentary discussion and life – where you have competition, where you can replace someone. Where the roads and 32 railways were made, but while they would have made me in that former Yugoslavia a mile, in these developed normal states a rule of three or four kilometers. We had 300-400 marks, and 3-4 thousand marks, a million of them were gas-bitters from that former Yugoslavia, so they went looking there. I want to tell them! After all, they said: so this isn't working, this is failing, it should go back, it can't be a single-party system, it has to be a market economy and this parliamentary democracy and Jovo again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15264	Thank you. Someone had a replica. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15265	At first, I was naively happy when Mr. Izetbegović praised the opposition, then I realized whether, beware... when the gifts are worn! Mr. Izetbegović, the job of the opposition, at least us, is not to look for holes in cheese, it may be your perception of the opposition. We're, unfortunately, trying to find out if there's any way to get you to at least find some cheese, not just a hole. It's our business with this kind of power. You really need to accuse us in this House of events 17-18 years ago. And now I want you to know, so it doesn't fall to me by heart, I've entered politics behind you, I've entered politics in the '90s, struggling to be... a system this, that there are first free multiparty elections and I have the legitimacy and legality to talk about democracy and I want to remind you once again: 17 years ago in BiH there were 1 million and 40,000 employees, of which 640 thousand worked in production. Today, in all of BiH, you have 640,000 people, and only 220 thousand are working in production. Today on the territory of the Federation of BiH, there are so many people that, probably, if you heard your explanation, how much the pensioners are paid and how much the GDP is, they would be glad to finally come to that country that you see in your stories. At the very least, on the territory of today's Federation, '91. The year has been as busy as it is today in all of BiH. As for one mile of road in our country and three kilometers of them – that's the problem? Today one kilometer, I'm going to give you relevant statistics: one kilometer that we make, in those countries, that used to be three to our one, they're now building 33. And it's no problem that we're going slow than they're going fast. And finally, to be clear, that state you say we left you with a $24 billion debt, it was called Yugoslavia. BiH had much less where BiH was – this is Professor Hadžiahmetović, I am sure he can teach you if you are at joint meetings to discuss this – was one of the few republics of today's countries that had a payment surplus and a trade surplus compared to abroad and other countries. Today, that pay deficit and the trade deficit, like I said, is bigger than ever. And in the end, you cannot, Mr. Izetbegović, escape from responsibility by telling Mr. Špirić: With you, Špirić, at the head! No, Špirić is not in charge here, Špirić is just the chairman of your Council of Ministers. He really is, Mr. Izetbegović, headed. You're the biggest party with those who are also big, no matter how big their parties are. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15266	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15267	So, I don't know if people would think they were living in heaven if they heard me say it. I'm just saying that we're trying because under difficult circumstances we're working and here we go with about 10% forward. And if they heard you, then they'd think they were really living in a beautiful country that didn't collapse. She collapsed, she collapsed, that's a fact. You know, my colleagues, here I remember them well, they went to Unioninvest, to Energoinvest for some 200-mark salary to drink coffee in the morning. There was no job, they were on the payroll, but there's no job. They went, it was a fictitious job, there were 100, 200% more than they were supposed to be. That's why they had an expensive and unquality product that wasn't competitive, so it all went down one day. In Zenica, in Tuzla, 10% of the young could not join the army because their health suffered from this good industry. After all – it is all a fact of history – failed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15268	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. The answer to the replica, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15269	Well, first of all, I don't lamentate over a state that broke because grenades from that country, Mr. Izetbegović, hit me directly, not you, so there's no need for you to give me a speech on the subject. That's one thing. And secondly, there is today in Tuzla, just so you know about your information, the Tuzla pool was the most competitive pool in Southeast Europe from the employment point of view because it had the first pool in Southeast Europe that formed so-called. clusters in which the entire industry has been interconnected and that, more or less, is not a controversial matter. I don't laminate anywhere near the political system, but for the economic efficiency that was 'Lamborgini' compared to what we have now, and even our ministers think it's just embarrassing for them to praise me like that. And finally, one thing I forgot, but since you're already making me do some completely left-handed things that, by the way, are completely incorrect, I suggest you see this stenogram and I'm obliged to correct you. You can go somewhere in Strasbourg, when you go there, say we signed a Stabilisation and Association Treaty! We didn't sign it like you said, we initialed it. If Bog did, here's the President of the Council of Ministers said we'd sign it next year, so you and your discussion of successes rushed! But you know how because strangers can think that you don't even know what happened to us, so you might want to get some termological things in line. If you want, I can give you a very comprehensive statistic of what we can further talk about on a flat foot. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15270	Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15271	... take off my glasses through which 'Jugo 45' looks like 'Lamborgini'. You're gonna give me those glasses so I can take a look at the world with them. So those glasses of yours, when you look at South 45, that it seems to you to be ‘Lamborgini’, you'll let me look at it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15272	Thank you. Now we've got a little problem, take it easy. I, on purpose, did not want to warn you but you will have to look at the Rules of Procedure – Rule 70, the new one – which we adopted, the one who did not impose on us the high representative, where you have the right to report for the replica and the incorrect quote only twice. You, Mr. Lagumdžija, have used your right to do so, you have no right to report within one item of the agenda. That's why there's someone else if they have the right to answer, if they don't, you don't. You're only right twice, twice. You're twice, the story's over. The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Bešlagić. Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15273	No, no, I'm not going to replicate, I'm not interested in that. Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, a respected candidate for the Council of Ministers President, respected friends, I would be happy today if we had discussed the results achieved in 2007, not the re-election of the old Council of Ministers chairman. For my discussion, I opted for one simple reason that by accepting Mr. Špirić's statement of resignation, I thought he was principled, so in his first presentation, which he had, he said some things that made him resign, but the next day he said the real reason. In fact, Mr Špirić did not have the support of the Council of Ministers, which is a fact, that is, he could not have been the first among those he chose or, rather speaking, to be set up by coalition parties. Based on everything exposed, based on the fact that of all the measures Mr Špirić has put on, I would say, the accent for which he resigns, I have tried to really, getting into these things, to see that, for example, from what Mr Lajčak imposed on Parliament, 99.5-9% are the measures that Lajčak proposed, and 0.01% are what they agreed on. So if they took it for themselves, the opposition parties or politicians, as their own, here they are, and as far as this second part, as part of the Council of Ministers, I don't think there's been any change. I'd ask myself another question. I understood Mr Špirić that he said that what he had in his first exhibition: that these are measures he still accepts as an obligation and that in this second part he has given some other tasks. But I'd rather ask Mr. Špirić without him telling me, but I know he won't be able to say it. When is the next phase of resigning, when is the next phase, I would say, causing a crisis in this country or here many have said that they are pessimists that will execute what he said here in the exposé, that they will? I'm an optimist that none of what's said will happen. It's a negative optimist, and I'm never negative, so I'll say next. I would ask that in my performance or 35 better said in the search, because today we are not discussing the new members of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, we are today discussing Mr Špirić's candidacy, that, by respecting his position in his second exposé in resigning, he is trying to present the Council of Ministers' composition that could accept the commitments he made in his exposé. If Mr. Špirić proposes the same candidates, then I must say that I do not expect major changes. I don't expect, I don't expect any near realization of this all said! But if in his candidacy, his or her own, people who should be in the Council of Ministers for whom he resigned, make any change that would be adopted by the opposition, or the positioning forces, I would be a happy man and I could say that gives me the guarantee that Mr. Nikola Špirić is principled. That is why I, surely, is what we have said: we will not vote for Mr Nikola Špirić! But here, today, if he stays at his first presentation and today's supplement, I will support and support all the forces to realize these programs. But let me never be an opposition to criticizing what hasn't been realized the same way everyone should. So don't think of us as critics for criticism, think of us as critics to fix something, and that Nikola Špirić would be the new chairman, because you can vote it, you have the majority, you allow him to create such an ambience and such a structure of his staff to come to the realization of these projects. Then we as an opposition will give you absolute recognition but surely by that moment, if it is without results, we will be pessimistic. So again, I stress, I am a pessimist, that unless there is a change in composition, in the structure that led Nikola Špirić to resign, that something will change. It's my deep conviction, I'd like to be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15274	Thank you. I just want to remind the MPs that Mr Špirić has been appointed by the Presidency and that we are here today discussing the approval, or confirmation of his appointment. The next honourable MP, Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15275	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers in resignation, you see, it's good that today's exposé of the chairman has been followed by so many ministers or, let's not say, ministers in this number. It's really a problem that not all the ministers were sitting here today, and they'd probably be sitting here if Mr. Chairman was in a position to propose ministers. Then it would be important for them to be here today. But here, you see, if I didn't cause any... reaction, that I wouldn't cause any replica, I'd sign what I'm going to say further with no comment. I read: November 1, 2007, Onasa: I am afraid BiH does not pay prices and regional promotions. The leaders in BiH are not committed to the country but to the international community, and these are two opposing colossians. The country's governance mechanisms cannot be held by the international community, and I hold responsibility in my hands. November 36, "Srna“: If they want me to manage, I am the only one in this country to establish the principle of responsibility for the exercise of power, not the principle of responsibility for the failure of power, because we need to know who is government and who is responsible for the situation. Nebojša Radmanović, Radio Free Europe, interview: What was a problem in the functioning of the Council of Ministers is the work of a number of ministers who acted irresponsiblely. 10.12., Milorad Dodik: The composition of the Council of Ministers is a matter of Nikola Špirić and the assembly majority but I think it is best that all the ministers so far remain because it is easier to work with them than with someone new. 22.11. If the president wanted to strengthen the role of the presidency, why is it not said: if the ministers do not follow the mandate of the chairman on his programme adopted by Parliament and leading to European integration, the chairman can change one-third of the ministers and there would be law on sports and drug laws and the law on anthem and coat of arms, because then the ministers would say to their leaders: if we are against the law, the chairman will replace us. What else are you offering? To provide strength to the Council of Ministers? BiH is not a sovereign state, BiH has been sovereignly managed by international institutions for 12 years. Representatives of the authorities elected in the elections are actors of the government. They should be guilty of failure. The High Representative deals with social policy in our country. He is obliged to implement the civilian part of the Dayton Agreement, not to amend the BiH Constitution. I am the first chairman of the Council of Ministers since the signing of Dejton to resign. Others can't get off-site with tanks. I resigned to warn the state of the country. My resignation, since I filed it in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and it cannot be debated, can be about the conditions if people realize that something in our country needs to be changed. With me, I can't count on the same conditions to be both deformed and responsible! If they think I'm doing a good job, then they'll give me more authority to make the country work. I don't want to be the man who's going to manage the failure. 3.11.2007: I do not want to stay on this post without the support of those who have contributed to making this move, Špirić said and estimated that the next days are crucial to BiH. He said the BiH presidency acted similarly as a high representative for BiH when he was not invited to the session to explain the reasons for his resignation. They scheduled a session without allowing me to explain the reasons for my resignation. It was not Nikola Špirić who decided how he decided because the day was sunny or rainy, but because he was deeply mistrusted by the BiH Council of Ministers. No comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15276	Thank you. Next to discuss, Ambassador Kadrić came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15277	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 37 So I'm going to say a few sentences very briefly. I will give my vote to approve Nikola Špirić's appointment as the chairman of the Council of Ministers and it is good that he has again accepted that candidacy and, when it comes to these matters, I have no dilemmas. What do I want to stress in this situation? What Špirić said at the end of his presentation, which is: he said there would be greater and better co-operation between the Council of Ministers and Parliament. Indeed, in the future, I expect this co-operation to be more concrete, more efficient and fruitful and I expect that this co-operation will be more effective in the future work of both the Council of Ministers and Parliament. I would like to point out here and expect the Council of Ministers to give greater attention to the protection of state property in the future because we are witnessing that this state property is being hijacked by the entities and that, in some ways, this state property is in danger and in this sense, I expect more protection of state property from the Council of Ministers and the implementation of this Agreement on Succession. I also expect the Council of Ministers and this Parliament to work more effectively to implement the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, in such a way that everyone will return to their homes and, in the future, in particular, when we discuss this budget for the next year, that we will give this issue more attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15278	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15279	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I must admit that with some bitterness I speak of this subject and attend this session today, for the reason that I think there are elements of a certain farce here, unnecessary to this Parliamentary Assembly. Namely, I think Mr Špirić, with the elements of these events that were, if he had already agreed to a new mandate and with the cabinet as predicted, could also withdraw his resignation so that all these discussions and... discussions and work commissions etc. replaced by a conversation, let's say, on how we will meet the conditions set out to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in a few months or how we will meet the medium and long-term, i.e. the short and medium-term conditions and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, i.e. the integration of BiH. Unfortunately, in some ways we are saving Mr Špirić's credibility in that way that we are talking about it, and I think that Mr Špirić will take into account the fact that he is putting himself in the position of Parliamentarian and would he, as a parliamentarian, agree to this role and take his place in that position. I would be happier if the reason for our support or non-support of the prime minister was what has been done over the past year so that, regardless of the internal and inter-party conditions of various species within the parliamentary majority, what has been done to the Council of Ministers in the past year, and not to be vice versa, it has already said inter-party conditions within the parliamentary majority. But it is so in our BiH, with all its specificities. We have to, in some ways, give a new loan no matter what the result was this year. It's a reality. There have been complaints that he is not attending the Parliamentary Assembly by ministers and deputy ministers, even when parliamentary issues are asked what is the obligation of the entire Council of Ministers. There have been complaints that certain ministers do not spend two days a week in Sarajevo, there have been complaints that Mr Špirić, as head of the 38th orchestra, has failed to launch the machine in real capacity. These are all the realities that we have to say in this situation. Conversing today with Mr Špirić at the appointment committee, we have managed to touch, as has already been said, or to launch some concrete questions. I want to talk about the Council of Ministers' promises. It has been promised that members of the Council of Ministers will attend the session of Parliament, that this co-operation between the Council of Ministers and Parliament, i.e. the Parliamentary Assembly, will receive those dimensions which are both commercially defined and the Council of Ministers Act and which must be as they are. It was further promised that the Council of Ministers and its ministers would deal with the matter on an up-to-date basis and create an up-to-date agenda at the session itself. It has also been promised that this programme, which is before us and which is our obligation, will be kept up to date. I have expected, I must admit, in the very address of the candidate, namely the nominated President of the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers in today's address that there will be a little more concrete things. In what we have heard today: intent and commitment, good intentions and good commitment indeed has two mandates. However, I think of this situation, especially the specific appointment situation after a year, the re-nomination, the situation in which we are, the deadlines in which we are, I think there have been times and reasons and space to offer an action plan for meeting the obligations, for signing the agreement and for meeting both the short- and medium-term commitments of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Action plan with deadlines, executioners, targets, etc.- I'm sorry. I think it is a way... to evaluate the work of the Council of Ministers and that it can be successfully monitored by the Parliamentary Assembly because the definitions set up like this always leave space to be said - the solution is ongoing. And that resolution can be next year, that year, and that at the end of the term of office, we have found that nothing has been achieved in this resolution. We must, therefore, have, we must, we must, have an action plan with deadlines, executioners, the plan of how it is intended, because we simply must not allow ourselves to waste time after this year which still characterizes a lot of waste of time, if it has not already been done. I think, I know that the Directorate for European Integration is working on a programme for BiH integration. They summed up and fulfilled obligations and stabilisation and fulfillment of obligations... To sign the Stabilisation Agreement, they are working on a programme of BiH integration and the Directorate will do so. I think that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, of course, should it be confirmed, etc., that we should have that in mind and that in the beginning of next year we should have this action plan in front of Parliament. At the same time, I'm going to do a little more banal thing than these world policy issues. I have today also asked the Commission for the chairman and requested his relationship to ensure conditions for the work of the Parliamentary Assembly because this is related to the Council of Ministers. By ten MPs sitting in rooms of 20 squares and when a journalist comes, we ask a fellow member to come out to make a statement to the press, etc., etc. No committee chairman in the Parliamentary Assembly has his own office, his own room! On the other hand, in this same building that is owned by the Parliamentary Assembly, or assigned, belongs to the Parliamentary Assembly, even the deputy ministers have cabinets and the heads of their cabinets have rooms. So, I am warning this question and that the future chairman has this in mind that, simply on principles, quality criteria are worth all of, the space has to be laid out, where conditions must finally be finally provided for the work of the Parliamentary Assembly during which we are coming because, simply, we will have a huge number of jobs and the Parliamentary Assembly of 39 and its commission, of course, and the Council of Ministers. The building's new and I don't see why it's late for that question! The next thing I want to point out at this point, it is, therefore, directly related to the Council of Ministers. The Directorate for European Integration, which of course has its own meaning, which, at this point, has, also in very limited conditions, several officials in the same room! Material, personnel, etc. The conditions are very bad and I think that in this... action plan and what we expect: the Council of Ministers' concrete plan for next year to find places as well. Specific things, concrete intentions, deadlines, and a concrete program for next year! When delivered to us, we will be able to assess the quality work of the Council of Ministers at the end of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15280	Thank you. I just want to warn you that we have a little problem. So, the Commission was tasked only to verify whether all the conditions prescribed by the BiH Council of Ministers' Law were met... The House of Representatives for appointment as chairman of the Council of Ministers, which we received according to the Presidency Decision. We have the fact that first the Commission is asking these same questions now and here. So she's been working on the subject of having a double discussion. First, we waited for the Commission for two hours, and after that, we transfer this same debate here to Parliament. I think that the Commission should have done a part of the job just to see if the conditions for appointing were met, and that we are then discussing this debate here in Parliament which would simplify our discussion here today. But here, since he asked for a replica of Honourable Ambassador Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15281	You see, colleagues, it's not, it's not correct to ask for deadlines from the chairman when you're proposing ministers to talk about deadlines. Well, you're the one who's proposing deadlines, no matter what I think. But the chairman does not chair the Council of Ministers but the Alliance of Ministers. I even think he has the will, the will to do, perhaps greater than all ministers or together or individually. But you, Mr. Genjac, will propose the names of ministers who will give deadlines, unfortunately, and will not chair. And one of those ministers that you're proposing last time discussed the opposite of the chairman. So it's not, it's not correct, gentlemen, today it's the kind of thing you're talking about, and tomorrow you're gonna be the ones who set the deadlines. Unfortunately, your minister will probably not set deadlines either, but someone will set deadlines for him.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15282	Dear Ambassador Genjac. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15283	Very short. The Commission has a mandate to assess the similarity of the candidate under the law... One of the procedures is to ask the candidate and the conversation and therefore it is not disputed. After that, he assesses as well as any MP. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15284	Is the question related to the exposé or to its similarity?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15285	The question concerns his intentions, his plan, his exposés. That, Mr. Chairman, does not exclude the right of every MP at the plenary session to ask questions to the nominated candidate in the field of exposure. There's no problem with that. As for this reaction by colleagues Novaković, I fully agree with you, only with one fence. The chairman of the Council of Ministers should address Parliament and say when some of the ministers fail to fulfil their obligation. Then as Parliamentarians, we can carry out our duty. Whether or not it will be decided whether or not, we do not know, but if one of the ministers is not doing his job, the chairman is here to warn Parliament and then we can react.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15286	Thank you. Next up for discussion, honourable Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15287	Thank you. .../Shortly interrupted recording that I will give my voice to Dr. Špirić, although we are not satisfied with the effect of the Council of Ministers in the previous period. However, we need to know what was the political environment and regional events... that had a strong impact on the work of the Council of Ministers and Governments and all of us here. These attacks, the opposition charges, I fully understand. They're the mourners we listen to every day, and they're nothing but trying to get the loser to power. In no democratic country losers... to power. So I guess BiH's democratic state, the free democratic elections were, the people chose power for themselves, the people believed in that power. If this government does not work well, another government will come next time. And how did they work? They had once had a chance: from the Alliance for Change, they made an Alijansa for Persecution, chases! And you're right, colleague Lagumdžija, when you say - how long did she throw this power? A little, much less than you. You threw it all the way to Guantanamo. When you were Prime Minister and Minister, you expelled innocent people all the way to Cuba. That's where you threw it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15288	Please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15289	It's a discussion, part of the agenda! I would like to thank the six, international community and High Representative Lajcak for the European way and for paraphrasing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I think it's the best thing that's happened in this period, that every work and result is measured by effect. We know the opposition SDS and SDP didn't vote, normally. For 41 of me, they're not in favour of the European way, and they're talking and dissipating demagogy here. I'm glad Bosnia-Bosna-ekspres with six headed for Brussels and Europe. How long will this trip take, when we get there, depends on us? Six drives to Brussels, but without SDP and Lagumdžija. You had a chance, you could have done it right by now, when you were in power. So far, we would have... an agreement, a signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You said the international community, the opposition! Well, I've got the same thing here, and I've brought in an article where the High Representative says that the opposition is sterile, barren, as it is said, we have no opposition at all. Here, it's right there. Look! It's a fine writing. Specially representing... SDP Zlatko Lagumdžija with a sick struggle for his own, he blocks democratic processes in society. So the international community, the high representative, the most investigative daily avaz, your favorite list you're reading. And, in my opinion, the main and most responsible culprit, believe me what, which is exactly, which is because of your sick ambition for power, Mr. Lagumdžija, you, just you, not the SDP, because you, by all means, by means of subjugation mercenaries, block every day all processes in this country, all projects. .... It's not him... unfortunately, we'll...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15290	Please don't...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15291	...we'll work without you and we'll make it. Your goal is clear, and I guess it should be clear to all of you: You aim to keep this government from doing anything for three years! That's your goal. I'm so sorry, you won't make it. Well, you have no... no programs, no ideas.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15292	We're talking about Mr. Špirić's exposé. [[Common discussion and laughter]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15293	Yours, your only strategy is to fight for the chair, for the government, nothing more. You laugh, so no one here is naive enough to get you. So what, the public knows that... You're scaring this people with some kind of crisis. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15294	Wait a minute, please, let her finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15295	My colleague, Bećirović, I think with my own head, unlike you who are... in a remote... Unfortunately, it's not your fault. I can only say one thing about how the opposition is headed by Zlatko Lagumdžija. I believe there will be a lasting opposition, that it will never reach power while Zlatko Lagumdžija is headed by the SDP and the opposition. 42 So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15296	Thank you. The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Dokić, and Džaferović, and Okolić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You've cracked your lines, unfortunately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15298	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I didn't think I was answering for the discussion but here we were pulled out, we were pulled out. I would like to remind you that today we are not discussing the composition of the Council of Ministers, but that it is on the agenda to elect the Chair of the Council of Ministers. Most discussed the current Council of Ministers chairmanship, from the position of the old Council of Ministers, and I must admit, here I am, that it has pulled me back too to look back in this context, but in relation to what needs to be done, here is a mandate, which we, I hope, will choose in advance to say that all PDP MPs will give support to Mr Špirić and it is my responsibility to... (Laughter) I guess I do, but here we all are really concerned about what's going to happen next year and what we're going to have Council of Ministers and, in that respect, I want to address the position rather than the opposition. Position, here I am now reading everything they have said, it seems to me that they are not expressing reservations towards Špirić, but are expressing reservations towards the congregation majority and according to the composition of the Council of Ministers that is expected. Špirić hasn't spoken yet, but we've heard, since we've already commented today, six of them will be an old council meeting of ministers. And there have been a lot of discussions on this issue on the Commission and I can say that most MPs have expressed their personal relationship with this issue in the context of the need for certain changes. Now, I'm asking the assembly majority here: will we give me a new mandate for the right to ask him to deliver at least two candidates for each ministerial post? If we give in this context support to the new prime minister, then we will have the right directly to ask him for responsibility for what the new Council of Ministers will do. If we absolutely deny him that right, then we will have again, as one of the opposition said, here I will quote him: He is not here at the head of the orchestra Špirić but are here at the head of the six party leaders who make up the congregation majority. And, in such a relationship of strength, I'm afraid we won't do much, much. 43 After paraphrasing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I wrote a column whose point was that all the winners, the winner and the High Representative and BiH, and in particular Nikola Špirić, were given a new mandate, because he was given the opportunity to get what he was looking for and could not get because of constitutional restrictions, which are greater powers. In the context of the new mandate, he has the opportunity to make certain and staff changes to the Council of Ministers, and that will be possible, here if we send such a message from here that we will give him the right to think in this context. And I need here, even though it's none of my business, to answer one question that's been asked here and here and at the Commission's session, which is about Lajcak's decision on the new Council of Ministers Act. I am not a party leader and I am not responsible for all of this, but this decision not only read but I also walked, so I say, that decision: there is one change in the arguments which is essential in nature, and it says: that the quorum of six ministers implies the mandatory presence of the chairman and two deputies. This is indeed a major change that guarantees that no people, such as the original decision, will be able to be voted upon, on the one hand, and that excludes the possibility that the vice-president will be chaired by a meeting of the Council of Ministers, without the chairman's consent. It's really a big change, here... I don't know or won't talk or won't read, but it's that change that's made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15300	Thank you. Now we have two replicas. Dear Messenger Ajanović, and Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15301	I think this is an unserious proposal that the professor suggested. No serious party in the world would ever allow more people to choose from their own party! It is logical, then, that he who presides will always choose the worst, for he will be able to manage it as he wills. Last night I listened to a debate on Croatian television for the city of Osijek where there was also a proposal to give more candidates and we will find, among ourselves! Well, that's, that's nowhere in the world to be done! There's no working in the parliamentary world! The party that gets a certain ministry, it proposes its own man, believing it has proposed a man who is from that party for the job and the best. But it's a short time, but there's something else I have to say. I personally think for these ten days, ten months that actually Parliament was one of the largest opposition to this government or, let's call it what we want, the Council of Ministers. All the laws that have come and are passed there by consensus have been completely changed here by 18 to 20 of these amendments have been passed for these laws and could not pass any law unless it has complied with certain changes. There's the core of the problem, the problem of everything here in this House. But in the Council of Ministers, there's a construction problem, which was made in Dayton, a crazy shirt that's drawn to BiH, and you, when you put a healthy man on a crazy shirt, he can never get out of it until someone helps him get rid of it. So, what we need to do is do what's proposed, those three things to join the Council of Europe, to sign that agreement, and as soon as possible to change the Constitution which I hope will make sense... 44 to overcome and to create a functional land where we will not be ourselves an opposition. The truth is, this is where the opposition and the position speak, so here is the position of the opposition. And you, the opposition is itself again, and that's why we have this kind of political power ratio in Parliament, that's on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that we have a really unnatural constitution. That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15302	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15303	About? I know, but, as I said before, I would violate the Rules of Procedure if I could give you more than two replicas within one item of the agenda. Within one item of the agenda! So it's a business provision. We can put, if Parliament agrees, not to put a limit on it, but such is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15304	Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15305	However, the false allegation and the same replica is in the same article in 70, article 13 of the amendment and addition of the new Rules of Procedure. So it's the same article for the wrong quote and for the replica, just twice within one item of the agenda. Dear Ambassador Nanić had the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15306	Well, I really didn't. I thought I'd keep it inside of me, but I can't get my professor's, systemic address, as he can say that here in this case we've got two candidates for each ministry; it would be good to start over, at least my conscience would be cleaner and I'd be more honest with myself and those I represent here if we'd also got two candidates for the prime minister, so I would; I would really tell you honestly why I'm going to support it – the only thing I'm part of that parliamentary majority! And by the way, what I've heard here, the demagogue we've heard for the third time and the words of politicians, without concreteity, what my colleague Genjac was saying, is really no reason to support such a project and such a way of working it should be.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15307	Thank you. I warn all MPs that they have an obligation to report to the chairman when they leave the session and say the reason for leaving the session. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15308	I don't know how the MP's memory doesn't serve that this time the Presidency -- which is tasked with appointing the chairman, forwarding that decision here -- had two candidates and that of the two candidates elected one. Secondly, it is not the same situation when the Council of Ministers is formed again and again in this case, with this situation where we have one-year experience in the work of the council, where the chairman has repeatedly pointed out some ministers and the difficulty of working with some ministers. So that's what Parliament knows. If we're not going to look at it now and see that fact, then we don't really want to change anything. And that's the responsibility of the position. I want to get that under control again. So it's not a choice here, giving the election specifically to the prime minister that he randomly chooses who he wants. It will again be a choice from those two, e.g., proposed by the party, which the ministry has chosen. So it is quite clear and completely democratic in this situation to provide an opportunity to make certain adjustments, to give us the right to tomorrow's chairman-in-Office to ask more openly for the implementation of appropriate programmes compared to what has been so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15309	Thank you. Dear MP Đžaferović is the next debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15310	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that we are in this situation at all today. I share the opinion of those who believe that we should not have been in this situation at all today but that instead of... here is the debate on the approval of Mr Nikola Špirić's appointment as prime minister for the BiH Council of Ministers, we are discussing some other issues concerning the realisation of what the Council of Ministers is doing and what Parliament is doing. But here we are, so I am not satisfied with the work of the Council of Ministers in the work so far, nor am I satisfied with the work of this Parliament, but I do not believe that only Mr Špirić is solely responsible for it or the Council of Ministers or just us. I think that this is the result of a general political climate in BiH and the key thing that we should do, which we should do – and I hope we are going in at that time – to create a positive political atmosphere in BiH, in which progress can be made and in which it is possible to make things that BiH is leading forward. In the bad political atmosphere, it is not possible to make positive steps. In a positive political atmosphere, it is possible to make these steps and I hope that we with that session of Parliament, when we adopted the Rules of Procedure... have started a phase and I hope that the time is coming for this positive political atmosphere. I call all of us here in Parliament on one kind of engagement. You know, I very often talk about BiH's specificity, how post-election alliances, coalitions, parliamentary majority. Well, we have more expressions for that thing. No, some don't want to say it's a coalition, some don't respond to post-election alliances, parliamentary majority, they're all nuances. To this extent, we have been trained, precisely because the situation in this respect in BiH is specific and I think that these specificities, of course, must be taken into account when we make decisions of this kind. The question of the Council of Ministers' composition, the Council of Ministers' question, of course, is the question and wills and wills of 46 political entities that make up the paramentary majority, but I think that the political will is determined by some of the details that have been drawn up and are in the structure of BiH, which Professor Ajanović spoke of in his own way before me. So that is the question, among other things, of the election result and the issue of BiH's constitutional structure. In the current situation, it is therefore quite clear that the state government must be composed of structures from which it is normally drawn up under our Constitution, and the existing election result is such that we are in a state where we are and, of course, I will support today the confirmation of Mr Špirić's appointment and ask again – therefore, Mr Špirić and ask him, the Council of Ministers and all of us here – to work on creating a positive political climate, in which it is possible to take steps..., therefore, steps, and the criterion is the European and Euro-Atlantic security path of BiH. So, to gather around meeting the conditions that this country needs to meet, to normally move on its European path and through EU membership and to normally move on its Euro-Atlantic security path, i.e. through NATO membership. And all projects coming from the Council of Ministers that are on the trail and are in line with those standards will have my support as MPs. All those projects that are not on this path - first, I call on them not to be those who will not be on this path and who will not meet the standards – they will not be supported by me as an apostle. I spoke here in Parliament last time I was appointed, and I said that my vote "yes" does not mean support all the time. I am very closely following the work of the Council of Ministers and the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, and I am prepared, and I have shown this after the first vote, that I also react in public if I think something is wrong. I called the Council of Ministers after seeing that in two months or three months, how much the Council of Ministers worked, I was not satisfied with the number of laws that came here to Parliament. One more thing. Since this parliamentary majority is being re-formed today, I would ask and ask for principled action. Today someone was talking about it and it really is a big problem in this House's work. If something comes from the Council of Ministers as a coherent position – I know that in BiH it is necessary to reach agreement on many things and without it it is not possible to bring projects – but if something is already achieved as a consensus and it comes from the Council of Ministers as a project of the Council of Ministers, a unanimous project by the Council of Ministers, do not, colleagues, then play hide-and-seek, then MPs of a political group are investing amendments that directly undermine the principles. So we have the right to amendments, no one can challenge us, but they undermine the principles that some things have been difficult to agree on. We have this kind of practice in many projects. If we do that, I think we'll go forward in this situation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15311	Of course it'll cause a replica. Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15312	Here I have tried to bring this in today in a dignified way, but I still have a few sentences to say, given the facts that are undeniable and which are first in play. The candidate for the Council of Ministers' Chairman, whether or not they wanted to admit it, was the first to introduce a standard in BiH, which is a resignation, as his personal act and attitude towards BiH and the 47 problems it was facing. Someone liked it or not! And that, in addition to the paraphrasing he put on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, is something that can't be denied. He showed his relationship. But today I get the feeling that some people have a voting problem, they have a problem with their conscience, and they want to impute it to him. That's not how it's supposed to work. One who has a problem with his party, at his club and with his leader, should not have that kind of problem to attract them to Nikola Špirić, but to act, eventually, as he did at one point. He used one of the democratic assets that each of us had at his disposal, but no one used it. He did and showed, likely, how he will deal with the challenges ahead in the future. In this country, one way is to succeed, and one hundred ways to create obstruction. And he can't cure these hundreds that are in the hands of others, so, among other things, we here and the entity presidency, and I don't know who. That is why it is incorrect for someone who has previously performed a certain kind of obstruction and, possibly, through some discussions of some possible new obstructions, to impute it to Mr Špirić, but everyone in this House will have the opportunity to show a relationship to the challenges that BiH faces, and I will not particularly explain that in this difficult time, in this time in which we have had many challenges, chairing, I hope, the new Council of Ministers has shown their relationship with all these challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15313	Dear Messenger Rajilić. You can wait and you'll probably get reasons for...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15314	Here's a very short one. You've seen the SNSD Club watch this debate today, and we're a little surprised at some people who come out and talk like this, but there's probably going to be a chance and a time to say it elsewhere what's going on. And my concrete remark, i.e. the replica: Mr Džaferović, I hope that what you said now, about the investment of the amendments, concerns both your club and your agreed views before the law is passed here before Parliament, so that we do not have the opposite opinions. So, I'd ask you to say that to your club, not to mention other clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15315	Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15316	So the principle is the principle. And if the principle is what I was talking about, then it's unprincipled if that principle applies only to someone and doesn't apply someone. The principle applies to all. So I figure or count on being a serious person and when I'm discussing, I know what I'm saying, right? I don't know, I didn't take Mr. Kalabić's statement as a replica, although you gave him your word, did, on the occasion of my exposure. And I have no intention of really answering at all. I think I've brought out only one real state where we're standing and I've expressed my views on what I think we should do. I, too, call on my colleague Kalabić, to work together to realise our European and Euro-Atlantic security path, in line with standards that need to be met by BiH for EU and NATO membership. Nothing more. So you'll have me as an ally here, too, for sure. That's it. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15317	Thank you. The next meeting was attended by Honourable MP Okolić pa Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15318	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the College, fellow MPs, dear guests, here I will try – given that this is a really serious topic: the election of a new prime minister and the post of the BiH executive government – to be as precise and as short as possible. Please turn on the microphone there that man loud and clear...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15319	Don't pay attention. Please don't throw away, let everyone talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15320	No, maybe he can say something secretly, maybe something public. Okay. So I'll try to be very brief. We have debated on the Commission today something that has nothing to do with Parliament because on the Commission we establish some principles and similarities, and here we decide... after the exposé, or I don't know something else, which Mr. Prime Minister put out, is it possible or not possible to function in the future. If I hadn't heard some correspondence before this time ago, perhaps eight or nine months ago, this is my opinion – and there have been some conclusions that the Council of Ministers does not operate all things the way they should operate in one country and that it is impossible to apply certain sanctions and therefore suffers and suffers certain consequences in BiH. We are witnessing various signs, various statements, etc. and various even withdrawals of institutional ones, when it comes to BiH. If that were not the case, I would say, here is the prime minister before us and he will have the opportunity to show himself with his Council of Ministers, as was the speech in January this year, when it is said: he has the opportunity to show himself with his Council of Ministers. However, today on my question – again, I am expressing my personal position and my conclusion – is he of the opinion that he will be able to get from political leaders, so to speak. The six who he and the others said, get a few proposals or at least two for ministers who are participating from that party?, I didn't get a convincing answer, I didn't actually get an answer that was possible. I got the answer that it was his wish, but it's about impossible and we all know that political situation in the country. That's why I'm a skeptic whether or not there will be any change, so I'm a skeptic that maybe in one year this parliament will be in the same configuration and in the same position that maybe we'll discuss this thing again, and I'm not sure it'll go again the way it would be best for BiH. I would support the Chair of the Council of Ministers immediately and if necessary – as the people say and with two hands – that he has the opportunity to choose his own associates or choose from several proposed associates. Then he would be directly and responsibly responsible for the people he chose and for the cooperation between them. 49 Since it will probably not be possible to respect, it is now a matter of the majority. I don't want to spoil the environment at all and I don't want to question the choice of the Council of Ministers in BiH. But I'm going to say on, I don't know, someone's exposure to the following, which is: it's not like all the political parties that need to give ministers to this government have only one candidate who's capable in that party who can perform the minister's duties. It seems to me that each party has at least two parties so that the argument that can't be given more candidates, because they only have one that they've fixed which, according to them, is the one that can be minister and none more, I see in each party by multiple candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15321	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić: replica. Wait a minute, wait a minute, now we're gonna end up quick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15322	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very briefly. I don't know what the opposition gentlemen think, as Mr. Okolić said - that a party has proposed two. There's ten candidates! What would they be different about? It's just that if someone is skinny, fatter, taller, shorter, what would change there? What's this all about, and what's your goal? Secondly, of course I warn them, here's another, to give you a proposal from the College if possible, and I hope today we will confirm Mr Špirić's appointment. I regret that there are no cameras, but if it is possible in the Rules of Procedure to make one intervention, so that every month we confirm the appointment of the Council of Ministers, and that these gentlemen, when the cameras are included, from the opposition, are shown to be the only ones in charge of caring for these citizens, for a better life, for Euro-Atlantic integration, for entering Europe, and that we from the parliamentary majority, here we are only obliged to choose and shut up and never report again! That's why I'm asking you and I'm really sorry that there's no television transmission for people to see that they're the only ones who care, and these from the Centre of Civil Initiatives, which I really respect, will today register that they've come except for Professor Malić and someone else who may have fallen behind, so they'll say they've contributed. They just made one confusion today that we could end up with, and none of them came forward, so here I am, Mr Špirić, was appointed, is that not dependent, fortunately, on them and why they are just trying to complicate every session. So please, I will repeat, the cameras to ensure that only the opposition is speaking, that they show that they are the only ones in charge of this country entering the EU tomorrow. So who doesn't want to? Everyone wants to. And I'm done. Of course, Mr. Okolić, I suggest that every club president from these parties of our partners give you one fifty names, so you choose for yourself who you want. You won't change anything because Mr. Špirić can't change that minister if he doesn't. And what will the party suggest to him? I said, and indeed because of the chairman merely suggest, he has no alternative but to see how tall, smaller, taller he is and when he comes and doesn't come. So don't repay this session, because let's get this over with. Thank you. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15323	Easy, easy. You'll all get your turn. Wait a minute, Novaković first answered, so Okolić, then Bećirović, then Bešlagić. Here you go, in that order.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15324	You see, I agree with – since this is my second replica, I will no longer have the opportunity – I agree with Mr. Jovičić that it does not matter who he proposes to chair, that it is less important whether there will be a dowry or one or five. But, Mr. Jovičić, the chairman asked that more candidates be proposed to him publicly so that he could choose one and propose here. The chairman, Mr Špirić, asked for it several times, his partner and the president of the PDP Club, Mr Dokić, also asked for it earlier. So, please, we're not asking to be two by two, we don't care how many candidates Mr. Špirić will be offered. Believe me, however, I agree with you. Whoever's there, don't think for himself, but for whoever suggested it, and he won't listen to Špirić, he'll listen to his boss.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15325	Thank you. It's a Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15326	Here's what I'll try very briefly. Some of it was taken from me by Mr. Novaković. Mr. Jovičić, I understand what you're saying, but you don't seem to understand the point. I wanted to say something else here, what others were looking for. First they asked for it from the position of the people. He also asked for your term in office. I wanted to help him. And the third thing, I'm not asking, I'm not asking, so remember that you, that they deliver it to us, that they deliver it to him, that he determine and that he says: I suggest it and so on, and here the House to plead. So there's a huge difference, you've replaced the thesis, well, I'm a little confused by man.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15327	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15328	A very short replica of my colleague Jovičić. Since he suggested we turn on the cameras, how, quote him, he said, "Let's hear what the opposition says." Here, I suggest a compromise solution to Mr. Jovičić: to include cameras but we don't have to shoot now but to rephrase the performances of people from your party from, say, a year and a half when you were in opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15329	Thank you. 51 Since we no longer have – no, no, no, just a minute, please slowly – the honourable MP Bešlagić has given up the replica,... so we no longer have the replica. We have an incorrect quote. Just a distinguished letter from Hadžiahmetović for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15330	Well, I'll try even though I thought today's session would look quite different since I assumed we all knew what it was about. However, some do not seem to know what it is! I'm glad to have the PDP back in the O.R. because whenever all PDP MPs get out of the O.R., I'm afraid we're not at the edge of the quorum. I am that we are in some normal situation today not only today, but here I am going to point out today, when we give consent to appoint prime ministers, taught previous experiences, and you will remember here were the representatives of the international community, diplomatic crust, civil society, a lot of Parliament employees, etc. And now that we're turning around and it tells us a lot that we don't have a very normal situation, so that's how we should treat ourselves. My kolega Špirić, I listened carefully to the opening statement again, of course, and I also brought him into contact with the previous opening exhibition, but I listened even more carefully to today's discussions about the state of BiH, about the economic comparisons of BiH and the Republic twenty years ago. This, in economic history, means 17 years ago and today, on the state within the Council of Ministers, the relationship between the Council of Ministers and Parliament, within Parliament between parties etc. and concluded, and with particular attention listened to the proposals and discussions of colleagues from the SDS who were indeed standing. I'll just remind you that these proposals are actually on the line of appointment of a normal government. The normal government, if we had a normal government, a normal prime minister, would have the opportunity to choose. So I would suggest to my fellow Špirić that since, God Bog, he can happen again very quickly in a situation like this to change the Council of Ministers and turn him into a government law and become prime minister of the normal government because he can be in the next... in a position to choose. And I'm glad the SDS suggested you just change that law. Secondly, I suggest you specify that over the next three to four months, three to four months of our obligations: four obligations to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Let me remind you: police reform, public broadcaster reform, public administration reform and co-operation with The Hague tribunal. There's a lot of work and a lot of trouble areas. If you appreciate that in April or May, the dates to sign the agreement would be targeted, put forward an immediate proposal on what needs to be done in the Council of Ministers and here in Parliament to end our obligations. Now we only have four, I'll remind you, most likely beyond that next 34. To be effective, let's start talking in a different way. Well, we can open all these stories as a matter of communication and efficiency of the work of state institutions, in order to improve, of course, to achieve, or become a normal country and achieve the level of institutional capacities that normal countries have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15331	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the debate. And I ask Mr. Špirić, does he need to answer any questions? There's no replica. The debate is closed, the debate is closed. Here you go. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15332	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, with the attention of course I listened to today's debate and there were many questions that the MPs asked each other. I don't want to get into it, but what, then, was the question: What changed from resignation to today? I think a lot of things have changed if we want this country to succeed. I am telling you that Nikola Špirić, who was irresponsible to this country, could not resign, but we would still be in crisis. There wouldn't even be a parade to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement! This Council of Ministers, which I've been running for eight months, paid the price of the failure of the political agreement, not because we didn't want to. And so after those resignations, the leaders sat down, there was the Mostar Declaration, the Action Plan, and we made a strong step, and that's why the treaty was initialled. No one has given us anything, nothing BiH will be donated on the Euro-Atlantic path. Today, in this address, I have said what our obligations are to obtain a passing assessment of the agreement at the end of February at the PIC meeting in BiH. After signing this agreement, we come to a quality new situation, the leaders of political parties, because they will have to meet, we all have to meet the conditions to get to candidate status and full membership. There will be fewer irrational political and political stories in BiH. I'm not afraid of you changing the Council of Ministers whenever you judge it doesn't work. And I am grateful to everyone who is ready for it and I liked the discussion of my colleague Džaferović, who I spent a long time with in the parliamentary benches. At least I've shown that I'm not in love with this function. And there will be more challenges on this road. But then I am convinced that we can finish and ask you to support your fellow political parties, who are in the task force, to get to the law. The Constitutional Court will end the story of the TV system very soon, I hope. I don't want to talk. I don't know what the solution will be. We've improved public administration reform, so I'm sorry no one's talking about the results. So, they signed an agreement with the entity prime ministers, formed a Public Administration Reform Fund, brought new people into public administration and did a lot of work, and we have to continue, because it's also assessed by the European Commission as a good job. Co-operation with The Hag? So all agencies have to do their best to get a positive grade. So that's four conditions and let's use the positive atmosphere to do it. The least important thing here is whether Nikola Špirić will be prime minister today. It's not! We have to finish this job. And I'm sorry that the complete procedure is repeated. You think I enjoy it. But it is also a democratic act that draws attention to the factors that something is wrong, that we must make a step, with or without me. And believe me, I may be one of the few people who's not in love, I'm only getting a bigger burden if you support me and I'm not afraid of that burden if we come and want to be the man who's going to sign the treaty for his country. Let me tell you right now: it's a challenge for both the opposition and every man who deals with normal politics. Why wouldn't he? But I also ask you to help MPs from the majority and opposition. What is not good, and it has been pointed out by colleagues, that the laws we adopt in the Council of Ministers, also by difficult discussions, will not be rejected within the parliamentary majority. It is impossible then to make a law that this parliament will adopt. Or it's very difficult. Niko one argues that they can give people amendments, both opposition and power. I won't influence how you work. But I ask you to support whoever is in the Council of Ministers. It is not a personal or purely personal problem of the Council of Ministers. You've seen: when there's a political will that we can do the job. And that is why it is a high-quality shift that leaders agreed to sit with the chairman at least once every two months and remove political obstacles that do not create transit within the Council of Ministers. And I have to tell you, I was in that meeting for the first time. Now that we have solved many things that will allow, no matter what composition the Council of Ministers will be, the passage of at least four or five 53 months. And there will be more challenges on the Euro-Atlantic road! Maybe the need for a resignation, I don't know! But that's not the worst thing for the state, we need to learn that it's a democratic act and that nothing will be ugly in BiH unless Nikola Špirić is chaired or removed and I invite you to do so. But this resignation opened a debate about our country. She said where the stops were, you all had a chance to say, everyone. And it's a new quality, and I don't think we've done anything in vain, no matter what anyone can say and there's been a waste of time. I'm sorry we weren't effective, I'm sorry! And you might think we've made a reform of the Constitution, but that's a political deal, it's working, it's going hard. So, we have to build a country like this to move day-to-day stuff. I'm ready for that. And I beg you, therefore, for all these words which have been expressed by both the authorities and the parliamentary majority and the opposition: I respect them. And it will certainly not be a problem for Nikola Špirić if we all show together and use this energy to come to the signing of the Agreement and, of course, do what economic reforms are and what is the interest of every BiH citizen. Thank you to all those who have spoken well and to those who have had a reserve and those who do not support me, it is all a democratic right. I have no reason to be angry. I have no reason to even look for an ideal situation for myself. I share the values that everyone in this country shares. Yeah, I, I don't mind making a government law, I don't mind, but there's no political will, there is no. I've spoken to the leaders of political parties. They say it gets in the Constitution and into the law. Well, when they change the Constitution and the law, I'm willing to comply with such a deal, but this was a way to draw out the impossible possible. So it's impossible to talk about the Council of Ministers as some government that has all the prerogative governments and I am about to define it and that there is a principle of responsibility for the exercise of power. But it's impossible for us in our country not to discuss the results after the paraphras of the Agreement. They're coffee, they're enough or they're small! But if there's no positive promotion of what we all do together, we're going to create a sense of imperceptibility. But it is not true: we move on the Euro-Atlantic path, it can go faster when it is more stable, when the political agreement is stronger. So I don't owe, so thank you all. You are wondering, in fact, today whether Nikola Špirić will be the chairman or not. And I expect, of course, those who support me, support in further work and the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15333	Thank you. Dear MP Bećirović: business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15334	Mr. Chairman, you have given us an interpretation that after the second presentation of Mr. Špirić MPs no longer have the right to report for the word. I have a section E right in front of me during the session, Article 76. (The debate on agenda points) On the basis of what it says in the Rules of Procedure and in Article 76, MPs have the right to discuss. If there is another member in this Rules of Procedure and regulates something different from what is written here, I ask you to read it to us. Otherwise, you should allow us to comment on what Mr. Špirić was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15335	This is also for who knows which time you insist on breaking the Rules of Procedure. Who knows which time I have to tell you that we in the College think we didn't break the Rules of Procedure? That we have concluded the debate and that 54 anyone who is not satisfied with the answer to the question he has asked in the debate can be determined according to his vote according to the appointment, i.e. the approval of the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić. And now I'm putting it to the vote. I think we got this. Please, I can't let you talk because we thought we'd solved it. We can't let that happen. Please, would you like to put your proposal to the vote? You want to put your proposal to the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15336	No microphone turned on. I've called on a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15337	You're not...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15338	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15339	Please, let's end this in the spirit of the way we're going. I ask the House to make a statement on whether we have concluded the debate and that we are no longer opening a debate on this issue? And to put on a vote on a agenda item called Approval of the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Please prepare to vote. We're about to go to the vote, to conclude the debate. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! Mr Bećirović, you cannot leave Parliament until you report to the chairman. You must report to the chairman here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15340	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-28-0.u15341	Of course. "For" 29, "against" three, "abstained" four. I agree that we have concluded the debate and that we are now voting on the approval of the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Nikola Špirić. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 28, "against" eight, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority -- I also find that we have granted the appointment of BiH Prime Minister's Chairman Nikola Špirić's Council. 55 please, one moment. So, I want to congratulate New Year on all the MPs, all the citizens of BiH and all the Orthodox people, I want a happy Christmas. We'll see you after New Year's. You biti be informed of the next session in due time. Thank you. The seat is finished at 17.05.
