ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15067	We are continuing the work of the 18th session of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Do we have 22? There isn't. Come on, please, call your clubs, your MPs to work. We have a quorum to work with. According to the service report, the absence was justified by: Adem Huskić, Sadik Bahtić, Halid Genjac, Salko Sokolović, Husein Nanić, Jozo Križanović, Denis Bećirović, Branko Dokić, Vinko Zorić, Mirko Okolić, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, Lagumdžija Zlatko, Jamakosmanović, is. Martin Raguž reported that he would be one hour late for the session. This session had to be scheduled today. I understand that people have taken their commitments, however, given the length of the discussions in the interrupted session Thursday, I ask you to consider this today and contribute to your discussions to bring this session to an end today, so that we can plan the next session, which is very important, on the 28th of this month. The agenda point on which we last stopped is point 25: Ad. 25. Report from the BiH institutions on the audit carried out in 2006 of the following institutions: (a) The institutions of the BiH Ombudsman, (b) the Commission for the property requirements of displaced persons and refugees, (c) the Commission for concessions of BiH, (d) the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments of BiH, (e) the Office for Foreign Affairs, (f) the Central Election Commission of BiH, (g) the Office for indirect taxation of BiH, (h) the Office for the Protection of Plant Health, (i) the Office for the Review of Appeals of BiH, (j) the Office for Veterinary Affairs of BiH, (k) the Office for Law of BiH, (DGS), (m) the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2006 2 So we have 13 remaining BiH institutions left -- reports on the audit that we are considering. You've received commission reports for these institutions, with conclusions and recommendations. I'm opening a debate on the audit reports. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15069	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, the audit reports of the state institutions are, no doubt, an important barometer of the rule of law. The audit findings are most consistent with the general state of corruption and crime in the country. I discussed in this house and made my observations during the debate on the report on the first group of BiH institutions' revision several months ago, and then I was very critical of the attitudes of responsible people in institutions, as opposed to, again, the findings of the audit. I also showed a critical relationship in one part to the auditors, thinking that their reports must be more concrete and with more analytical data on shortcomings as well as with names and last names of responsible persons. Then I got the impression that the audit reports had come down to a formal ritual of discussion in this house, after which they were copied or repeated year after year by year the same conclusions that do not bind or make anyone responsible. After such a debate in the hall, I had a brief discussion with the auditors who objected to my findings in the discussion, but of course they did not disprove them, but complained about the lack of serious debate and support for their findings and reports. Since that first debate on the first group of reports to this last group we are discussing today, I have not reported for a discussion on the audit reports, not because of the auditor's comments, but because each time I have to talk the same thing. I'd have to repeat the same shortcomings, the same questions, the same comments, etc. It's the same with this last group of audit reports, and I'm gonna spare us the repeats. I have to look back on something positive this time, however, in this year's debate on audit reports. I informed myself about the discussions of earlier years, and I became most convinced that most of the debates ended with several or no discussions, with the adoption of a template report by the Commission on finance budget. This year's debates were more and more content, and I must also point out a large engagement and a contribution from the Finance Commission, which has made a great deal of efforts to make the BiH institutions' audit problem more serious and to give it the importance it deserves. Such a relationship is commendable but, without concrete responsibility measures, I fear that the Commission will turn into some kind of super-audition, whose recommendations and their re-responsibility will not be alarmed again next year. It is simply incomprehensible for me that, year by year, the responsible in the state institutions must be warned of the same failures and that they must in some way pray to comply with the laws of this state. In particular, I find it absurd for mass phenomena that the laws on the use of taxpayers' funds are deafened by institutions, which should in all likelihood be a model of legal and professional attitude towards public incomes. 3 I will not appear on this next item of the agenda – it would be logical if they were combined – where summary conclusions and recommendations are discussed, and therefore I recommend to another auditors a more analytical approach in carrying out shortcomings and appointing those who ignore laws and who are responsible for failures. I recommend to this House and the Commission for Finance and Budget that concrete steps be taken to amend and supplement the law, in the direction of more concrete regulation of liability measures for the illegal and irresponsible availability of public funds. The system of supervision and control, in which law violations and failures in state institutions from year to year are being asked to comply with the laws, is definitely not effective. Effective control and supervision can only produce concrete liability measures against those who break the laws or are responsible for failures. This year's discussions on audit reports are certainly a step forward and a step towards establishing an effective control and surveillance system. I also recommend that we discuss the audit reports in BiH institutions in future in a single package, one set that will be slightly more extensive, but this would be far more rational for auditors who are each time busy with these discussions in the report for each group of institutions. This would also be more rational for the Finance and Budget Commission and for the Members of Parliament, because we are more than once occupied by the debate on a completely identical subject and an identical problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15070	Thank you. If you don't anymore... Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15071	Mr. Chairman, year after year, I've been following these reports and I think a little bit of this is beginning to lose its meaning because of the way we approach this business. I do not think that the summary reports should be placed as a part of the agenda, but an individual, introductory presentation of the auditors for each institution, the Minister's reply and the debates and conclusions for each institution, and I ask that the future... You can respect that within the framework of the existing Rules of Procedure. Then we will actually have a satisfied purpose for the existence of an audit institution. A lot of things aren't punishable, but it's inappropriate. We can fix it here if we work this way. Each institution: the introductory presentation of the auditor, the reply of the minister or other manager, the debate in parliament and the conclusions of each institution. I ask that we organise ourselves in this way, both in this commission and here in Parliament, when it comes to these reports of the Office of Audit. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15072	Thank you. 4 I note that we have 13 reports today. And that's just part of those total reports as many as there are, I don't know how many there are. And that this way would certainly be very meaningful, but the fact is that it would be a very abundant job, so it might be considered to be just one session special that concerns audit reports. We can take care of that next time. The next came Ambassador Jovičić and Bešlagić, after that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15073	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, I fully support Mr. Džaferović's proposal and you, Mr. Chairman, that this order should be for the next sittings. This is an essential question, because it should be and monitor the media, so look at what they pay the most attention to, not because of the media, but because of the public. That is why Parliament should pay particular attention to this, and that although we have not done so – of course, we are crossing what the people would say, letchically – but here this must be the order Mr Džaferović spoke of and that then we really have a clear picture. We've also piled up here for a recent report of countless conclusions that are not binding on anyone. And then, they can't wait to say, here, it's Parliament's fault that someone there made or violated the provisions of this law or that law or didn't fit the spending of funds. It's mostly about money, money is the essence. But so far, we have not had such a practice. The auditors did part of their work, although I support what Mr Dolić said, it should be more comprehensive. Because what's important? It's important for the public and for the people to say that we as the most responsible institution of this country, so we let someone in there violate something without ultimately seeing where the finals are. Finale is the result! Who did that? The perpetrator, who broke or who acted within the legal frameworks must be known here. That's why Mr. Džaferović's excellent proposal and yours, of course, Mr. Chairman, is... to approach the set of these audit reports that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15074	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15075	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected present, considering the report by the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the audit carried out in 2006, I think the third set of these reports, I must stress that the Audit Committee report is talking about the audit committee's work. But the problem is, we've stressed every time that the conclusions this Parliament makes are practically not binding on anyone, so the meaning of the audit committee and this Parliament, we can say, is that we work for nothing. And the point is that the task of the audit committee and this Parliament: that the observed errors of the auditors must be sanctioned against those who made these mistakes. 5 For these reasons, the proposal made by Mr Džaferović and my previous colleagues, Mr Dolić, I think they are absolutely present, or acceptable, noting that those whose audit report is being discussed here must really be present, not the auditor. They gave the report, I accept your report, but to me, the more important answer to those who did, I would say, the slips in these reports. For this reason, I believe that we will probably talk again today about taking these measures in the package, with one note that I was at a consultation here where the public prosecutor said absolutely, we say, after this we should forward to the prosecutor to discuss this audit report, then he told us here publicly and clearly that this should not be forwarded to him, but should be forwarded to institutions such as SIPA and other institutions, and if they consider and find it meaningful then to go towards him, so I think that, with these proposals proposed by Mr Džaferović and my predecessors, this proposal should once again be considered to be seen really who and when they will be responsible for, I will not say it again, but a repeated mistake, because I do not know how much I am already here in parliament, but in 2006 – in fact we are referring to almost the same ministries, almost the same people, and they are repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15076	Thank you. If he doesn't? Dear Ambassador Jukić, please. Please report for discussion and electronics.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15077	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, respected guests, so here we are, I think, the third or fourth time we have part of these reports of the BiH Institutions Audit Office as part of the agenda. I'll just say a few... fact about the work of the Committee on Finance and Budget which he organised this time, that is, through a series of his sessions and committed to, this year, taking a closer look at all these financial reports and practices was to invite the institution's representative to each session and to ask the responsible people of the institutions for an explanation: why... these errors and mistakes were made and to ask them for an answer when they would remove all these shortcomings and their business compliance with the legal regulations. I personally think we've spent a lot of time, but we've got good results. I'll say, already some of the first results, which is that we got, I don't think, a few dozen, I don't know the exact number of, of course, answers from institutions that have already removed certain shortcomings observed in the revision of the work of their institutions. The role of Parliament, the competent commission? So it's not her that we're determining someone's criminal, criminal responsibility, whether anyone, I don't know, is guilty, if they've broken a regulation like that. That's what someone else is gonna find out. However, it is our responsibility to warn all those who have worked insufficiently and have not sufficiently respected the legal regulations to stop doing so. We invited them to comply with the law. Of course, we've been looking for explanations, we've always received promises that in the future, whether these mistakes are getting any less and less, that more attention will be paid to legitimate business. And some progress has been seen, but I'm going to talk about it at the next point, where we have more and more positive reports, less and less reserve reports, etc. which, however, is a significant shift. Of course, it's still not what we need and what we expect. These reports here today are no different from the previous reports, in terms of the audit findings. There are those who got a positive find and an opinion, there are those who have a reserve and I don't know, you've naturally studied it all through this time. I wouldn't be particularly long, but in the end I would only look back once more, or suggest, or ask you to... In some ways, the Commission gets support for its work and effort and... here are the next reports that we will expect to approach our work in the same way when they arrive. What I must point out here as one, however, is that the representatives of some institutions have not responded or responded to several calls to attend the session when discussing the institution's work. And that's what should really be criticised and invited these people to more responsibility, and not only do I not know say, I don't know, there's something else important to do, etc. Everyone's work is important, it should be respected, but also the obligation to come, to tell the competent commission and auditors what to say about the irregularities observed in the audit report. Here, in the next point something more, perhaps, I'll say, if necessary, about how, how much, how much... done etc. However, to conclude, I think that this way of working by the Commission has absolutely good results, that it should be supported and that this should continue to work and the results are evident. I expect that only in the coming year will we be able to see and assess the results of such work by the Commission further.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15078	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15079	Well, I have answered the word and as a member of the Commission, exactly, so as not to create some confusion about how this Parliament works, because I think it might lead us in some other direction. What my colleague Jukić was saying, I think it is important to underline, that this is the way the Commission works, and I think that it should not be transferred to Parliament as proposed, because the Commission, I think, has done it well. All these people were, were really at some point very harshly debated, many of the issues were being explored, and this is a new way of working, where all of this could be obtained, and this is what the reports say. I think the role of Parliament is to learn from these reports and what we usually keep quiet, and that means in an indirect way, this Parliament is making all appointments, all appointments. And one of his most important roles is not to skip the appointment of people who have negative audit reports. That's what we keep quiet! And then, you know, we're now calling for someone who's imaginary there to decide to do something, but usually under some political pressure or whatever it is that doesn't lead or shut up, and then we have a failure of the commission's work, because a man who has a negative audit report gets political support. And who's the third one to solve it then? He's gone. 7 Also, there is enough material for the control organs and for those who want to do anything there. I think the basis is very good with regard to the Commission, as far as the debate is concerned, as far as the material is concerned, as far as the conclusions are concerned. Media representatives are also present at the Commission, and they are absolutely participating, i.e. they can come up with details, the smallest details, wherever there is anything, anything controversial. That is why I believe that I am not, I am not an advocate, and I do not think it is acceptable for this focus to be transferred to Parliament, because it is the Commission that should, if the way of work needs to be improved there, and to use those conclusions in the right sense, in which Parliament can do so. So, in making key decisions, in naming and in dealing with these people who possibly have negative, negative audit reports! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15080	Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15081	It's not a replica, Mr. Chairman, an explanation. I, dear colleagues and colleagues, belong to a group of those Members who have begun to apply this law here and who has been spotted along with other colleagues on this system that we have today in the Commission. Whoever remembers Norwegian Stortii and their guests here, they'll know what I'm... talking about. And I do not advocate changing the way it works in the Commission. So, what the Commission is doing, that's good. I just think that we should have a short, five sentence for every institution here at the pay phone and at parliament to say what the auditor has to say, ministers who today are not going to say what Parliament thinks. I think that is the best way to achieve what Mr. Jukić is talking about. It's a seriousness in accessing this business and the responsibility of institutions that we miss here anyway. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15082	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Prodanović, then Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15083	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, representatives of the Council of Ministers and the Chief Audit Service, I must say that I have, I have no impression, but here we are having a debate on the Collection Report more than these individual 13, which is – I think you will assess whether you will unite the debate on both points – which would be significant. But I also want to say one thing that is very important in the method, to repeat what the Commission has done in the previous eight sessions and what we have all experienced, not just from the Commission, but we have all gone in some way for this year. Here is education earlier, MPs who have long experience in this parliament, that in BiH, despite the huge number of objections to the work of a large number of budget... users, and 8 BiH institutions, however, we are taking positive steps forward. These positive steps forward are that this year, for the second time in the overall parliamentary life of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we held public hearings. We have come to a situation that there has been no representative, not one of the 52 institutions that has not... had representatives at these public hearings. What I believe was a lack: that these public hearings should be brought to such a stage that the full debate is available to media representatives. Certainly, it's a matter of media representatives what will make a significant... Here, let's say, just these 13 reports we're considering today? Here are more than two-thirds of the materials answered by the Commission's request for finance and the budget of Parliament's House of Representatives. This is very important and I must say that... all the time our discussions were representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We have come into a situation now that we have made a summary report, it is significant for this Parliament. It is certainly necessary to consider the possibility, perhaps, that the summary reports should be considered at a two-day or one-day level as the only item of the agenda, and I agree that the responsibility of individual institutions should be specified, although, when we look at these individual reports now – at the end of these 10 and 13 of these reports in this report – that each of the institutions should be told what the remark is. What encourages: that in BiH we have five out of 52 budget users with a positive opinion, 13 budget users with a positive and distracting focus, but also 35, so more than 50% of budget users, an estimated opinion with a reserve. And I have to say one more positive thing that BHRT has received a negative opinion, as we saw at the previous session, that is, this previous day Thursday when we were at the session, that they very seriously and responsibly responded to what they think to do in the 2005 and 2006 audit report. Another very important thing: this parliament needs to know that we have already entered the procedure for determining the audit house that will be audited by the BiH institutions under the law. It's also a positive shift. What did we see? Dear Vice-President Belkić and I were in Storming in Oslo and we saw a huge experience... what was done in democratic countries of Europe in terms of the audit service. BiH is seeking, therefore, to have an obligation, to have every mark invested in the budget, i.e. used, to be, every mark is subject to review. I think it is very important that we now adopt the Joint Report, but much more important than that this Parliament does so in this report... where it is in some way and stated by the time of May next year to call, yes, to put... as a special item of the agenda or a special session of Parliament and to invite representatives of the Council of Ministers and Budgetary Users to analyse how much of what we are going to adopt today. If we don't do it, we won't do anything. We must initiate the responsibility of those chosen to bear sanctions, those who have done so badly, whose report, the audit report, in two consecutive terms, is negative in two consecutive audits for two years. That's where part of the responsibility has to be started! It's one of the possible ways and the right way. And secondly, given that the BiH institutions' audit office has all the reports on its internet address, the authorities must be interested and 9 start responsibility for those who have led to bad business, i.e. the availability of funds for BiH citizens. I would like to say once again, this is what I said in earlier discussions... I think it would be very important in the process of changing the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, both at the BiH House: the BiH Parliamentary Assembly needs a special review committee. I am convinced that this is of greater interest, greater interest than having two commissions for finance and budget. I'm not sure both homes should have special finance and budget commissions, it's a superficial approach, it's a waste of time. If we have a commission to audit BiH institutions, so as a single commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the Finance Commission, a joint commission, so for finance and the budget, in which case we will do the same jobs, we will not double, we will not have a superficial approach, we will spend less time. And just in the end, to say that it is a great achievement for this home that before the end of this year, we end the report for everyone, for all 52 institutions. And that we need to have a report on the realization of these conclusions, both individual and these sums, before the BiH institutions' audit office delivers a report for 2007. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15084	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15085	Thank you. I'll start what I thought I'd end up with. At this session of the House of Representatives under point 7 we adopted the Internal Audit Act in BiH institutions. For the sake of reminders, this law allows for clearer profiling and positioning the role of Parliament, competent authorities, etc. when it comes to reports, i.e. audits, the work of the Office for Audit and the reports of individual institutions. I appreciate that it might be a good idea that before we get the 2007 report, that, possibly, the working bodies of Parliament, first of all, the Finance and Budget Commission, may make a proposal for the work of their own body or perhaps a future body. I think this proposal by colleagues Prodanović very good, to separate a bit of finance and general economic flows that usually go by definition somehow to that body and from the audit, or supervision of the operations of BiH institutions. We are talking about financial business reports, but reports... on the work of certain state institutions are not just about financial business. I just want to remind you that even in individual reports, the Audit Office warns us that certain legal provisions have not been applied, that something has not been done transparently, that no legal procedures have been respected. So let's ask ourselves, what does it mean if there's no law or legal procedure? Is that an illegal act? That we, as the highest legislative authority, ask ourselves what it means, from the position of applying a law, about how certain institutions function because it seems to me that we are going to be discussing it in 10 of these ways, if we don't change something. We can also send these audit reports to the competent authorities etc., but I am not sure that in all these institutions – SIPA, OSA etc., there are, prosecutors etc. – that there are capacities both time and human and educational etc. to devote themselves to this very important question. I also want to remind you of another... another absurd, often faced by this parliament. We are now discussing reports on the audit carried out in 2006. We have heard on several occasions criticism that there has been no response from the ministers, or there are no deputies, or today, at Parliament's meetings, but, let me remind you, there are no more ministers, or there are no more of these people. This is the 2006 report, this Council of Ministers came in 2007, which of course cannot amnest individuals and the work of institutions, which means that we need to change something in the way the system of responsibility works and when it comes to state institutions and reports, reports on the audit carried out. In terms of and one recommendation, of course, with what Mr. Prodanović has been talking about and the new circumstances, at least when it comes to the new law that we have adopted here, I would suggest that the committee responsible together with the representatives of the Office of Audit may make... one way of working, in terms of mutual and coordinated work, mutual assistance and the Audit Office which works under special rules of the game and by specific accounting standards, as well as a signal, that is, a feedback for Parliament's working bodies and possibly recommendations that we would, which we would refer to... to some other bodies. And I would remind, in that sense, that it is of great quality when we are discussing reports on the work of state institutions that are obliged to report to this Parliament to bring together the report on the work, together with the audit report. It's not just financial business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15086	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15087	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to point out that during this brief period, this Parliament has discussed, on two occasions, the reports of the Office for Audit for 2005 and 2006 and those who have had the patience to deepen in these reports, with certainty, that there has been significant progress in public funding, however we do not have sufficient numbers of state institutions that have an absolutely positive report on the position of the Audit Office. I think that we have had a good working method in the past when it comes to these audit offices reports but, on these proposals that have been put forward today to improve, this consideration needs to be seriously considered and to see what is effective enough for this Parliament to work. We in the Finance and Budget Committee expect that, in addition to adopting these reports, we should also support the Commission's conclusions. If the Commission's conclusions are realised, then much of the assumptions presented here today are necessary for the responsible availability of public 11 funds will be removed in the following year. Important assumptions for this are the amendment of the Law on State Service and the Law on Ministrys and other bodies, in which a new chapter called 'The Work of the Office for Audition and Responsibility of Civil Service Officers to the availability of public funds' would be arranged as a disciplinary responsibility. The objective problem is that we all have criminal responsibility in our heads as the only way to improve this work. These documents are public and they are available to the authorities and, if there is anything that requires their involvement, they will no doubt react. A number of irregularities... can be classified in the chapter 'Disciplinic Responsibility'. Unfortunately, our legislation in the civil service has not yet recognised that responsibility when the audit report is either negative or negative in parallel, then in the ordinary procedure carried out for the responsibility of a civil servant, a procedure cannot be implemented by law. I'm not even sure that a shift can be done without a certain legal procedure... and that it can be done in a civilized way. If we change that and the Commission concludes this, then I am convinced that in the coming years certain people who repeat or make the same failures will be sanctioned in an appropriate manner. An important segment of the promotion of this work in the budget is budgeting on time. We, unfortunately, are again in a situation where we have a delay in budgeting. Publicly speaking, a good part of the irregularities is the result of poor or insufficiently responsible planning. Given the rapid adoption of the budget, the situation is objectively taking place that certain positions in the budget are incorrectly planned and that there are certain irregularities in the distribution of funds. And those who have read the report see that almost every institution that has an opinion with a revision is an observation of the redistribution of funds as a consequence of insufficiently responsible planning. Employment approval in state authorities is a major problem for state authorities. Everyone in the budgets is planning funds for the maximum number of employees, and it is not objective that it can happen in one year or even in a number of years, and I think it would be good to at least limit it in a certain way and make budget planning far more responsible. If we do this, if we agree on a law on the financing of state institutions and the law on budgets, then I am convinced that a legal framework will be created in which people will be forced in a certain way to be more responsible for these funds. I have to say in the end as a witness from these hearings on the Commission. So we also invited those who had a positive report to show publicly that in this legal framework those responsible can have a positive report from the Audit Office. But we discussed with them until then until they publicly said that the following reports would not repeat any objections from the Office of Audit. So, they've made a public statement, and we're left to go public next year and check it out. For those who repeat mistakes, I count on the Council of Ministers to let these laws go into the process and then there will be room for them to sanction disciplinaryly, in line with new legal decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15088	Thank you. 12 I have no more reports. I am concluding the debate and I have been given the right from your discussion to propose to Parliament that these 13 audit reports, together with the report of our commission, be put to the vote, in which case I would ask Parliament to make a statement on whether we will work in this way. To others present here who would like to report, I will now give the opportunity to report to the next item of the agenda, when we talk about the summary report of all institutions. I ask the House to prepare for a vote on my proposal to vote on all reports at once. You can vote. Now! "For" 28, there was no "against", there was no "abstained". So we agreed to vote on all the reports in the package, along with the Commission report. I'm asking Dom to prepare himself. You can vote. Now! "For" 26, "against" was not, two "abstained". I find that the reports have been adopted, along with the report of our commission. Moving to the 26th point of the agenda: Ad. 26. Summary of the Commission's Finance and Budget Reports on the BiH Financial Institution's 2006 Financial Audit Report, with the Opinion of Conclusions and Recommendations As we agreed at the beginning of the review report, our Finance and Budget Commission, after completing the review reports for all institutions, submitted a summary report with the conclusions proposed to Dom for adoption. You have received a summary report from the Commission. I am opening a debate with the question: Does anyone from the Commission need to present their summary report? Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15090	Here, since there is no chairman of the Commission, Mr Bahtić, I, although I was not prepared, did not know that, so I could explain it better. But here's your report, and that's enough, I'd say, both extensively and meaningfully. So there are important proposals here that should be supported and then, of course, make sure that they are realized. So this here, which is clearly said how it was done; therefore, the Commission held nine of its meetings to discuss these reports, so all 59 reports. 13 Representatives of all institutions were invited to the meetings and generally responded, although not all at first, at first, but we were determined to call both later and second time etc., so that they would all be and to all say what they had to say about all the irregularities observed through the work of the Office for the Audit of State Institutions. I wouldn't be talking about what the findings are, because that's what we've been talking about through the partial adoption of parts per piece of these reports, but we've adopted them all. But here it is, therefore, seen, and as a result, we have five budget users assessed by a positive opinion of the revision. Among these five, one... is the work of our parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, although often, in fact, few and others wish to present the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. However, the facts are these which I have said and which audit has established. Furthermore, 13 budget users were assessed in a positive opinion by drawing attention to certain gaps, so it suggests that these gaps were not significant, they were not large, but should also be removed in the next period. 35 budget users were assessed by an opinion with a reserve which means... a significant deficit. And one is assessed by negative opinion, which is BHRT. So we had him in the first part of our session, we discussed it. And we all agreed that really failures are so significant that this assessment is certainly very objective and that it is necessary, whether, to remove all these shortcomings, and I expect that the management and management of this institution will do so in the coming period. And that they will present to us the plan, the way they plan to remove all these perceived shortcomings. Here's to one of these illustrations, I'm going to say just one tiny detail that says that there have been huge and unnecessary gaps that have even been repeated in some institutions, and in two or three years in a row. For example, the lack of rules on the systematization of jobs and tasks. And I'm really asking all of us questions here, and of course I asked that institution a question: How is it even possible to do anything in the institution until such a document is present? How can anyone, anyone, be assigned to any job that is neither specified nor defined, nor specific jobs, tasks etc.? So these are really failures that are very big, and actually you just need a little bit to do, to get them out of the way. We of course asked the institutions to remove it, as soon as possible, to inform the Commission if they did. I think it's positive and it should. Here, it is a new quality in the Commission's work that directly communicates with BiH institutions, in terms of removing these shortcomings. So this is just one example. Here, I expect these already some elements that we can track and quantitatively, so we'll be able to tell in the coming year which are both concrete successes and shifts, of course, forwards. They are already visible, I expect them to be more significant and we will be able to measure them when they happen, in a year or so or less, hopefully, we will finish reviewing all the work reports for this current year. All of course in these hearings have promised to fix their business, align it as much as possible with the laws. What is said, already here some of my colleagues from the Commission have commented, of course, that everything that is written here is behind this: and this commission is proposing and it will be Parliament's obligation, because the Commission does not have this capacity to continue to monitor the realization of all of this here as planned, if we adopt this today, and I expect that we will adopt it, to follow in an adequate way how this is done here. Because, I am convinced, this here represents 14 a whole package of measures and activities to be done to ensure a new quality in the control of BiH's financial operations, and I agree, I think that this is Mrs Azra's point, that it would be good to bring together reports on the work on financial business reports. Because often, in order to justify some kind of cost, it is necessary to say what followed the cost as an effect, as a result of the work, i.e. the cost, i.e. the costs, etc. And now the question is, truth is, there is also an institute in us to measure the impact, but we have not yet affirmed it to this extent that we can talk about it in this way. However, one of the tasks, too, of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office, is to monitor the effects of the institution in the future, and then we will be able to discuss it here in the following reports, hopefully. Here, I really wouldn't have lasted any longer. I think this material is quite clear, at least I think it's written quite methodologically correctly, in the sense that it has to state what has been done, what is proposed and what is even expected if one such material is adopted. He, I'm convinced, provides assumptions for better and better quality monitoring, and then of course for work and better and better quality monitoring of BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15091	Thank you. I don't have any more registered MPs. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15092	Dear gentlemen, dear colleagues, I would like first to welcome the efforts of our commission, which is indeed, it seems to me, as never before, come seriously not only to the analysis of the report but also to propose certain measures to reduce the observed shortcomings in future reports. Secondly, what I was going to say was my one view of some of the measures proposed here. So, in addition to the ones I welcome, there is one measure that seems to me to be much more seriously analysed. It is, in fact, under (e) the formation, i.e. the practical launch of activities on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, towards the creation of a joint financing committee and a joint review committee. Experience shows that the joint commissions are much harder to function than... individual commissions at home. They are more difficult to call on because of, of course, the activities of homes that each one works for itself and most often are much less on average present members of the commission than is present on home commissions. For this reason, I would not support, i.e. I believe that this proposal should be studied much more in detail. I personally think it is necessary to keep an individual commission of finance homes but I don't mind that part of one and the other commissions make up a review committee that will occasionally meet, if necessary. Of course, if we're looking at it in that sense, then this could be some solution because I don't see the whole role of this committee together all the time, and especially, I'm saying, I'm convinced that we'd make the work of the Finance and Budget Commission and one and another at home harder this way. So I will vote in favour of this report, I will vote in favour of all these proposals, but by my vote, therefore, my vote does not refer to this provision under e), i.e. I exempt it from a positive opinion. 15 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15093	Thank you. Since I said at the beginning that we would allow others who would like to report to this point, I would ask one of the representatives of the BiH institutions to review if necessary. Do you have a need? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15094	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am really pleased to have this debate here in Parliament today regarding the audit reports. It is still a sign and a shift and a good sign, in fact, that it is very serious to approach this problem. Let me just say that I completely agree with all the debaters who actually talked here today about practically the same thing. So, the drive to fix the financial situation, considering audit reports on a wider platform. Let me also say that, in fact, as far as I'm concerned personally as the Chief Auditor and the Audit Office, it is irrelevant for us how and how you will technically and formally set it up, whether or not someone from the Audit Office or the Chief Auditor will present the reports here in Parliament or will be working on this commission. So, the thing is, it's purely business, and no matter how you deal with it, we're standing up to it, we're gonna do it. So, for this year 2006, we submitted a total of 55 reports, as Mr Jukić presented it in this summary report. Of these 55 reports, 18 were assessed as good, true with some distraction. This could also be called some small things, 35 reports have more serious gaps and shortcomings, and one report is considered to be significantly bad, or negative. It is therefore up to Parliament and the institutions of the system to continue to launch activities to overcome these problems. I would also like to point out that we in the Audit Office, available with all capacities, will contribute when it comes to the formation of this commission that Mr. Novaković was talking about. I think it would be a good proposal to practically just the review committee at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly, where only the audit reports and the audit issues would be considered. So, to put aside finance and budget, it's important that both homes have it. After all, such practice is everywhere in the world. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15095	Thank you. 16 I see Mr. Pilav has come forward. However, I would suggest to you, given that the 34th agenda is about your office, or the office you're working on, so that within that point, if you have something to do with it, come in. If there are no more reports, honourable Ambassador Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15096	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, esteemed guests, I would only suggest as a member of the Commission that everything that we have brought, the hard work of the Commission, is accepted here with these proposals that have been made. We're suggesting that what the review did must have been one shift, but we have to say that we're not closing our eyes in front of it, so there are a lot of gaps, that the Commission has solved one part of those gaps. She left one piece through these conclusions. I'm suggesting that this wouldn't be a friendly criticism to get over and over this, because we've got a 2007 report waiting for us, and that's exactly where I want to tell both the auditors and all of us, so we shouldn't go over these gaps that we've had. All those who have missed, so they've been looking for a way out but what's evident, so I'm asking you to keep the following reports tabular, if it's about spending taxpayers' money. So, if we've brought in a budget and one item for a particular commission or a particular ministry, we ask that they owe us. So where they spent it, how much, for what it's going to be, it's going to be a real review. What I had... was a grudge, and that's what I was saying through the Commission, so our reports are textual. So, nowhere in the world, especially the ministry's reports if they're heading towards the assembly, it means they have to be tabular with money spent, and I'm really suggesting that we don't have problems for the following years: we'd better settle it this year, get in with such a work programme, and that's going to make it easier for this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15097	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And I would like to call on you to make a statement on the Commission's summary report on finance and the budget on the reports of the BiH institutions' financial audit for 2006, with a proposal to amend the members, i.e. a proposal under e) where the Commission is said to propose to the House of Representatives to launch activities on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. I would suggest that this sentence reads: The Commission proposes to the College of the House of Representatives to consider possibilities and to launch activities. Since we have to agree with the House of Nations on this, I think it's more acceptable and then we could have a full consensus on this. If that's okay, please with this change, I'm calling the House to plead. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 23, "against" was not, with two "abstained" – I find that we have adopted. 17 Moving to the 27th agenda: Ad. 27. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, BiH police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1. 3. 2007 to 31. 8. 2007 On September 7th, we received a report from the foreign ministry and the BiH presidency from this point of urgency to discuss it at this session due to the urgency of its adoption. The report was also discussed by the Joint Defence and Security Commission, which delivered yesterday, which previously... delivered its report. You have seen in the Report: The Joint Commission unanimously accepted the report, with the conclusions it proposes to the House for adoption. The conclusions read as follows: 1. The report was found to be re-delivered with considerable delay and expressed dissatisfaction with the deadlines of the reports by the competent institutions, which should be changed in the next period. Competent ministries are required that the report also contains relevant information related to the day-to-day working conditions and life of members of peacekeeping missions abroad. I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. We're voting on the report, with the report of this committee and the proposed conclusions. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! I'm asking for five minutes to invite all MPs to come and vote again on this. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15100	I appeal to a member who regulates the way we vote in this house. Please, I'm in last session... 18
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15101	Please, come on, don't talk about it, I've given you reasons. The people I called weren't even registered, they were sitting there. We'll do it again for those reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15102	Well, I have to, this is still the state parliament. Here, if it's the Rules of Procedure, then we must respect it. Last time you answered me in an inappropriate way that you were in... The college agreed that the Rules of Procedure had not been broken. It's true he's a broken Rules of Procedure. You can't take a break and then repeat the vote afterwards. You did not even say the results of the vote in the first vote. If that's the case, if that's the case, no problem. But I don't think it's in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15103	It is in line with the Rules of Procedure and look at the amendments and additions that we had to the Rules of Procedure where it is said that the chairman could set a break at any time, and afterwards I received assurances and after the documents saw that people who wanted to vote and were present had not voted. That's why the vote was repeated. I ask the House to prepare – not registered, of course – to prepare for the vote. Please vote. Now! "For" 23, "against" one, "abstained" four. I find the report has received the required majority. Moving to the 28th point of the agenda: Ad. 28. Information on the unauthorized production and marketing of intoxicating drugs in Bosnia and Herzegovina between 2005 and 2006, with trends for the first six months of 2007 The Ministry of Security provided this information on 1 October. On 5 November, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security delivered its Opinion on Information. In its opinion, this committee, in addition to accepting information to the House, proposes to adopt the following conclusions: 1. The BiH Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers of BiH is asked to draw up a strategy to fight intoxicated drugs as soon as possible, 2. It is suggested to the competent institutions to tighten criminal policy in relation to the criminal acts of production and the placing on the market of intoxicating drugs, 3. All BiH actors who have certain responsibilities in the area of drug abuse, as well as NGOs, the information media in BiH should take all the necessary activities in timely education of the widest layers of the population on drug abuse and their consequences. 19 I'm opening a debate. Is there a need for someone from this ministry? No! No! Dear Ambassador Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15105	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would really just like to draw attention to drug abuse as a disease that is spreading in BiH, both in our countries and in our environment, could be said by worrying proportions. This report is correct and contains all relevant parameters. However, what I would like to say and appeal: that these conclusions of our commission are urgently operationalized. This is the fact that in fact in this report there are indicators that are certainly significantly higher in real life as far as this number is concerned, both in terms of production and in terms of consumption and drug dealing. What's the problem, that's what actually in this report we only have registered users that are so registered. But we certainly in real life have a problem of testing and experimental use, first of all, light drug minors, these adolescents, and the limit of first drug consumption in our secondary schools has moved to seventh and eighth grade primary schools. In that sense, I think we should go with this strategy as quickly as possible and in this period, a period of transition. In any case, I think the D.A.'s office would actually be punished for drug trafficking, use, abuse and drug production should be maximum, on the one hand. And on the other hand, I think that the courts would have to take these processes into consideration, and not how it really happens to us on the ground that one person gets arrested multiple times for any drug-related work, and actually after 24 hours or 48, it says here 72 hours, lets out of custody or prison, and at the same time that witness, it's that junkie, in a way, change his statement or his opinion. I also think that the number of deaths from drug overdoses is greater than this report that was put here, so what I would suggest, which means that in some way we try to transfer drug prevention to the field of health promotion and to the ground that means that we get involved in one process with countries in the environment and other countries related to the prevention of drug abuse as a disease that threatens our youth and, in any case, it involves the quality of life of our youth and mutilates generations that come. What would also be important to point out: it means education with educators, psychologists in primary schools, too, and in secondary schools. It is worrying that the average year is a junkie – it does not say whether drugs are easy or heavy drugs – it seems to me, 24 years old, which means a lot of inadequate drug management. It states here that we have four communes, two in the Federation and two in the RS. I don't think these communes are enough for the rehab process of drug treatment, and I think we should deal with the drug absolutely from a preventive and promotional aspect. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15106	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović, then Rajilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15107	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, a good part of what I was about to say, has already been said by Professor Alajbegović, but let me try... to trace what she was talking about, and what she saw quite correctly when it comes to this information, to say a few words. So this information, as far as I can figure it out, is actually working and it was possible to make it, because the situation is like that, is whether, with only one part or one aspect of this very dangerous phenomenon in the world, including in BiH. So it refers to how many criminal charges have been filed, criminal offences detected, monitoring comparative data. Of course, I support all the measures proposed in this information and proposed by our commission. But I don't think this information is working, because it's not even possible to tackle, is it something that I think we know more or less well what's going on and in the Bosnian Herzegovagic society when it comes to this problem, which is that the circle of those whom this is related to and which is actually unpunished but harmful to the development of society is significantly wider, significantly wider and the problem is much deeper, and I don't think that we can fight this problem just by the measures of repression. I therefore support the strengthening of Parliament's appeal to be a requirement for a stricter criminal policy towards those involved in abuse, to strengthen state agencies, the State Border Service, the SIPA, their departments, the Ministry of Interior and Entity, the canton, anything that can fight it, let it fight. But if we don't do one thing, I don't think we're gonna get the right result. I think it is time in BiH, since we have passed the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Drug Abuse in February 2006, and we have provided for a strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in BiH, that this strategy should in particular treat one area related to prevention, and this area concerns education, as regards point 12 of this proposal, which says more intensively include school institutions, health institutions, social work centres and NGOs in organised actions to reduce drug abuse, and register drug users. I put an accent here on educational institutions. I think the time has come in BiH for this strategy, which I quote above, to elaborate this point 12, which should talk about concrete forms of education through school programmes on this evil. I think the time has come for us to do this, and I want to say it here. So whoever makes the strategy will have to deal more specifically with the development and practical aspects of the 12th proposal from the BiH Ministry of Security information. What does that mean? Is it the introduction of an object, is it... something else through educational institutions, but I think we have to do it, and I know that a stenogram from this debate will go to whoever does this strategy and that's why I got up to say it, to make it recorded. That's it, thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15108	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Snježana Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15109	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, this report I think should have had more attention in this assembly, given the area he's treating. I read this report and I see that the Ministry was collecting data, which means that it didn't contain them somewhere in its archives, but from this data that is available, of course, which I have seen here, it appears that there was a significant reduction in drug detection in 2006, compared to 2005, except for something in the RS but... approximately much less and much less criminal offences have been brought against the perpetrator of drug trafficking. Whether it was now the ineffectiveness of the police or not, it's either something else, or really those drugs are less coming to BiH, which I honestly don't think is true. Something's mostly happening! What I miss in this report, and I suppose the Ministry couldn't even collect, is what Mrs. Azra said: which are actually people who are processed in the judiciary and are not important their names, but are important punishments and criminal provisions, that is, how punished they are for their actions, because it seems to us from reading, at least it seems to me from reading the media, that these penalties are extremely small, that the perpetrators are guessing with the prosecution, the courts of course accept these deals, and then they go free for six, three months or a year, in the worst case, and then they are very quickly able to act on those people who eventually decide to be witnesses in these acts. However, what made me say a word today is these conclusions at the end of this report, which are quite acceptable to me, or a proposal for measures and actions. But what they lack, the deadlines are running out. This is a bit of a great wish list, but there are no deadlines for execution or, as we say, there is no action plan to carry out these actions, which, in any case, might be one of the conclusions of this home to propose to the Ministry that within a short period of time, or to set a three-month deadline, an action plan for the implementation of these measures and actions is drawn up. However, what I would most like to talk about; in some of my, say, political life, I also sought to deal with some NGOs working on youth education from drug prevention. And in this work, I first noticed that they have extremely small funds that they have and are unable to come into every environment, to do education, and secondly, I noticed that people who decide to treat the use of intoxicating drugs, after that treatment – whether they are in communicables or in specialised institutions – are left alone. They stay home to their parents again, ugly to say, but I'll say, street and again, after a while, they get into bad company and they become addicts again. I therefore believe that it is necessary to make this action plan as soon as possible and that it is necessary to develop a strategy against drug intoxication, and I would give it a deadline of three or five months next year which will come here or be shown to us that it is done by this ministry and I think 22 of this proposal should include 16 points, and it would say approximately, here is a representative of the Ministry that may be different formulates: - It is necessary to form a team within specialised institutions to monitor treated addicts after treatment, which would work within these institutions. So, people who would be following addicts, is that a year, six months, I would leave it to the experts, because it's not an area I understand enough, but, in any case, it would be necessary. Also, I would like to point out once again that it would take three or five months for the Ministry to develop a strategy to fight intoxicating drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15110	Thank you. Your Honour, did you want a replica? Replica, honourable Member Alajbegović, then we go Bešlagić, Jukić, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15111	I just wanted to say that as far as these teams are concerned, they exist in the addiction centers, and it's called catamnestic monitoring of addicts. But you know, treating addiction without social rehabilitation is absolutely impossible and can't be transferred to medical institutions. I responsibly claim, as someone who has been dealing with the treatment of addicts for five years of his professional career, that an addict is a sick person all his life and that whenever he enters the field of any means he was addicted to – he goes back to the same course. He won't go to try again for five years, then become an addict. The problem of addiction is that's exactly what it is. So social support and social rehabilitation are the basis. As far as health care institutions are concerned, they have catamnestic monitoring of these addicts, but these health care institutions are detoxifying them, meaning they in some way, as I would say, by medical treatment of recovery from funds, bring them into a good state for then group sociotherapy, psychotherapy and social rehabilitation. In fact, the commune has also shown the generally accepted concept of treatment for addiction has just shown that... one change in the philosophy of life, change in the concept of life, change in priorities, change in goals and change in attitude towards everything, is actually a ticket to abstinence and permanent abstinence. Without social support and support, healthcare professionals, responsibly claim, are unable to maintain abstinence.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15112	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15113	Here, I'd be free to say that by reading the report, it can be determined that according to this report, less drugs have been introduced according to the report, but...... it's according to the data we have from the center dealing with these things an increasing number, I'd say, of those who do drugs. However, without distinction, the report is good and it lacks one essential element in order to be realistic at all. All these measures, when you look at them, are based on the purchase of funds, teams, education, etc. I miss one point – except for what Mrs. Rajilić said deadlines – lack financial resources, i.e., I do not prejudge to say here that the Council of Ministers will provide the funds but that point must be put in place as an element where it must be potential for those who apply, let's say, these conclusions must provide financial resources from the institutions. Without that, no matter what these conclusions were, I'm telling you that today's drug addicts are left to the level, I'd say, an institution or rather a canton or an entity, as much as entities and cantons are interested in solving these things but still without systematic support for this monster that's happening to us in BiH. So I would suggest that in this one position that would or would supplement this conclusion: that the 17th or 18th point that would be this, which means providing financial resources for the realisation of the measures given by this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15114	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15115	I'd like a very short one. In a proposal for these measures, so under number 1 this says a strategy and action plan is being done at BiH level. I think that's what we need to do and it's a chance to get back a little bit, maybe even more involved with this subject. But here, I'd like to make one of my little contributions to this debate today on this subject. Recently, I read an article that analyzed the state of use of intoxicating agents, or the most difficult intoxicating agents, or drugs in the area of Europe. And through one criterion that seems very, very relevant and good to me, through the price on the drug market, do you know where BiH was? It's the cheapest! And you know why? And of course, who wrote the article makes a very logical conclusion and asks a question that we should ask ourselves. So wherever drugs are cheaper, the conclusion follows that it's easy to bring that drug. And we in BiH have to ask ourselves whether we are truly incompetent to this extent, those who need to work on it, unmotivated, not to do anything or very little, that our drugs are so cheap. So, easily available, it's easy to bring here. Whoever's dealing, there's no problem getting caught by the police, the organs, etc., that they'll end up in jail. So, I'd like to pray, when we look at these two documents that are put here under number one, I also think that they are the most important ones, that we should bring them here and discuss them as soon as possible, to ask these questions. 24 Here, therefore, I believe that what is right now: the situation is very bad, very bad, the drugs are very easily available, the drugs are cheapest, cheapest in Europe, which says that... is our overall effectiveness against drugs, sales, drug dealing and drug trafficking in these areas, very, very small and we need to do a lot more to change this situation. These other points in these proposals, actions and measures, I agree. However, of course you should educate young people that, whether it is a great evil, that you should stay away from it etc., say which... this is all a danger to yourself etc., and this treatment, which was said by the esteemed representative of Azra, beware, it is already when it comes so that, I don't know, people should be treated, it is only then that we see how much it costs to bring a young man back to normal life, after he drove, unfortunately, into this monster. Here, so I didn't say anything new except I figured through the same thing, I said, the data I came up with in an article. So, that the situation with us is very bad, that the drugs in our house are cheap, that it's very affordable and that all those in charge of working on the disclosure of these chains and dealers must be more efficient and efficient. And I'm going to say it again, I expect it to happen really quickly, especially this point... here, a proposal of measures and actions and then talk about this important topic again.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15116	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15117	Here, I'll be as short as my colleagues. First, I must say that the material I received from the Ministry of Security, which the Council of Ministers, as it says here, adopted at its 23rd session, is not very logical to me. In fact, it would have been good if, on the basis of this material, the Council of Ministers had reached some conclusions! It happens to us almost regularly that we get the Ministry's materials without any views of the Council of Ministers, so I don't know who has now given the task here and who should have brought some of these conclusions here! I have a feeling that some of these proposals and measures as if they were bringing MPs in to put in charge of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security, which, in itself, in the job description, should do this, not conclude that it should work. So, it seems to me, and I must express my dissatisfaction that the Council of Ministers and this ministry have not done enough to realize or to the possibilities prescribed by law. The colleagues who were in the last session remember well when we passed this law. It was precisely the intention and desire to form these institutions through the adoption of this law, a strategy and action plan that would entail effective measures to deliver results on the ground. Instead, we have received a reduction in the number of crimes detected and the number of perpetrators which I am sure does not correspond to a reduction in the number of crimes in practice, but rather less effective work of already existing institutions. It would therefore be good to make certain additions in our conclusions, i.e., to the Commission's conclusions. I suggest you conclude 2. ... is complemented, so to place the decimal, and then add the text: and asks the Council of Ministers to propose any changes to the legislative legislation. So here the competent institutions are suggested to tighten criminal policy. But that, if it involves changes, then the Council of Ministers should propose these changes and that we, in that way, implement them. Otherwise, we won't realize it. 25 Also, the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers is required in the conclusion that the strategy is drawn up as soon as possible. I support the proposal of those who felt that the deadline should be defined here. I'd say, so the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers are asked to draw up a strategy to fight intoxicated drugs as soon as possible, and no later than six months. So, I think that six months is a deadline, given the different competences or levels or jurisdiction of different levels, in order for a quality strategy to be adopted, that this is one period that can be considered acceptable. In the end, I'd like to add conclusion four. That's what my colleague Bešlagić was talking about before me. In my opinion, he would say: It is suggested to all authorities that they plan the necessary funds for the implementation of measures, actions and proposed conclusions in the budgets. I think in addition to these additions and of course with a stenogram of debate to be delivered to the Council of Ministers, but not only to the Council of Ministers but to all the institutions that have a role in this area would achieve some shift forward that we certainly did not... no matter what we passed the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15118	Thank you. Is there anyone else who might have checked in? Dear Ambassador Dolić, then Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15119	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I believe that each of us MPs, when we prepare for meetings, sorts out topics and debates according to his professional predisposition to discuss them. In the first sorting, I disqualified this topic and, only with a superficial insight into the information offered, intrigued me and interested me in making it more detailed, therefore, and to study that information. Of course, after reading this summary information, there is no one who can be indolent to the findings and data that are presented in this information. I am shocked by the conclusion that BiH fits the global average of 7% to 25% of the population, even though I'm pretty much following developments in this segment of society, and I can't help but wonder: Is this exactly the area where we reached the global average so quickly? Of course, the drugs as well as the other evils and accidents that have hit us have their own causal-consequential relationship with what has been happening in our country for the past 15 years. When it comes to proposals for measures and actions that are recommended to take in such situations, it is difficult to say something new that has not already been said and instead it is advisable to insist on urgent adoption, such as most colleagues said, on the urgent adoption of a strategy and action plan against production, marketing and use of intoxicating drugs. Undoubtedly, drugs are a social evil that can only be fought across social action. It is understandable that BiH is significantly disabled at the moment in a wider action against drug-related evils, due to the unprecedented socio-economic situation of young people, including drugs recruiting the largest number of consumers. 26 I think that this brief and summary information is also a well-diagnosed state, problem and a proposal for measures to contain it. For me, as a lack of knowledge of this issue, there are no proposals for measures and actions to subsidise production, to change and to use intoxicating drugs, but it is a questionable reality that without a particular selection, without a specific timetable and priorities, this broadly enters the action of broad social suppression. To note, too, one number of colleagues said that the proposal for measures and actions, mainly, is being treated and dominated by so-called. Repressive and police measures and this information is, in some ways, police information. It is likely that it was made in combination for the area of health, social protection, etc. - she'd have a different tone. These police measures and repressive measures are certainly necessary but are effective only in combination with preventive measures. Although there are sometimes educational actions of a preventive nature, I think it is very little of what we need and what we can do in prevention and education. In addition to the social dimension that the MPs in this house oblige us to do something to combat the growing evil called drugs, I think that we are also linked to the parental or grandfatherly feeling of young people who are most often drug victims. Finally, I, therefore, will propose, against the background of what my colleagues have already said, that, with the support of the Information and the proposed measures, it is rationally proposed that the Council of Ministers undertakes to offer, within three months or another deadline, mainly, an action plan against production, marketing and the use of intoxicating drugs and the action plan of organised recovery following the use of intoxicating drugs. Unfortunately, even here as a problem can be prevented from state, entity and cantonal jurisdiction, regulatory, but if there is one thing today where these borders can't be an obstacle, then it's certainly a battle against this evil called drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15120	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15121	So, Bosnia is a vast society, families are based,... there are many unemployed people, there are many traumatized people! In such families, young men and girls who find it difficult to find the purpose of life and their position in society. When we add this more of our Balkan mentality and greed to it, then we are an ideal society for the rapid spread of drug use. And we see it from this report where Bosnia, is the helmet in everything good for the world and for Europe, but here in this segment we have caught up with developed societies. Before the war, the junkies were here in Sarajevo, we knew them all, it could be counted on their fingers, it was some kind of deviant young people and girls, we knew them, and today they're... sons of friends, from good houses, from good families, and today they're hundreds of thousands of young people and girls who came in contact with drugs. 27 Drugs is a shortcut to creating an illusion that you have found your place in the world and then it requires a full dose increase. And if we've reached the world average in 10 years, I can imagine what's waiting for us in the next 10 years. And to cure... this problem, you need to cure society, first of all, to hire people, to achieve a certain standard. It'll take a long time. So, I'm pessimistic, and I think we're gonna have a run-in, only to have serious drug problems coming up. What? Treatment of drug addicts in communities, first of all, religious. It manages to capture, I mean, one promiscuity of those who have a drug problem. Also, preventing, catching drug dealers and catching at the border or inside the country drug addicts also comes down to obvious prominences. What can we do? I think it's certainly, before colleagues said, more important prevention than just punishment and I think it's on the trail of what Džaferović had discussed earlier, that something cheap and efficient can be done. So part of the school program should be, where would we kids face what it means... drugs? We already have a system here, whether it's school or not, and we should just put it into the programs to figure out where it's leading them. And also,... I think we should tighten up, however, criminal policy, ban any deal with big fish in drug dealing, because it's embarrassing to see them do what they're doing, as soon as they get caught on the road again. Then, the most severe punishments to pronounce and prevent, prevent pardons and amnesty. Now, I think these two measures might help a few of us to fight this problem in the next decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15122	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman-in-Office, Ambassador Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15123	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, so I must say that I agree with all the predecessors, and even if more were to come to you, there would probably be no reason not to agree... that today in BiH we have a major problem called drug abuse. The way we approach this problem, the way this problem is presented to us in this information – is an indicator of our relationship against this great evil. I want to thank the Department of Security for providing us with even this kind of information, but in the debate so far, this information is an indication that we do not have the answer to this great evil. And that's the problem. It's a bigger problem than evil itself. So we have a measure in the proposal, I don't know either, someone said it well, a wish proposal, without any concreteity, without anything concrete about what it is! We're guessing here now. Here's my guess. Should we tighten the criminal policy? Based on what should I, as an agent, assess that criminal policy needs to be tightened? Has anyone suggested to me that one of the reasons for increased drug abuse is bad criminal policy, mild criminal policy? We don't have that information. 28 We do not have prevention in BiH when it comes to drug abuse, however we like it! And I'm as a parent worried about that fact. So there's no reason why I shouldn't say it here openly, and we have to show that concern because hundreds of thousands of citizens of this country are concerned. They don't have an answer anymore. They don't know who to turn to. They fear for their child at all times, and when they go to school and when they leave school, because they fear that they will be struck by this evil. So, just because we as a society have no answer to that. On the target of repression, unfortunately, there are still exclusively small users or small dealers, small meanings. We don't have a target for the repression of big fish, here's how we're so close to saying it. We don't have a target or as a product of that repression often even detecting those petty dealers, but through the discovery of consummations... we treat it the same way as here's the prevention. I think all these discussions need to be united, and here, not to say fellow president, but here, I will, since I came out here to help him after that, because it's his idea. I have to say, I don't think we have a proposal of quality conclusions either in our commission's proposal, or in the report of the Resort Ministry, which I'm going to say, although I think this is ungrateful and I think this is a problem, I think it's only a matter for the Council of Ministers, but for all governments in this country and for all parliaments in this country, because it requires one interdisciplinary and activity of all institutions, but not a declarative one, but an actual activity of all institutions. Well, I'm going to suggest here, but the president will add that, probably, that we conclude this debate today by proposing that our commission here and these proposals try to sublime the measures into a set of concrete conclusions on this subject, specific tasks and for the Council of Ministers and for the Ministry of Security, but perhaps for some other ministries within the Council of Ministers and with better recommendations for other levels of government, so that we would indeed, behold, even if we try to make these conclusions more concrete action against the repression of this great evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15124	Thank you. If there are no reports, then I would suggest the House means that we go this way: to take the Information to the knowledge, to vote on it, and to return our conclusions to the Commission with a suggestion and a transcript from this debate to transform the last part of the conclusion, not to say the fight against intoxicating drugs, but to say the fight against drug abuse and to define the deadline. That the conclusion of 2nd, possibly, is complemented by what the honourable MP Novaković proposed, that in conclusion 3., apart from the ordinary attitude and the declaration that he is mentioned here, specifically states which institutions should be sent that conclusion, in order to take certain measures, because, remember, the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education stated that we need to put protection of a healthy lifestyle in the curricula and programmes, which implies much more than education and prevention and the fight against drug abuse. That means a lot more, but we haven't even got an answer today whether it's being included in the programmes. 29 And there is a new proposal for conclusion 4, so we could get such conclusions from our commission that, if they hold a session, we might put 28th on the agenda and vote on them. I propose that we end this item of the agenda and call on Parliament to vote, to receive the Report of Knowledge, and to return this conclusion to our commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 25, "against" was not, "compassionate" one. I figure that's how we ended this agenda. The next item of the agenda is 29. Ad. 29. Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the implementation of the conclusions of the 59rd and 73rd House session in the previous meeting to discuss the Commission's proposal for Human Rights Conclusions, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics on the results of the resolution of the presentation of the Association of Decertified Officers of the Federation of BiH and the Association of Decertified Officers of Republika Srpska – Proposer: MP Zlatko Lagumdžija You received the material the Council of Ministers delivered to our request on October 10th. At one of the sessions, we had this item on the agenda and, as you know, the promoter of the point was not satisfied with the material delivered, so Dom concluded that this point is being considered at the next session, with the task of the Council of Ministers to supplement the material, particularly in terms of the conclusion of the 73rd session of the House of Representatives of the previous assembly. Based on this conclusion, we've re-emerged the Ministry to deliver the material, which you've got, and I think that's enough ground for discussion. I'm sorry there isn't a competent minister who said he'd be at this agenda point, that they might add some, but here's the debate on this agenda point. Dear Messenger Malić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15126	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I reported myself on purpose to remove some dilemmas and just to ask a question. So we have this time received an extensive report which, among other things, has, and, let's say, 10 sheets of copies of the address to the lower-level ministers but, in any case, it's much more comprehensive, regardless of its excess material. What I want to ask is: on the basis of the decision of this House of January 2006 and the Council of Ministers' Decision of 31 August of the same year on the security of financial resources of 300,000 marks, which will be delivered to the jury by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury on the account of the Association of Decertified Officers, we have... at the very beginning, on page 4 of the Report, the decision to provide financial resources, nowhere later I couldn't find whether it was delivered to the decertified police officers! There are correspondences between one ministry and the other, instructions from the Treasury Ministry, I found everything. So all I'm interested in is, unfortunately, I don't know if any of the delegates or members of the College can tell me, but I'm just actually wondering if this decision has been made, whether or not the de-certified officers have received the funds that should be their social support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15127	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15128	Here, it seems to me that there is a need to mention: here in the Report, the chronologically listed activities taken by the Council of Ministers – but, behold, when the Council of Ministers has finished – so, which the Council of Ministers has taken on a particular problem, but here is to mention on the 3rd paragraph (8) and paragraph (9) the activities of the Council of Europe, specifically the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe and the notifications of the Permanent Representation of BiH to the Council of Europe. Let me just mention that the delegation to the Council of Europe, in particular I was the initiator of the activities in the Council of Europe, namely Mr Tomas Hamaberg's engagement to address a particular problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15129	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15130	Gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the question of status and the overall problem of de-certified police officers has long been present in our daily life and, as usual, this issue is being painted politically and dosed as much as it is using for political points. A certain professional triage of police officers on BiH's path to democratic society was certainly necessary because there is no doubt: a number of police officers are not a place in the police as an important factor in a democratic and legal system! As much as the police certification process has been burdened with intransparency and subjectivism, it is my impression that it was an important step in the way of police professionalization and, I would say, that, if anything, has made it serious and improved the professional attitude of police officers towards police work. What I resent about the police certification process is the lack of transparency and legal one-sidedness that ruled out any possibility that a cop who didn't get a certificate for it would get an explanation or get the possibility to complain. The Council of Ministers' materials, which we have received on the table for discussion on this agenda, have not personally helped me to see 31 objectively coming out of this problem without, on the one hand, devalue the positive effects of police certification and, on the other hand, to protect the human rights of police officers who have suffered the consequences of decertification for five years. My personal position on certification is therefore positive, at least from that part of my knowledge of certain specific cases in which, by denying certificates and certifications from the police, police officers who, according to professional and moral criteria, are not really a place in the police. It is likely that the police certification process has been carried out, therefore, and mistakes and at this point it is rational to look for a way to correct these mistakes and rehabilitate those officers they were made to. I don't think it would be a good idea to make other mistakes out of the envelopes of correcting injustices and mistakes against one number of police officers, to put in the same rank those who don't belong to the police and who destroy the reputation of the police, and who do indeed have them. So, I will support all those conclusions that correct mistakes and protect the human rights of de-certified police officers but I will not support any conclusion that things are generalized and clearly does not separate the grain from the weeds. I guarantee that in this case it's not just wheat, but it's got some pretty weed in it that's trying to hide in the grain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15131	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15132	Well, since here's the topic that was current and here's what I see... it's retreating, first of all, I have to say that after starting these questions that we're in fact, and what Mrs. Azra said, we've managed to get the right to de-certified cops have the right to be in the service they've been working in. It's a good thing it's not generalized that they have to go back to their seats, but it's not a good thing they have to start as if they're coming back for the first time. But it's a matter of further arrangements now, I'd say, institutions dealing with these matters, not this Parliament. But this parliament has just made things serious and has led to the fact that de-certified police officers can reapply to the places they are trained for and, on the other hand, I think that in conclusion it should be for the authorities who are competent to implement this decision – that they are now doing everything to prevent what you, Mr Dolić, are talking about, is a mass return, but that they still have a certain advantage in the employment process itself. And the question that is very important here -- and if there is no answer, we will get it -- is that the part that has been provided, 300 thousand marks, was enough and whether it is enough that the cases that deserve to be solved can be, I would say, serviced in terms of their right to resolve their status, so it seems to me that the overall activity that this Parliament has led has achieved its results which has been very difficult. We have to say it, but I'm glad we finally got and here's the satisfaction that human rights in this way at least be recognised by those who have made a decision on their decertification which I don't think has been correct. 32 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15133	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I would like to conclude the debate and suggest that we take note of the information sent by our ministry, that is, the Council of Ministers, and that here it is in charge of the Kolegijum to make an inquiry about the Council of Ministers and to get an answer that will be presented to the MPs: What happened to this decision? If that's how we can solve this problem? It can also be solved by a parliamentary question, but here, given that we are within this item of the agenda, let's end it that way. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 23, "against" was not, two "abstained". I understand we've accepted the Council of Ministers' information. Moving to the 30th point of the agenda: Ad. 30. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint College of the two homes on the debate at the 7th joint session of both homes You have received a proposal for a conclusion that has agreed to the Joint College of both homes after three-day work of the 7th session. You know there have been several proposals for conclusions and resolutions in the debate, declarations. The Joint College has offered these who think they'll get the necessary majority. I remind you that the House of Nations adopted these conclusions proposed by the Joint College of both homes and that most of these conclusions, if not all, were mainly realized. I think this is a formal question and I call on the MPs not to have a big debate about these conclusions, to adopt them and to go to the next agenda. Anyway, I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 21, "against" two, "restricted" three. I find that the proposal for the Joint College's conclusions has been given to the majority and adopted. Crossing to the 31st point of the agenda: 33 Ad. 31. Proposal for a conclusion on the Information on the rationalisation of the DKP network in BiH – submitr: Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15136	Thank you. I'll be real quick. We don't see anyone here from either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Presidency, so there's a real justification for the debate, because we did this to inform them of the positions of the House, and that's how these conclusions are positioned. And that is why, now that I have seen them gone, I believe that some of these conclusions that our commission has proposed should be corrected, and this is the following: The first one says: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly expresses dissatisfaction with the competent institutions." Just that formulation, I don't think it's the happiest choice. I think there should be a sharp criticism over the lack of information within the deadlines and the lack of quality communication with the BiH Parliament. That's the first one. Second: 'Request for review of the decisions to shut down.' I think the debate was to annul the decision and I suggest it be so. About shutting down the embassy in Argentina, there was this whole day's debate and so many arguments... that were absolutely justified and that's my suggestion. So, not 34 of any questioning, and today we should have had information either from this commission or from the authorities what was done to that cause and when we're going to get all that information. Otherwise, this is really going to be kind of just satisfying the form in treating our agendas. I really see... I don't think we can agree to that kind of relationship and that through these conclusions that we would have made to them, in the way I suggested, we should insist and define a time limit when we're going to consider this whole information that's provided here in point 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15137	Thank you. Does anyone else need to report on this agenda point? If there isn't... Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15138	Here's maybe just, not in the form of a discussion. I am just reading the proposal for the conclusion of my colleague, Raguž, concerning the Embassy in Argentina, which says that it is asked by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency to review the decision on the closure of the Embassy. So here, if this is some new suggestion conclusion maybe it would be good to... have it in mind, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15139	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15140	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, what you've received, the Commission has in fact chosen and taken these three points as three conclusions, a proposal from our commission, not entering into a change in the essence of what has been proposed by individual, individual representatives. The first conclusion was proposed by MP Križanović, who is not here today. The second conclusion in this form or a slightly different wording proposed by representatives Novaković and Raguž, both uses the term re-examination. As current today, this is questionable, especially the actuality of this second conclusion in our proposal. And the third conclusion, also proposed by Mr. Novaković and Raguž, and partly Lagumdžija, in a slightly different way. I agree with what is said that, yes, first of all, the question of time because it seems to me, almost two months as we discussed at the House of Representatives this problem, then it's 30.10. The Foreign Affairs Committee held its session and proposed these conclusions and, for known reasons, you know that we have delayed this session for a long time. In the Committee, meanwhile, we have no further reasons, no information, no such debate, no earlier questions sent by the Commission to both the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The truth of the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been given to us certains, explanations and explanations as to why something happened in that part that was the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also with their fence that it was still in the responsibility of the Presidency and that ultimately the Presidency was what it had made... the decisions we discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15141	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž wanted to. It's an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15142	It's not an incorrect quote, here's only very briefly on the trail of what Mrs. Hadžiahmetović said. It's true that that's how it was proposed, it's not controversial, but time has shown that we have no feedback. Since then, two months have passed, and that's why I have suggested, and because of this relationship, that at least we build a precise relationship and that this is now the position of this: to cancel the decision (it is related to point 2.) and in point 1. that there is dissatisfaction, he says, points out a sharp criticism of that and that. And specifically, this month's deadline has expired. Point 3, if we take when the Commission adopts this, give a deadline of 15.1. Here, they have plenty of time to deliver it to us in Parliament. So very... it's not a question of conclusions, it's just precision.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15143	The second vice-president, Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15144	It's not a replica. It's very short to give my opinion. I fully share the dissatisfaction that Mr. Raguž here has uttered with the lack of people and, above all, by the failure of what has been concluded here. It won't mean anything special if we replace dissatisfaction with the word criticism, etc. I wouldn't worry about it... too much here, but when it comes to repealing a decision, we have a certain kind of problem, and I think we've chosen the right definition and everyone here has agreed, or you've discussed it, too, to reconsider, etc. And this is the right approach when it comes to shared jurisdiction, i.e. the jurisdiction exercised by both the Presidency and this Parliament and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Surely it was much more useful, more rationally that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, all those initiatives that go in the direction of such important decisions, in time delivered to our commission, consulted, discussed, etc. But here we are somehow brought before the final act. I would, however, recommend that we do not go to the change of this conclusion 2., that we do not enter this sphere, so, when it comes to this division of jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of all three institutions without coordination, but I would go, I would go to that, therefore, because these deadlines have been violated and we have no results, etc., that the predstavnički of Representatives, therefore, 36, accept these, so to say, the conclusions of our commission, send a letter to the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where they will tell them that our conclusions and earlier discussions, etc. They are not realised and otherwise, if we do not get immediate feedback, that otherwise we will be in a position to bring some other measures. Well, then let's talk about making decisions. Here's how do we make the decision now? Is the decision being annulled by either the Presidency or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? About accessing or not accessing, abolishing, etc., or us stopping! It is said here in this conclusion, Martine, to stop! We need to get information on whether this is all stopped.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15145	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15146	Just, can you give me, here, you from upstairs... The presidency? Did these demands go to the presidency? Look, this is what we're adopting today, so I mean today we can correct certain things, but if we didn't send them, then we can't look for them, we can't criticize them, we can't criticize them for non-execution. That's why this deadline should, I agree with it absolutely: it means conclusions as they are, but to say the deadline by 15, maybe, what you said. I think that conclusion could be something where we insist, then we could say you didn't adopt it, etc. So please, so we didn't send in so that we could criticize them, and that's why I'm asking, here's what I suggest is to adopt this conclusion on the 4th that... by January 15th we get a report on what has been done in our conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15147	Thank you. If there are no more requests for discussion, I conclude the debate and suggest that these conclusions remain the same in this Commission proposal, with the third conclusion being changed in terms of: To transfer within a month, i.e. up to 1.2.2008, to give us enough time for the Presidency and the Council of Ministers to provide us with full information. Please prepare to vote. We can vote. Now! "For" 20, there was no "against" four. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted, with this little amendment and addition. Moving to the 32nd item of the agenda: 37 Ad. Thirty-two. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interim Joint Commission to determine the foreign savings of BiH citizens, laid down in the domestic banks' and branches' accounts in Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a proposal for a conclusion on the formation of the Interim Joint Commission. The proposal also contains tasks for the Interim Commission. Three members from both homes are elected to this commission. Dear MPs are proposed from the House of Representatives: Sadik Bahtić, Velimir Jukić and Branko Dokić. From the House of Peoples are proposed: Dušanka Majkić, Božo Rajić and Hazim Rančić. I'm opening a debate on this conclusion. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15149	It's not a debate, but I do need to propose a correction of the conclusions on the establishment of a temporary joint commission to determine the old foreign savings. So, not total foreign savings, but old foreign savings.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15150	All right. Is there anyone else? If not, with this correction, I call home, I conclude the debate. I call upon the House to plead on this conclusion. Please, you can vote. Now! ‘For’ 22, ‘against’ two, ‘restricted’ two. I find the proposal has passed. Moving to the 33rd item of the agenda: Ad. 33. Proposal for a conclusion on the allocation of the accumulated surplus income, presented in the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institution, is proposed by our Finance and Budget Commission 38 In line with the House's conclusion, adopted at the 14th session, the Commission submitted to the House of Ministers a proposal for a conclusion on the allocation of the accumulated surplus, and... it proposes the following conclusions: 1) It proposes to the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH, to achieve the accumulated surplus of income, presented in the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions for 2006, the priority schedules for: - building facilities for the needs of BiH institutions, with the aim of reducing the existing costs of leases, - the need to return refugees and displaced persons, - the need to equip and establish modern border crossings, - the needs of the BiH Directorate for Direct Taxation for the fight against all types of cross-border crime, - the implementation of wage reform in the BiH institution. 2) The Council of Ministers is asked to draw up a multi-annual capital investment plan as soon as possible in order to make the budget available more efficiently over the coming years. I'm opening an argument about the conclusion. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15152	There is no excellency, you know. How much for building buildings, for the purposes of institutions -- one brand, one million, ten million? How long has this surplus been since 2006? And to tell you the truth, I doubt this first one can be done, this item: building objects for the needs of institutions. We don't have land, we don't have projects, we don't have, you know, contracts with companies. It is now something that will only be possible in accordance with this point 2 in the following years, and it is put here as a first priority. So, I don't think this is prepared. Now, let's adopt this, we can't spend anything this year on this. We need to know how much for the purpose of returning refugees and displaced persons? How much for the pay? It's not, I mean, properly prepared. We're supposed to have exact amounts here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15153	Dear Ambassador Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15154	I'd like to get involved for a while. So, we've been on the Finance Commission twice, and the budget has discussed this. The first commitment was to go into budget rebalancing and was assessed as unrealistic, because the budget change procedure was as complex as adoption. 39 The second conclusion was that in the framework of the Council of Ministers' law, it was obliged to implement the surplus of the capital building decision and that was therefore not possible, and then there was the third acceptable solution that was delivered here: to schedule the budget according to this priority for this year, and the amount will be determined and discussed in the adoption of the 2008 budget. Thank you very much, this is the name of the Finance and Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15155	Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15156	The Honorable Chairman, in conclusion 2, is about directing funds to return, and that's good. However, one decision has never been respected since the signing of the Dayton Agreement, which is to form a fund to compensate for the destroyed property where it is not possible to return. We have to take care of it, because it was a huge pressure for citizens to form this fund once. I don't know how much these funds are, how much it would be possible to extract from these accumulated funds, but it's already time for that fund to be formed. So I suggest that in conclusion number two, equal treatment also has the return of refugees, but also the establishment of a fund to compensate for the destroyed property where it is not possible to realise the return.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15157	If no one's answering for a hearing anymore, I'm closing the argument. And now we have a situation in which we can vote on the conclusions of our commission, those agreed on by the Commission practically unanimously and the other is to vote on the possibility of bringing this back to our commission to be delivered... But I don't see that it can be done. Therefore, I am voting on the conclusion of our commission. I'm asking Dom to prepare himself. You can vote. Now! ‘For’ 19, ‘against’ three, ‘restricted’ three. I realize we've adopted these conclusions. We're going to the 34th item of the agenda: Ad. 34. Opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget on the Office’s materials for the examination of complaints, with a proposal for conclusions The House, adopted at the 15th session, tasked the Finance and Budget Commission with reviewing the Office's material for Appeals and removing shortcomings in the opinion. 40 The Commission followed the conclusion of the House: at its 15th session, it re-examined all the materials it had provided to the Office for the Review of Appeals, and delivered to the House on 19 October a Opinion proposing the adoption of the following conclusions: 1) The chair of the Office for the Review of Appeals is obliged that the Internal Organisation Regulation for which the Council of Ministers of BiH had already given its consent, subject to the establishment of objections to the BiH Ministry of Justice within seven days of its application, and that it was immediately delivered to the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Ministry of Justice. 2) It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to take the necessary steps within its competence to speed up the process of appointing a person to two vacant seats of a member of the Office to discuss the complaint. As regards this point, we received on 20 November from the Office for the Review of Appeals one material that they provided as information on the Commission's opinion on finance and the budget on the materials of the Office for the Review of Appeals, with a proposal for conclusions. We delivered this material to you for information. I am opening a debate and first I am asking MPs and representatives of our Commission on Finance and Budget: whether there is any need for this... the Commission's opinion to further explain. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15159	Here I'll do it very briefly; I mean what you've read. So, we've all heard again... what these conclusions say. I believe that this really needs to be done this way: to adopt the conclusions and all those who have certain obligations that arise from this conclusion, i.e. the conclusions, are very clear, to implement them as soon as possible. Because let's really end this this way. I mean, there's no point in... pulling this off.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15160	If there's no one more than MPs, I'd like to invite a representative... First Mehmedović, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15161	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to draw attention to a few things. In fact, during this session at paragraph 6, we seem to have had amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act that we have not adopted. In the application of the Public Procurement Act, non-compliance with the provisions of this Act by the so-called so-called ‘public procurement’ is evident. ...a contract authority, as precisely as it's called. Namely, the contracting authority wants its decisions on implementation, decisions to be implemented without the right to appeal, thus creating serious assumptions for the elements of corruption. 41 By not supporting the Office of Appeals as a second-degree body, whose dissatisfied party has the right to complain and to expect a legal remedy, I think it would encourage all those who wish to work in such a way as to disobey the Law on Public Procurement. There has even been a physical attack on employees of the Office of Appeals by, unfortunately, the employees of the Ministry of Justice of this Council of Ministers, which supports the fact that there are some, let me put it this way, insufficiently explained things when it comes to the Internal Organisation of the Office of Appeals. To avoid such things happening, so that we do not encourage those who wish not to comply with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, i.e. those who wish to deal with corruption and of which of course benefit, I suggest that this conclusion 1 corrugated: It is the Council of Ministers of BiH's duty to consider the request of the Office for the Review of Appeals on the legal basis of the Ministry of Justice's objection to the proposal for a Regulation on the internal organisation of the Office for Discussing Appeals with the Law on Public Procurement of BiH and other legal regulations. Which is in force, which has not been annulled, therefore we have not adopted amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, but we have the Law on Public Procurement in force! So here's what I suggest is that this conclusion is corrected in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15162	Thank you. I would ask you in writing to give me that conclusion. Jašarević, the honourable MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15163	I must say, I'm very sorry that we haven't passed the law, the amendment to the Public Procurement Act, but in that procedure, there may be some sort of consensus. What I would like to say is one of the important chapters: the insufficient effectiveness of that part of the law that speaks of the possibility that participants in this procedure may complain. I would like to say here: The law on public procurement does not talk about how to appoint the Chairman's Office of Appeals and, therefore, I would like to make it clear...... So there is no provision in that law that speaks of the way of appointment. Should I prescribe it? It was also a question of the adoption of the Public Procurement Act. I think it should be prescribed, but it's much more important in full capacity to put the Board of Appeals in motion. And it encourages me that at this point where we talked about the Review Office's summary report, we made one recommendation, one conclusion that all BiH institutions by 31.12 have passed the rules as a prerequisite for effective work. There's no other way out of this situation, so there's no other rational approach. The adoption of the Regulation opens up the possibility and changes thereof in the same way as the first one, in order for the first Regulation to be put into effect. It is the only way that the Office of Appeals would function in its full capacity, which would be important for the Council of Ministers to make an effort and fill the Office of Appeals with those perpetrators that are still missing. Thank you very much. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15164	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15165	Mr Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we have concluded last time on this issue that the Commission is reviewing the situation in this institution for the report, that a representative of the Board of Appeal is allowed to take part in the work of the Commission and that is respected, therefore, this is seen in the Commission Report. But I'm afraid our commission didn't finish the job. The bottom line is, let me remind you, the problem is that the Director of the Office of Appeals or the Head of the Office of Appeal considers that by the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers has been ordered to install in this Regulation something he considers illegal. I've well followed the debate and discussion after and of course he doesn't need to install anything that's illegal. But if he refuses to build something that's legal of him or what's required of him, then it's really a problem of his responsibility. The Commission, our commission, did not answer this key question, but said that the Office should install what the Ministry of Justice has said and deliver the matter in further procedure, but as an MP here, I do not have the position of our committee on the key issue. And I repeat again, if you are asked to install something that is illegal in the Internal Organization Regulation, I say to this director today: don't do it! You'd better get off that job than do it. But I would like to have our commission's position and to bring about this issue... today to see what it is that matters so that maybe we as Parliament can give an answer or return the matter, to give a concrete answer to this particular question. There is no answer to the specific question, it has gone over it, so a conclusion is proposed which would imply that everything is fine and that everything is legal, because that is the proposal and that it is intended to do so, that it is built and that it is... the essence.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15166	Thank you. I would ask the MPs, given that it may happen that we recomplicate this debate, to let the chairman's office first discuss complaints to say a few words about it, and then the MPs who thought now to come forward then, after him, once again, to report that then... after he spoke. If you'll excuse me, that's the way to do it. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Pilav, the chairman of the Board of Appeals. Here you go. I think we all remember Mr. Pilav from the last time he spoke here for half an hour, and here I am on behalf of all MPs asking you to cut it short to some reasonable measure so that we can all know what this is about or that this debate is not... going on forever. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15167	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen and ladies, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, or MPs, I will indeed try to be as brief as possible, to say in a few sentences the essence of the problem, since you are already familiar with this material that the Board of Appeal has delivered to this House of Parliamentary Assembly in 20.11.2007. After that, since there are various opinions between the Ministry of Justice and the Office for Discussing complaints about how to appoint and resolve the chairman's Office for Consideration of Appeals in order to act in a way that is usually... addressed in similar situations, we have again addressed the Office for Law at the Council of Ministers of BiH. I recall that even the first time he gave his first opinion in February 2007 he did not have any objections in the way of appointing the chairperson's Board of Appeal as the Board of Appeal has proposed. And we were looking again for the Office's position on this issue and we got the answer on November 9th of this year... You have it in the attached opinion. It said that the Legislative Office remains in that opinion it had previously given, so there are no objections in the way we originally suggested, which is quite different from what the BiH Ministry of Justice suggests. It is further stated, in order to remove the ambiguities regarding the election of the chairman's Office for the Review of Appeals, in order to achieve the best solution, we consider it necessary to implement appropriate amendments and additions to the BiH Public Procurement Act that regulate this issue. And there is also another sentence that is important by the Council of Ministers' Legislative Office, which said they also felt it would be necessary to act in accordance with the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH since 24 September 2007 and to address the constitutional commissions of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly for authentic interpretation of the legal provisions governing these issues. I would just point out that this problem would probably be resolved at the Council of Ministers' level by now, as there is a willingness to resolve itself at the Council of Ministers level, however, because of the situation that the Council of Ministers is currently functioning in the technical mandate, this issue has not been put on the agenda again. I hope that will soon be resolved. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15168	Thank you. Now we're going in a row. Dear Ambassador Novaković had an incorrect allegation and a respected MP, Jašarević, had nothing. You're giving up? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15169	Well, you see, Mr. Džaferović's incorrect quote is that our commission has not been decident in its position. In fact, she made it perfectly clear... two conclusions - after the debate was held and concluded that the BiH Ministry of Justice's action and the Council of Ministers in the process of adopting a Regulation on the internal organisation of the Office was legal. 44 So our Finance and Budget Committee said that this action was legal. Whether or not it is, or contesting the Office or the opinion that is... a few dozen times greater than this opinion of... our Finance Commission, is quite another question. I personally think, when I have taken it and I will no longer report, that some findings do not make sense as a finding of this information about the opinion, on page 3, that it is said that: the members of the Commission have not previously heard or read the content of the evidence. It will say that the members of the Commission have not done their job seriously. Look, this is a pretty serious accusation against the members of the Commission and it would be good if one of the members of the Commission said whether or not this is true what he wrote,...which is written in this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15170	Thank you. The answer to an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15171	Mr. Novaković, I saw you write that the action was legal, etc. What I miss, it's just two conclusions in two sentences. What is the position of the Office of Audit and what is the position of the Ministry of Justice? Your conclusion you will defend but, in order for me to accept it, I need to know what one claims, and what the other claims and it should stand here in this report and I haven't said anything else. After the presentation of this Director, it is clear, therefore, that there is a difference of opinion not only between the Office and the Ministry of Justice but also the Office for the Legislatives of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice. That's why I'm saying we wouldn't make a mistake: then let's make an assessment of who's who assesses what's legal and what's not legal? So, the Commission has its opinion first,...I don't think she's that institution, but let it stand for what she wrote, but they need those two sentences here to stand so that I can get involved in thinking about it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15172	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15173	The Committee on Finance and Budgets has, I think, two sessions if not three discussed this issue. Of course, at least I didn't get into it, and I don't know any details about what a proper interpretation is, and what's wrong with the interpretation of any legal provision. However, the Commission has managed one pure logic, one of the principles that I consider to be correct and correct now, which is that it is clearly given the powers of the Council of Ministers, the restoring ministries in terms of implementing the Public Procurement Act. And here I also think of jurisdiction in terms of who is authorised, who is obliged to offer a proposal for a solution to systematicisation and who is the rules, and who once again gives an opinion, approves the same. 45 I think that, as Parliament, one home of our Parliament, we should not and should not fall into the trap to be here an arbitration officer and that we should only call on the competent institutions, and that is the Council of Ministers with all its organization as it is, that according to our Office for Discussing Appeals, the law of the prescribed way again. I will also comment on Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović's proposal for a conclusion, estimating that he has certainly good intentions. But I don't think he's consistent and he's not in line with the way institutions work and responsibilities. So here it is in some way suggested or accepted, because it follows implicitly, that it is momentarily from this text here, when it is said - that the request of the Board of Appeals is reassessed. So, in advance, it is said that it is likely that someone who said otherwise what and how should be done has made a mistake! And I don't want to do it again, I'm going to repeat, that we don't fall into these traps, but that we really invite responsible institutions to do their job in accordance with their powers, responsibilities and everything in accordance with the law. And this conclusion in points 1 and 2 of the competent commission is actually going with it, without saying who's wrong, who's right, just saying to do every part of the job according to the law, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15174	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15175	I don't think I'm gonna answer for this again. Just to say what the point is, this Parliament is missing it here. Parliament shall appoint members of the Board of Appeals. We have appointed them, so Parliament, both houses of Parliament, appoints members of the Office. The office established itself by choosing between themselves the boss. Those amongst themselves, those whom Parliament has appointed. And the essence of the dispute between the Office and the Ministry of Justice is that the Office feels that they should continue to work so that they are built among themselves, and the law does not exactly edit the matter in a precise way, and the Justice Ministry says that their boss among them should choose the Council of Ministers. That's the point, and I want Parliament to know that. If we have an appointment from Parliament, it is no coincidence that the law has said that Parliament appoints these people. Then, in my opinion, it is closer to the aim of the law for them to organise themselves and elect the chairman, without the Council of Ministers tampering with it, because it is not therefore an accidental appointment by Parliament. That is the essence, I ask you, therefore, this is not a simple question this is therefore a very important and very important question, it will require, at the end of the day, or an amendment to this law or an authentic interpretation of this law by both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to resolve. Until then, the regime remains as it is. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15176	Dear Messenger Rajilić. Here you go. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15177	Ladies and gentlemen, here's listening to this debate, and getting dozens of calls from Republika Srpska about the Office of Appeals, now I just know why this isn't working. Obviously, it doesn't work because these people, and that is, the main and responsible in this institution, did not choose the Council of Ministers, but the people agreed. Well, of course they agreed on how best suits them. And this attitude, and that's the first time I've heard of it, somewhere that the people we choose agree on who will be in charge and responsible! Well, I guess it's always known who's in charge and responsible, or is defined by the Council of Ministers' appointment that goes in line with all those rules that go to agree between entities, etc., not to list them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15178	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15179	Well, it's very short. Given certain dilemmas, I think the Finance and Budget Commission has done exactly the right thing, and I, as its member, and has been responsible for this business. Certain dilemmas that exist have mechanisms that resolve. They cannot be an obstacle to solving the accumulated problems in this institution. Because the opposite effect of what we're proposing is to encourage a current state that's not good and can't be justified, because it's only on the dilemma it is or it isn't, is or isn't, it needs or doesn't need, nothing has been proven so far. And the Commission only acted on the basis of jurisdiction and on the basis of what was available to it and requested that everyone do their job and whoever has a particular dilemma and does not take procedural measures to resolve this dilemma cannot be the Commission's pan-day decision. And that's why I think we should be responsible for the conclusions. The Commission did not engage in this kind of dilemma that could be resolved otherwise, nor is it the place where these dilemmas will ever, ever be resolved.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15180	Thank you. If there's no more charges for discussion, I'm closing the debate. Will it be necessary? Here you go, Mr. Pilav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15181	I'm just going to say one or two more sentences for the Ministry of Justice's position for a short while. I delivered in these materials an earlier Internal Organisation Regulation prepared by Ms. Dragica Miletić, while she was the chairman of the Board of Appeals. It provided for the same way of appointment and resolution of the Chairman's Office as the current proposal for a Regulation on the internal organisation. The Ministry of Justice also gave opinions on the proposal, opinions, and had no objections to that Article 5, in the way of appointing the chairman's Office for 47 complaints, so that it would later change its opinion and take this opposite position which is now problematic. And one more sentence just to say, and I would end with it, which is that, despite all the very difficult circumstances in which the Office for the Review of Appeals has done so far, it has achieved significant results and it says, let's say, and the opinion of this Commission of the European Communities, made in Brussels on 6 November 2007, where it says, I will only quote one sentence: 'The new complaints are being settled at a satisfactory pace, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Office for the Review of Appeals.' But there are still backlogs from 2006 when the Board of Appeals had no quorum for decision-making. We've made over 1,250 decisions in this period so far, and I think we've really achieved good results, despite the circumstances in which we've worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15182	Thank you. We now need to make a statement: first, on the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget with its conclusions, and then we will put to the vote the conclusions resulting from the debate. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 18, four "against", "restricted" five. I find that we have adopted the opinion of our committee, with conclusions. I'm asking the promoter if there's any point in voting on your findings since they're opposed. Thank you. Moving to the 35th point of the agenda: Ad. 35. MP Denis Bećirović's initiative of 6 September 2007 in connection with the White Cove stadium On September 6th, the honourable MP submitted to the initiative. The Kolegijum was forwarded to the responsible Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to consider and deliver opinions on the Initiative. On 30 October, the committee responsible delivered its opinion on the MPs' initiative. You got that opinion and you saw that this commission didn't accept this initiative. In your opinion, you also have an explanation for not accepting the MPs' initiative. I'm opening a debate with the Joint Commission's opinion. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15184	Dear colleagues, I must express my regret that the Initiative has not received a passing grade. And I am particularly saddened at page 2 of the argument, which, unfortunately, states: 'In the course of the debate, it is pointed out that any initiative that speaks of strengthening multiethnicity is welcome, especially if it is the environment in which a bloody war like the city of Mostar took place.' Then we move on: 'But for this kind of initiative, it was necessary to seek the opinion of competent authorities such as football club, cantonal authority and city administration where these issues have been discussed for a long time.' It has been pointed out that this is a very serious political issue, and that there are a number of other very similar elements such as that Mostar has two universities, two city hospitals, I would say, two fire departments, I don't know if they've merged, etc., etc. It is further noted that this initiative will not contribute to reconciliation. That's embarrassing! But if that's the case, then without a replica here, I was deeply etched into the story of the one who pitted, pitted. And I suggest you make a statement about the Initiative and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15185	Thank you. If there are no more applications for discussion, I ask the House to make a statement on the opinion of our commission. Please prepare to vote. The opinion is negative: whoever votes "yes" means it is against this initiative. You can vote. Now!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15186	Gospon Živković, who votes "yes", is here for what he is, yes, I apologize only.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15187	I think I said it right, only you didn't listen well. Whoever votes "yes" our commission's report is against the Initiative. Please, please be careful. Please vote for our commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15188	Read the report. If you like it, vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15189	You can vote. Now! ___________) I'm asking you to repeat the vote. 49 Who's proposing to repeat the vote? The SNSD club proposes to repeat the vote. We repeat the vote. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 13, "against" 14, "restricted" one. Our commission's report didn't get positive and he's back to this commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15191	We're returning it to the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15192	We're returning to the board of directors, but obviously we need some suggestions to tell our commission how to commit now. _________(?) There are more important things than this. [[no microphone turned on]] Let's tell them that... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15196	It was agreed that we'd get the report, if you'd agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15197	I'm not at first. I'm sorry, I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15198	For brandy and wine, I'm interested in you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15199	Yeah. I didn't get a report from our commission, and that's the point we're going to solve as a previous question at that session over there, 28.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-17-0.u15200	Okay, thank you very much. The seat is closed at 14.10 p.m.
