ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8590	Dear guests, I am opening the 2nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin to determine the agenda that was announced when this session was called, I would like to provide a few brief information. So, in the break, we held a session of the College, held a session of the College, and in an extended composition, with representatives of the parties, or club presidents, those who were established, trying to create conditions for the selection of the working bodies, or commissions of this House of Representatives. Unfortunately, we have not been able to finish this job for the simple reason that not all clubs are formed, i.e. we do not have certain information, i.e. a certain argument that this process has been completed. By law, according to the Rules of Procedure, of course, it takes from the constitution of Parliament, seven days, and we have concluded the following, which I wish to inform you of. I ask that by Tuesday next week those political parties or those MPs who have ambitions and intend to make clubs do so, and in writing inform the sekretarijat. We scheduled a session for Wednesday of the Enlarged College, that is, with club representatives, club presidents, at the meeting we would like to try to spread the content of commissions, working bodies. We have established certain principles and I am asking the presidents of clubs, as well as those that will be formed, to prepare for Wednesday, to inform you of the meeting in writing. It's about using this time between these two sessions, and I'm also asking you once again, you've got a hundred instructions about using this technique, especially when it comes to voting, to look at it again, so we don't have any later problems and to use, of course, the experiences of those people who have been MPs before. Here's the thing, uh, the information. And now we're moving on to the agenda of today's session, and this very information tells me that by the nature of things we're going to keep at one point in the agenda. So, I propose that today we consider one two-point agenda, which is: Approving the appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8592	...because we're on, we get the opinion of the commission, which here is divided into a table as an integral part of this point. I'd like to make business arrangements right now, Mr. Belkić. According to the Council of Ministers Act, the commission is obliged to refer to the House of Representatives what it has come to, and the Council of Ministers Act states that any recommendation from the Commission that has counted these ten members should indicate how many people were against and the reasons for such votes, that is Article 10. Yot. We have in front of us a report from the commission which was signed by the chairman of the committee which is not in line with this Rules of Procedure. Namely, the chairman of the commission, here in charge of the rapporteur, however, the report says that what you see, in point two, is that it is recommended that Nikola Špirić be the chairman of the Council of Ministers with ten votes for and two votes against. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Genjac should have explained in a report by the Commission and the Council of Ministers, which is why these people were against it. general Halilović and I were against and in order not to explain here more than we should, I don't think the conditions have been met that, in accordance with the Council of Ministers Act, we have in the beginning an opinion of the Commission which is contrary to the law, which should bring unnecessary confusion into one, to a certain extent even a solemn act, regardless of its content.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8593	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija, we're discussing the agenda right now. So, on the agenda, we're not discussing documents that are accompanying and that are in some way, let's not say, an auxiliary tool for making a decision. I'm asking you to let us discuss the agenda now. Here you go. We're discussing the agenda. When we get here, Mr. Lagumdžija, when we get into a situation to discuss content, there will be an opportunity for all of you to make comments, suggestions and everything else that goes. So, is there anyone else on the agenda, if I don't suggest that, or I say, we have established, practically, the agenda for today's session, as we agreed at the previous session. So I realize that the agenda of the second session of House of Representatives 3 1. Approval of appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's chairmanship of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8596	Dear citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, distinguished members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, respected fellow MPs of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, gentlemen of the ambassadors, representatives of international and non-governmental organisations, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and friends, I have been given the extraordinary and rare honour of standing here today in front of all of you, awaiting a confirmation of the appointment for the post of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency Council of Ministers. 4 What I feel most in these moments is gratitude, pride and responsibility, and I use this opportunity to thank the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina once again for the trust shown. I would like first of all to welcome the members of the new College of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, congratulate them on the election, express hope and confidence that we will successfully co-operate over the next four years. With sincere congratulations to Mr. Živković and Mr. Lozančić, I would like to extend my special congratulations to the first House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Beriz Belkić, with a sincere desire for successful work. At the same time, I would like to thank the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the past democratic, also held elections and successfully held elections, and for the trust they have shown to the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats and to me personally. Accepting the post of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency Council of Ministers is a huge and rare challenge and I assure you that I will seek to justify this confidence by very concrete work in the interests of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to pay tribute to this occasion to all the achievements of the Council of Ministers led by my predecessor, Mr Adnan Terzić. Over almost four years, numerous and significant reforms have been achieved for BiH, on which Mr. Terzić worked with much courage and determination. However, and this will best be understood by Mr. Terzić, the natural task and the obligation of each successor is to go at least one step further. I hope those steps will be more. Ladies and gentlemen, our first task today is to look reality straight in the eye. I am speaking to you, unfortunately, at one breaking moment for our country. Instead of looking forward to the decade-long progress of post-war BiH, I am standing before you in moments when all the peoples and citizens of this country are stronger than ever express their torment, their impatience and open dissatisfaction. I assure you that I am fully aware of the gravity of the situation but that I am fully prepared to face it. We must not stand aside and hope that in the coming years, together with you, representatives of all peoples and citizens, with general support, I will be able to find a new way out of this unsustainable state. Dear fellow MPs, only our joint and coordinated work in new conditions and in the new climate, can we make BiH a better, richer and more successful country for all three of its constituent peoples and other citizens in the next four years. We need to change the culture of thinking. We need to revive the feelings of mutuality between those that fate has bound to the same country and which fate still makes us in the community today to provide a happier future for generations. We don't have to forget at all costs what we disagree on but whether it must always be, must it always be put in the first place. And why do we keep doing that? What separates us must always be subordinated to what is common to us. This needs much more insistence because there is a common interest in BiH everywhere and at all times. 5 This will be one of the thoughts, one of the thoughts of the leader and the basic spirit of work of the future Council of Ministers of BiH. As chairman of the Council of Ministers, I will particularly worry that we will clearly show that we are able to take on key state affairs in our own hands with regard to reduced presence and the application of the mandate of the international community. That is why I will try to work in the work of my cabinet, which is why I will focus on implementing a recently adopted strategy for the reform of the Public Administration in BiH so that during the period ahead, we can build an administrative apparatus that is ready, above all, to ensure that the citizens of our country fully achieve their rights and meet their needs and interests. We need to build an efficient and economical, unsuspecting and competent administration that needs to bring out a complex process of harmonisation and application of complex and comprehensive European registries. It is also necessary to compare the situation with the list of institutions that our state should have for the full application of European acquis and to create a plan for the establishment of missing institutions. Working on this difficult task, I will pay particular attention to the institutionalisation and coordination between the state and entities in order to systematically work on the implementation of our strategic documents to prove the strength and ability of domestic institutions to achieve one of the government's ambitious objectives by working together, which is the candidate status of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the process of Eurointegration. Only such can we expect full ownership of the reform processes for the better tomorrow of all citizens and future generations in our country. In a period of time after taking political fate into their own hands, the world will be more careful than it has ever been to monitor and evaluate our every move. We must take this opportunity to prove that Bosnia and Herzegovina can be a country from which the good news will come. Dear fellow MPs, you should not be reminded of how much your role in restoring trust to domestic institutions will be in the next period and therefore I call on you to take special care of it. The Council of Ministers must have continued and open co-operation with the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The absence of a representative of the Council of Ministers at home or commission sessions has often been highlighted as a problem. As a long-standing parliamentarian, I understand the importance of joint work by the executive and legislative authorities, and I will not allow important reforms and legislative projects to be slowed down due to poor coordination between the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I therefore intend to give one of my cabinet members a special task of maintaining permanent contacts with the relevant bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to provide a timely exchange of information and the presence of representatives of the Council of Ministers at all sessions of homes or committees. I hope and expect that the Parliamentary Assembly, and you, of course, all honourable MPs and delegates, will make a full contribution to effective joint work for the well-being and prosperity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The door of my cabinet will always be open, and the team I plan to gather to support my future work in this responsible place 6 will be decorated by the experience, knowledge, youth and the desire for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities and peoples living there to experience significant changes and progress. The security and stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities, economic development and progress, and integration into the European Union and NATO are the backbone of our common objectives. These honourable MPs, this way I call upon you to give me your support in this term of office, along with you, to lead the Council of Ministers on this important path. Before that, I would like to present to you in two primary parts of this exhibition the basic programme objectives based on the agreement of seven political parties on 3 January this year and the primary plan of the ministry's work in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The general objective of the Council of Ministers, as well as of all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is to address relevant issues concerning the signing of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. Police reform is a difficult issue but I sincerely believe that joint work, willingness to compromise and understand political reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be a successful solution. In co-operation with entity governments, police authorities and with the help of international organisations, I believe that a solution can be found acceptable to all. Practices that the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly must unnecessarily accept the results of commissions or other bodies that actually work for them will cease. The results of the work of the Directorate will be carefully reviewed, but the legally elected authorities will reach an agreement together on the future appearance of police forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, we are constitutionally and legally not bound by the documents drawn up by the Directorate, and this message must be clearly sent to those who think differently. The Council of Ministers will certainly make its full contribution. The reform of the public broadcasting system must be carried out in such a way as to be acceptable to all constituent nations and the Council of Ministers will make additional efforts to find acceptable, cost-effective and functional solutions. The media, and in particular the public, are an extremely important segment of our society and the state has, the state must provide them with full support and resources necessary for efficient work. saradnja with The Hague tribunal is a matter that must end as soon as possible, and this council of ministers' assembly through the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the help of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry of Defence, will seek to contribute. I plan to engage all available resources in Bosnia and Herzegovina together with entity governments to find and bring in war crimes suspects. State resources in SIPA, Bosnia and Herzegovina's State Border Service, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Intelligence Agency and the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ministry of Defence, that is, Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces, along with entity police forces, should be concentrated and permanently engaged in this task and given the necessary political and financial support. 7 Discussing corruption affecting Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation in the world, and hence its economic development is high on my list of priorities. Corruption and bureaucracy affect healthy economic development, which is unacceptable. I therefore expect and call for the co-operation of NGOs and media as primary factors that point to corruption. I sincerely hope by working together, we can take this phenomenon to the lowest possible extent. Amendments and additions to criminal legislation are part of our continuing efforts to achieve justice and combat crime that also undermines our economy but, worse still, morals and the system of values of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We often witness low sentences that are pronounced for serious crimes, especially against women and children. That's inadmissible. The Council of Ministers will, through the Bosnia and Herzegovina Justice Ministry, initiate amendments and additions to laws that will impose more penalties for crimes such as abuse and rape, but certainly against economic crime, organised crime, judicial corruption in the administration and so on. Education reform is too slow and a political agreement on legislative changes such as the Framework Law on Higher Education must be reached. In addition to the Law on Higher Education, we also want to support the adoption of other laws that will complete the legislation needed for effective implementation at entity and cantonal levels in line with European standards. I hope that we can provide our children with a quality and competitive education system that will bring us economic progress in return. We invite our friends in the OSCE Mission to provide us with help and support in this significant reform and thank you for our work so far. Other relevant programme objectives include: NATO membership is one of Bosnia and Herzegovina's primary strategic goals that will provide it with permanent stability and thus focus our attention on the issue of economic and comprehensive social development. After being admitted to the Partnership for Peace, we must not relax and liquefy too much because the hardest part of the job is now in front of us. Meeting the necessary conditions for NATO membership is a difficult job that will also require large financial and human resources, and we must be prepared to do so. However, no military budget can be measured with the permanent security and stability of the NATO alliance. The council of ministers will support Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence and armed forces in their future work. We also call on the NATO Command in Bosnia and Herzegovina to continue the valuable and professional assistance it provides in all areas of reform and defence of security. We hope that the NATO Command will remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina until its full membership in the NATO alliance. Bringing constitutional solutions was the most divided issue in the past period, now it is time for us to leave these divisions behind and talk openly about further steps on this issue. These conversations won't be 8 simple and no difference in opinion. And our destiny is, political wisdom requires of us maximum understanding and willingness to compromise. Let us not forget this responsibility to citizens and to the world that certainly does not require stubbornness and exclusion from us, they demand mutual respect and effective dialogue, nobody will ever convince me that a compromise between reasonable and well-meaning people is impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time, and also a place, that I, as well as this Parliament, express our gratitude to the US administration in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its Excellency, Ambassador Mekleheni, for the current engagement in the reform of the Constitution, which for me remains the backbone of the Constitution reform story in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, I urge them to keep their attention on this for Bosnia and Herzegovina's extremely important issue. To seriously continue talks on constitutional reform, the atmosphere for political dialogue within Bosnia and Herzegovina must be provided. But the atmosphere in which Brussels and Washington will provide, in a unique way, material and expertise in order to successfully complete this process. The Council of Ministers, my cabinet and I, are ready to do everything possible to make the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina the backbone of constitutional reform that will establish a functional and modern Bosnia and Herzegovina according to European standards. Ensuring full implementation of the Dayton Agreement including Annex 10 to ensure the successful final transformation of the Office of the High Representative into the Office of the European Union Special Representative. The Council of Ministers will work intensively with the Office of the High Representative to ensure the implementation of the process and as we have already pointed out, thus proving that Bosnia and Herzegovina has become absolutely self-sustainable and that there is no need for such a type of international supervisory. At the same time, we send a positive signal to the world that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a stable country to invest in. Ensuring an Agreement on the Excess of Assets, regulating state property status is high on the list of priorities of the Council of Ministers. Even though there are different opinions on the issue of state property, I am sure that we can find a legal solution that will provide a clear situation in practice. The Commission, which is currently considering the issue of state property, should give full support to prepare the technical aspects necessary to address this issue, but this issue also requires political understanding and political agreement. Regulation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's border issues, including the signing of appropriate contracts with neighbouring countries. In this process, it is of paramount importance to ensure the fulfillment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests, and the smooth exit to the open sea. As chairman of the Council of Ministers and also through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in addition to the guidelines of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will make every effort to further improve relations with neighbouring countries and address these and other relevant issues. 9 Realising through the necessary economic reforms that will provide international economic sovereignty, a unique economic space in which the creation of new jobs and higher employment will be speeded up. Under its competence, the Council of Ministers will support new investments and key privatisation projects. That is why it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to act gradually on entity governments, to achieve as much economic and economic growth as possible. We are aware that the dynamics of the economic growth rate at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina will depend on new, especially foreign investments. That is why political and legislative stability is needed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also call on the entity governments to make the fight for employment their primary concern. In conditions where nearly half of the active population is unemployed, this battle must not be lost. The Council of Ministers will therefore advocate co-ordinated action with entity governments and whenever these issues are on the agenda, they must always be first. For this fight, I need general support for the responsibility of all states, entities, cantons, municipalities, especially unions, businesses and various associations. I invite them all to a continuous and vigorous fight against unemployment. The dynamic rate of economic and economic growth, as well as the taking of other necessary measures, should create a condition for reducing the alarming foreign trade deficit in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will make the new council of ministers imperative. The Council of Ministers will stimulate entity governments to step up social security reform. Why do we appreciate that the current system of pension and social security creates a sense of various injustices. The feeling of injustice is food with political dissatisfaction, when the search for the guilty rests on the destructive phenomenon of jealousy that causes divisions in society. These phenomena destabilize society especially when there is a cultural and other distributions conditioned by war. That is why, at that moment, the task of social policy is to stabilise political and social order as well as to overcome the co-demand nationalist accusations. Aware of the tightened social system in BiH, the Council of Ministers will offer this Parliament different variants of introducing a differentiated VAT rate. To address these problems, I urge all relevant trade unions in BiH to help us find the best possible solutions in this area with their advice and suggestions. The Council of Ministers will lead a policy of balanced economic development across BiH's territory as part of its economic reform activities. This will require consistent, bluish measures on the relation of countries-entities and local communities. Encourage the development of agriculture and tourism and the protection of the human environment in BiH, agriculture is crucial to BiH's development, and this Council of Ministers will pay considerable attention to farmers. Until the establishment of the agriculture ministry, I plan to hire a special adviser on the issue of agriculture and dedicate a significant part of the time to this issue. Tourism is a branch of which we can expect a significant boost to BiH's economic development. The Council of Ministers will encourage excellent projects that advertise BiH and thus affect the increase of the number of tourists, and hire young and successful people to develop ideas and projects in the field of tourism. The development of agriculture and tourism will not be if we try to destroy the environment by our reckless actions. The Council of Ministers will take concrete steps that must improve the state of play through the creation of the 10 BiH Environment Act and the establishment of the Environment Agency. Authorities can first begin to set an example for others by increasingly switching to electronic business and relying less on paper, recycling, and keeping an eye on our environmental conscience. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a clean and beautiful country and let's try to save it for future generations. Paying attention to the problems of young people in BiH, otherwise the constant commitment of the SNSD, but I believe other parties as well. Reforming the education system and economic development contributes most to the better position of young people in BiH. However, it is not the end of the Council of Ministers' activities because we are more than ever committed to hiring young people, especially in responsible responsibilities in the authorities and administrations. I intend to maintain regular contacts with youth representatives and, based on these talks, I am giving concrete tasks to the Council of Ministers in order to adopt and implement decisions necessary to improve youth status. We must not let young people, rather than represent the hope and future of this country, be most disappointed with it because it offers them nothing. The neglect of young people is a failure for BiH and the Council of Ministers will certainly not be passive towards them. On the contrary, we can specifically begin to address the issue of 600 vacancy in the public ministry. I suggest that, in the short procedure provided for by law, it be accepted on three occasions by 200 trainees. Following the expiry of the traineeship, in accordance with the law, they would be promoted to civil servants. A large number of them could be strategically prepared for the multi-year process of BiH's European integration. A number of young people with solid foreign language skills should immediately be sent abroad to train our young people, instead of fleeing to Europe and the world, to bring BiH into Europe with their knowledge. The return of refugees and displaced persons is the process we want and we must successfully resolve it through joint work. Although we must acknowledge that the results in this area are not what we would expect, the Council of Ministers will pay full attention to this issue and give its support. BiH is a country that must provide every resident with full freedom of movement and the right to live in a place he chooses. The appropriate program and with the help of the donor will work to ensure a sustainable return. The construction of a highway on Corridor Vc in the past period has crossed the path from idea to preparatory activities. Now it's time to make concrete moves and start construction work. The council of ministers will make every effort to complete significant parts of the highway during this term. Security on our roads, impact on economic development, and fast and cheap transport have also received benefits from the highway and I will therefore insist on speeding up all activities and concrete results at the end of each construction season. Gasification in BiH, especially in today's times of energy crises and disputes, is an important project to ensure BiH's energy stability. Although this is a long-term project, the Council of Ministers will make every effort to complete a significant part of this project by the end of the mandate and thus provide BiH citizens with stable and quality energy supplies. The project is also related to other economic development projects and our international policy and relations with the countries of gas suppliers. 11 Commissions to determine the truth in war crimes are instruments that can further contribute to the true and complete reconciliation of the people of BiH. It is essential that the work of these committees is not misused or extended. The Council of Ministers will therefore support their work and also ensure their full independence in the work. I call therefore upon you, honourable MPs, to give us full support in this sensitive business. The role of the media is also important but I am sure the media will take into account the sensitivity of this issue, and by reporting and investigative journalism, further contribute to the discovery of the full truth about the war crimes of all BiH citizens. In addition to these general objectives, which seven parties have accepted as their own, I believe that further attention should be paid to some burning problems, noting that topics with similar problems will come with the same determination. That, first of all, is the question of old foreign savings. As you know, I have managed to put old foreign exchange savings on the agenda of the BiH Constitutional Court session in order to legally provide the old foreign currency savings with a solution to this extremely important issue. I think it was neither correct nor human to propose an excessive 13-year-old solution, nor a short pre-election solution of 5 years. A compromising and medium solution is always possible. Unreal solutions must not be proposed, but those that are state-ready to follow, or respect. You don't need old savings ideally, but implementing the law behind which the state would stand as a guarantee that the last mark would be paid. The Council of Ministers will do everything possible to minimise the expert team's 13-year-old time. Another issue to pay particular attention to is the adoption of a law on the confiscation of illegally acquired assets. That can't be a taboo topic. It's a question to finally face. I believe that this is, in fact, a condition for the return of trust in the BiH government, and I hope that this House will achieve a full consensus. We must also not forget the issue of the law on the restitution, that is, the return of property, the compensation of natural and legal persons, whose property is subject to the rules on aggregate reform, confiscation, secristration, nationalisation and expropriation that were adopted and applied after 1945. I plan to hire legal experts to discuss these issues in detail and propose appropriate solutions. And now I'm going to introduce you to the framework work of the ministries. The foreign ministry, the primary task of this ministry, but also the entire Council of Ministers, is the rapid signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, whose negotiations have just been successfully completed. The process of European integration, i.e. the process of stabilisation and accession, cannot be seen separately from the overall reform process in BiH, as you know to sign the agreement, it is necessary to reach a compromise solution on police reform as soon as possible. When the issue remains behind us, we hope that as soon as possible, if the reform process continues, and in particular meet the key priorities of the European Partnership, by the middle of this year, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement could be signed. The agreement will allow formal EU accession during an agreed transition period, during which BiH would adapt its legislation to the most significant standards and rules of the EU single market. In my cabinet, the European 12 Integration Directorate, which aims to prepare for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, has launched preparatory activities to develop a plan for the implementation of the agreement, as well as a programme for BiH's integration into the EU to bring together the integration and commitment strategy of the Agreement and the European Partnership, with a view to implementing key reforms. In addition to the Directorate for European Integration, which plays a significant role in the European integration process, all competent institutions have been involved from the very beginning in drawing up a plan for the implementation of the agreement and the integration programme. In this context, coordination mechanisms should be strengthened and activities continued to form units for European integration in all institutions including the process. They should also be strengthened in human form. To speed up the process of obtaining EU candidate status, the Council of Ministers will propose strategic staff reinforcements, the engagement of the best of our diplomats and other experts in all our missions, directorates and sectors related to Eurointegration. All forces must concentrate on this great European exam. With quality work to be monitored by the Council of Ministers, and with visible reform, institutional and technical progress in the integration process, it is realistic to expect that in the second part of the mandate of this Council of Ministers we will have the status of candidates for full EU membership. This will be the top priority, not just one ministry, but the whole state. The second long-term objective of BiH's international policy plan is our candidacy for a non-permanent Security Council member from 2010 to 2011. Even though our chances are realistic, the success of this candidacy depends on the good part of us, that is, on the advancement of our European record, and on the quality, intensity of our relations with the Member States of the Council for the Implementation of the Dayton Agreement and the permanent members of the Security Council. The status of EU candidates could be significantly outweighed in our favour when deciding on the UN's bid. At the same time, sitting in a difficultly accessible and sought chair to the Security Council would symbolically mean that our country has gone far enough from the war past. In the context of these multilateral activities, we must not forget that we must continue to pay full attention to our actions in the Council of Europe, NATO, other regional initiatives where BiH is a full member: the Central European Initiative, the Adriatic Ionian Initiative and the like, and organisations where the observer, the Movement of Unclassified, the Organisation of the Islamic Conference and so on. As for interstate co-operation in our troubled region, good news is coming to us, which confirms that even by the nature of its geographical strategic position and by many other things, BiH is becoming the champion of regional co-operation. Since May of this year, Sarajevo has become the headquarters of the Regional Co-operation Council. It is a body that will inherit the Stability Pact and be the centre of the co-operation process in Southeast Europe. Permanent engagement in this centre will have more than 20 diplomats from all countries in the region, the European Commission and donor countries. The BiH institution will provide all logistics support and enable its normal work. 13 Using this success that will naturally bring us closer to our neighbours from the former common state, we need to deal with a few open issues with the same neighbours, very important for a large number of our citizens who suffer because of the slow resolution. Here, first of all, I mean too long negotiations with Slovenia. It has already held 5 rounds, last in June of last year, on the conclusion of a bilateral social security agreement. This issue, which is technically addressed by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, is a life issue for over tens of thousands of workers with the participation of the Slovenian internship for more than 12 months and who cannot achieve their pension right due to the failure to sign a social security agreement between BiH and Slovenia. BiH continues to insist on re-determining pensions, which Slovenia has so far refused, and thus becomes the only republic from the former Yugoslavia with which no pension calculation has been agreed. I will deal with this issue first time in contact with the Slovenian prime minister. There is also a problem of property relations with Croatia. I primarily think of the position of Srbin from Croatia who are left without property in Croatia, who now live in BiH. In addition to regular procedures, I will further address this problem with the Croatian prime minister. And finally, I remind you that the Council of Ministers is in the procedure of the Foreign Affairs Act. The new council will review it again and we hope to vote soon. The finance and vault ministry, given the existing constitutional solutions to which BiH and its institutions do not have original fiscal jurisdiction, the place and role of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury in this area will depend directly on future constitutional solutions. I note that the proposed constitutional change package provides for shared fiscal jurisdiction between the state and entities, which should be accessed with a specific dose of responsibility. It is known that BiH has completed a technical part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that there will be significant commitments for the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, regardless of its lack of clear original, constitutional and legislative competences, as someone must take on co-ordination relating to individual chapters and policies of co-operation set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury in the coming period will pay attention to the following medium-term tasks: ending the implementation of the Agreement after the signing of a succession of former SFRY, as well as co-ordination with the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs in the implementation of Annex E, continuing the organisation of negotiations relating to the conclusion of the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to taxes and income with other countries, and according to priorities established by the Council of Ministers of BiH, training of the Ministry of Coordination with the Central Bank of BiH and entity finance ministries in relation to the implementation of legal procedures relating to the administration of the internal debt, old foreign savings, restitution and war damage, coordination with the Central Bank of BiH, entity finance ministries and the Directorate for 14 economic planning, in relation to the publication of general government financial statistics, the establishment, the establishment, the effective and the establishment of financial management of public security systems in BiH and the financial institutions, and the supervision of the financial institutions of their respective institutions, the financial institutions and the financial institutions of BiH institutions in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8597	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Just one moment, two sentences to say. So, thank you, Mr Špirić, in this way, in accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure, we meet the pre-election procedure for appointing the chairman. [[APLAuz]] We still have a hearing to discuss. 22 So, at this point, I am opening a debate with a note and a reminder, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, that the discussion is up to 10 minutes, and a replica of up to 3 minutes for those who have not possibly looked at it in the Rules of Procedure. Please sign in. Please sign in. Here you go. Are there any more reported? Please try to make a plan. Yes, you can, press the button. So the first one applied for Mr. Lagumdžija's hearing. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8598	Thank you, Mr. Belikć. Two prime ministers aren't here, and there's whether, and I'm sorry, I didn't, I can see this Terzić. I'd like to say something about the exposé right away, and later, in the end, I'd like to say what Mr. Genjac didn't say and, purely procedurally, I'll say something in the end. Mr. Špirić, at the end of his presentation, was quite detailed, extensive, invited by the opposition to make his contribution. I am immediately responding to his call and I want to make a contribution to his government, in general, in the terminology of Mr Špirić, which we have heard here, his government is something that I alone welcome. It's a big change compared to some earlier time. I think it's very good that we have this kind of exhausted document that, given what kind of document we got four years ago, this document is, by the number of characters on the scale, whatever you want, five times longer than the document Mr. Terzić presented to us. And that's good at first sight. Unfortunately, I'm afraid the contents of these two documents, when it comes to the level of specificity, are practically the same. We have here given a very nice inventory of goals, but what I expected from fellow Špirić is that, in addition to these goals and the list of wishes that we fully support, we have several concrete at least concrete indicators of how to work, who and when to work, even some of the capital things that are given here. I also welcome his obligation to carry out an annual review of his associates' work. I hope that, finally, after five years in Parliament, we will have one obligation under the law, including by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure, that once a year the chairman of the Council of Ministers submits a report to us. Knowing how much Mr. Špirić and himself have been looking for this failure for the past four years, I believe that this time he will really come out to meet himself from the time he was an MP. I think it's very good and I welcome his promise here. And I also think that I particularly welcome these, a few specific facts that have been presented here. I particularly welcome his only, as far as I've seen him, a specific number, and that's the number of 600 vacant jobs in the state service that he's thinking of filling with three 23 times two hundred trainees and I think it's really something that he should have full support for this Parliament. Any difficulty he has on that road, he can be sure that he will have the support to overcome it. I also welcome his, at this level of exposure, yet encouraging statement, that he will insist on the law of confiscation of robbed property. I was a little afraid that the size of the coalition wouldn't separate that commitment. But what, on the other hand, discouraged me a little, is a promise that this law will come with consensus. kolega Špirić, I ask you not to ask for four years of consensus in this House on the law of confiscation of robbed property, you will not be able to achieve it. You are a serious man, you know very well that the consensus in this country, which is obviously divided on one such issue, this country is not divided into two entities and three peoples as divided into two layers in this society and it is one that supports such activity, and the other that oppose and do not seek consensus because otherwise you will get nothing. I also want to, by expressing my satisfaction with the fact that we have received such an exposé, to express my dissension and simply regret, I expected from my fellow Špirić, as a man who, however, is a professor of exact science, who has always been an exact positionary, that, however, he has given us several concrete, measurable parameters according to which his government, which I am now calling here, without fear that someone in power will tell me that it is not a government. Let's see what we're going to do on the plan of reducing the number of 638 000 employees on the plan of increasing that number, even to the number we had five years ago. What will be done on the plan of unemployment and its reduction of 521 000 people in this country. It is good for his determination to insist on even economic development, that the two entity governments and the state government act in coordination. Unfortunately, the number of unemployed in this country has increased by 14 000 in the past year, thanks to the Federation and Republika Srpska, the number has been reduced and will need much work to bring such a thing together. This is certainly the call and part of the coalition that makes up the entity majority in the Federation. What I would like to say specifically, what I think, is that we have remained deprived of our mandate on today's exposé for a few things. What I'm worried about, Mr. Špirić, is I'd like to ask you to elaborate this a little bit at the very beginning since you've stated that you're going to institutionalize the coordination between the state and the entity. I'm a little intimidated by the institutionalisation of the co-ordination between the state and the entity, as a substitute for a serious constitutional reform that you yourself have identified. I'm glad this is the primary plan, which means there's a secondary plan, which is good. But I'd like to ask that, I'm a little disappointed and I'd like to hear from other people in the ruling coalition, do they support what's been said here? Police reform, it is clear here that the Directorate will no longer play the role given by the previous parliament. I'm worried if part of the ruling coalition isn't, then I'm even more concerned. Then constitutional reform, however, was expected by the prime minister to tell us at least a few elements, at least some phases if not the whole, until then with whom and how. 24 What also concerns me here, the invitation of the chairman of the Council of Ministers that you will vote today, it is not disputed at all, that OHR should leave. When? After what? Is this the position of the parliamentary majority, that the OHR, as it is said here, should leave to show that we are ready to take our fate into our own hands. I'd like to see if the parliamentary majority really thinks what we've heard here in the exposé, that there are no conditions whether or not to leave? Then, when it comes to economic reform, Mr Špirić, I would ask you to answer. By yesterday, you supported us in the law, about the law of confiscation of robbed property, it's okay, we know how it's going to end. I'm interested, you said here that you would offer Parliament different VAT variants. You don't expect different variations and you and I know that we have these variants. You're expected to say what variant you're in. At least as your wish, to know what you will stand for in that ruling majority of yours. Maybe we'll back you up. When it comes to Corridor Vc, I would ask you to, however, and I expect at least some of the people in the federal section, so to speak, the parliamentary benches, the ones chosen in the Federation, that's what I mean. It says here that Corridor Vc has gone from idea to preparatory activity. Mr. Špirić, you may have come through Mostar, uh, but those preparatory activities were completed five, six years ago and you've partly driven yourself to Sarajevo, if you've come from the direction of Zenica. So, don't sell us the story that you've been preparing so far and that you're about to go, you're going to invoice these 30 kilometers that you made them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Still, you're driving there too. I'm interested in what's of that promise we discussed that on Corridor Vc, it's going to be in part of this elaborate of yours and the arms towards Tuzla as the appendix of this country, as one of the four natural regions and Banja Luka. If things are going to work out with Banja Luka highway to Zagreb, then that's a good thing, but what about the separates from Banja Luka towards the rest of BiH and its integration, and Tuzli, which was earlier. When it comes to old-age foreign savings, I would ask other coalition partners to tell us if they agree that when they're 13 years old, this needs to be reduced. I agree that it should be reduced. But you have a signed document from your two coalition partners who signed each other that it will remain for 13 years. So I just wanted to see if you had any consent, any kind of deal, we should know. What scares me, fellow Špirić, is this very precise part of you talking about fiscal advice and changing the role of the Management Board for indirect taxation. Is that what you're recommending for us to start constitutional reforms in a different direction, to go back to 2001 and 2002? I'd like you to clear that up a little bit. I know what I'm gonna say when it comes to the agenda. But let's see at the level of strategic commitment, probably Mr. Novaković, clearly we will not agree on where to go, but let's see if Špirić is going with Novaković or with me, as far as I'm concerned. 25 When it comes to the World Trade Organisation, it's a little bit of this, Mr. Špirić, you know better than I do, that we're going to participate in the 2007 meeting on VPO, this is the second Council of Ministers to tell us that they're going to bring us in, and you've now come to the meeting... What I'm particularly concerned about is what we expect from you, though, even if you give us some exact parameters when it comes to unemployment and trade deficits. I see the current prime minister smiling. A trade deficit, uh, for one simple reason that a trade deficit is something that, apparently, deserves to be mentioned as a commitment and how we're going to do it. No, I'm not Fidel Castro. I'm not Fidel Kastro. I'm not Fidel Castro. I'm not even Adnan Terzić to speak 15 times shorter, who spoke so much four years ago. But here's the end, Mr. Belkić, since you've already been taken by anxiety, there's no reason, you've just begun. I would like that, when Mr Špirić was already talking about the Law on Citizenship and talking about the revision of citizenship, which certainly is something to have, to pay attention to. But what about those 500,000 of our citizens around the world who, as far as I know, in the coalition agreement of part of your coalition, is that the law will change and we will take down an enigma with 500,000 people around the world who live in fear that they might give up without BH citizenship. It would be good for you to support it because, as I recall, as a position you supported it and that would be a big step, if all of us here together, if we could reach a consensus about it, not giving up overnight half a million of our people. Here's something that, I'm sure, in this House, if Špirić came out and the entire ruling coalition, that the opposition would go, at least half the opposition would. And finally, I, Mr. Špirić, hope that you will not, uh, take the wrong way, I am obliged after this time to say, Mr. Belkić, what I expected from the president of our commission, the president of the commission, because I could as a member of the commission. So, then, let me say what I expected to be made clear at first. And I call on the president of the commission today to meet 12 members, in which, here you have received a report, that 10 people were in favour and that 2 people were against the appointment of Mr Špirić for the reasons prescribed. In fact, we're in that commission, and Mr. Genjac, I called him twice at the beginning and before the session and asked him on the committee himself to say why the two men were against it because it was due, under the Council of Ministers' Law, to explain what he was against. And therefore, Mr. Belkić, I must say that two MPs, among whom I was one, were against the appointment of Nikola Špirić until some of the ambiguities that were in the documents that we had before us were made clear. It is that the procedure prescribes that SIPA and the Election Commission provide their assessment of the regularity of the information necessary for the appointment of the President of the Council of Ministers. We saw that the Electoral Commission also gave confirmation that everything was fine, and then Mr Špirić informed us that he, in fact, did not file his property card before this election in 2006, which is, in fact, the matter of the Election Commission. We of Mr Špirić have heard that he has no legal sanction for such a thing, which is true, but if someone who was also an MP in this House, and now needs to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and says I don't have to because the law doesn't mean sanctions, that's the law, so I won't do it, because there's no sanctions I won't do anything. Then I'm afraid it opens up a space we don't need. 26 I also felt that the president of the Council of Ministers, who forgets a part of his biography, is not disputed that Mr Špirić's biography said he was the chairman of the SRS Executive Committee Vojislav Šešelj in the war. That's what he wrote honestly. It's not a dispute where all the parties have been in so far, but he forgot one part of his biography when he was a member of the City Committee SK, who I know is an honorable part of his biography, but it doesn't need to skip, in fact, the fact that you skip something like that, actually, is talking about you being able to sign a document about yourself that stands for something that's incorrect, and how tomorrow you're going to sign a document that we need to trust you. So, the question of these checks, in fact, for these reasons, I would ask, since, therefore, for those of us who were against it, it is unacceptable to go into the appointment of mandates until this matter is clear, what was the property situation by the documents it gave to the Election Commission, as it is now, and we are not against it. And I, like Mr. Špirić, am a well-settled man who, as a professor of the university, earns money, and as a consultant. We're not against people having a lot, but we're about to know if you paid taxes on how much you have and how you got there. That's what's expected... and that's why I don't believe we're going to reach a consensus on the laws that are listed here if we can't clear things up in time. And I've been looking, and I think now, that Mr. Špirić, I believe he had no reason to make such inaccuracies. But precisely for the reasons of dignity and that institution that represents us here, and this famous first meeting of that commission, in fact, has set up the way they will work in the future. If we go over it now that it's a technical matter, then there's nothing to it. I would therefore ask if, that these things be made clear so that the commission in its further work may have a rapper to which we treat ourselves. I repeat again, Mr. Belkić, you and 32 you have most. We are the opposition, we are against the current mandate after the exposé, naturally. We weren't so tough before until we heard the exposés, uh, but now we're clearly and explicitly against it. And you will vote our fellow Špirić today, but please don't behave like you did this morning. You are Mr. Belkić, however, a man with more experience than yesterday's chairman, sorry, this morning's, and it would be good to respect the procedure until the end, for this country's sake, because of its citizens whom counterpart Špirić rightly welcomed and invited them to be as active as we all are together. Finally, Mr. Belkić, I would like to thank Prime Minister Špirić for, however, showing that he is holding on to the programme objectives signed by 7 parties. I invite you from the ruling coalitions of 7 parties, especially those who have the opposite views of what is standing here, to give up your views with your voice and to support your Prime Minister Nikola Špirić, if you are not going to ask him for answers to the question of where this country is going now, obviously, to lead Nikola Špirić and I wish him luck because, as he said, we are all on that ship together no matter what. This country Titanikn't make a Titanic no matter what it looks like we're on board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8599	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Novaković, get ready for Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Behind that goes Mr. Raguž. I asked you all to apply immediately, which you have the ambition to discuss, but apparently now it's later on, and we're going to record 27. But here we are not to confuse Mr. Novaković, please. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8600	My fellow Members, I remember in the previous session when Mr. Terzić submitted his programme on one page, that Mr. Živković asked for a break to study the programme prior to his statement. Here I am not going to ask for a break to study this program, although it is much longer than that one page and I want to express my sincere hope that future ministers will take over from this exposé. Although, formally legally, they don't have to, according to current legal decisions. I also sincerely hope that the often used term government is not prejudged on the current constitutional and legal framework but a figurative term for the Council of Ministers. I will not enter the exposé as deeply as Mr. Lagumdžija and I sincerely hope that Mr. Špirić does not have a dilemma about whether he will be with Zlatko or with me. I think it's a little clearer then. I have several comments, first of all on page 6, the last paragraph, is a vague expression of what the backdrop of the Constitution's reform story means, and I believe that, in fact, this one wants to say the proposed or existing solution, so, which was proposed in the previous, in the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, which did not receive the support of this House. On page 7, when it comes to regulation of the border issue, it would be very important, too, if the regulation of the Sava border had been mentioned, and especially in Costa Rica, because we know that this problem has been present for many years, and that we haven't solved this problem as well as all of them, so that we remain questions so that we finally define the entire border of BiH. On page 17, and in accordance with the Dayton Agreement and its annexes, it would be good for this ministry to provide conditions and for the remainder of those displaced persons who have expressed their desire to remain in existing residences, not just those who return. On page 20, in a description of the Ministry of Civil Affairs' jurisdiction, there is one activity missing, or we had guarantees in the last term that it would be completed by 2010, which is a census and it would be good if we found it in this exposé. Of course, I also welcome a number of views expressed in this exposé, especially I welcome the attitudes concerning taking responsibility for BiH's future by domestic institutions. As well as the view that, indeed, on page 18, the position to withdraw foreign judges from the BiH Constitutional Court, since I had in the past a law that did not receive, however, support. And in the end, I have one dilemma left, since we later received page 15, which lacks the last paragraph, asking the chairman, or the future chairman, whether he gave up the last paragraph, which actually solves the national balance in the Ministry of Defence or not, or whether 28 errors were written in the first part or, in fact, was dropped on this list that we later received. In view of these remarks, but also a series, I said, attitudes that are acceptable to SDS MPs, but again I note the fact that we will act oppositionly in these four years. The SDS MPs will be abstentioned on the plea, so on this support to Mr Nikola Špirić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8601	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Now it's registered here, Selim Bešlagić, to prepare Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8602	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the presidency, allow me to congratulate you on your choice and at this point agree with my predecessors who have exposed certain shortcomings. However, I must express my great satisfaction with such an exposé that, for the first time in this state parliament, has shown me that BiH's development prospects can also be given from the point of view of BiH's citizens. But I also want to highlight a few shortcomings in this exhibition, not as my predecessor with the pages because there are no comments, or these shortcomings. In the entire exposé of Mr Špirić, there are three governments, two entities and BiH, the Brcko District government is missing, and I would ask you, as a matter of fact, to consider it, because I think it is something that could be negative, in general, in a good analysis. Secondly, when you spoke about the talks with the neighbours, you mentioned that you would particularly advocate, in part, for citizens of Serbian nationalities who have lost their property in Croatia, which I absolutely welcome. But I ask you not to forget, just in those conversations with the authorities of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, to discuss some 60,000 workers who worked in Croatia before the war and had, acquired their property and during the war left Croatia in fact but never solved their questions. I think it is very important because it is also a matter of the fact that the Commission for Human Rights of this Parliament, in its proposed assembly, has adopted its position adopted by Parliament, that these talks must be opened with the Republic of Croatia. One very important point of view, I am speaking from the aspect of the technical face, is that you must support and find a mode of introduction and acceptance of standards in BiH. Something we lack and what we are missing today, we are in fact destitute for one simple reason that all standards of other states in BiH are valid, but BiH's standard in other countries is not valid and that order must be introduced there. I think it's very important. And in the end, I'd say what I noticed and what I have to say. The lack of this report is that you've given no deadline anywhere, so it's acceptable to me as a whole, but I think that if certain, if anything, on certain impact elements that you've highlighted in the first position, it's very good to know whether 29 constitutional reforms are going to start or, rather, suggest in three months or six months, or in a year, it doesn't matter, but that date, police reform by when it ends? Because if these are the conditions that the international community says as our basis for negotiations to join the European Union, I think they are dates. However, I think, in the end, that all of what we have said and what is likely to be, many others point out, it is not disputed that, perhaps in the first appearances, in the first proposals and these dates, formulate and which could affect the quality of the work, and I must say, the work of the opposition will be such that we are just acting constructively in this sense, that what you have drawn and realized here. I wish you all successful work, Mr. Špirić as your prime minister, but also to all ministers whom you, if it is by the criteria you are looking for, hope it will be correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8603	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Martin Raguž. Have Miss Azra Hadžiahmetović prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8604	Thank you, Mr. President. I join the cards, I know what awaits you, I wish you success, and it is up to us to support you. The College and to step up the work that stands before the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives. I will also start from where they are mostly heard from after the opposition's debate, the opposition has begun to comment on the presentation of Prime Minister Mr Špirić, but in another way. So, since these were the programme objectives that managed and bound the mandates that were defined and signed on 3 January this year and how much the mandater was responsible, he took the political agreement into his presentation and his approach, what awaits him in that position. And right away, to be positive, I don't think I've seen a more responsible approach to such a political statement for a long time through the operationalization of this presentation and on that side, indeed, honest congratulations. So, I do not think that Mr Špirić, unlike Mr Lagumdžija, has deviated from the basic programme objectives and priorities identified there, but rather, I believe that he has adopted it to the greatest extent possible but has also given one dimension which, of course, every prime minister, or chairman of the Council of Ministers, must have. And I also welcome that dimension, that's the dimension of personality and my own vision from that position, that we finally have that kind of approach in this House. Which should also be hailed as a new step. As for the very content of the exhibition, I will say very briefly, respecting that other representatives of the parties would like to say, here on behalf of HDZ 1990, I will say the following: I think that the exposé recognized the moment in which BiH is located. It is a stalemate in the reforms and reforms they expect, including priorities that should be on the agenda of this Parliament and the Council of Ministers. Let me remind you, this is the first anti-stabilisation and association where we have 30 consensus, regardless of whether we belong to a position or to an opposition, we have all committed ourselves to promoting and helping this Euro-Atlantic path, and it is high on the list of priorities. We know what the basic condition is, and I don't think Mr Špirić has been negatively determined under this basic condition, I think, on the contrary, that through this and through the relationship to constitutional reform, he has shown that this country can overcome the most complex issues. And I also want to welcome this as well as the message that we forget about the Constitution the differences that were and turn to looking for a solution and dialogue, that means one openness and a willingness to accept arguments and to seek compromise. And these are, for sure, good tickets for other reforms, especially economic and here I think, apart from the well-placed things there are some things I would suggest, I don't think they're good enough or good enough, maybe at the stage it wasn't possible, the identified resources this country has, though. Energy is not mentioned anywhere in one quality way, it is one of the fundamental resources of this country and what the new Council of Ministers, in fact, should, if it is going to stick to this axiom that he has promoted, it is action and synergy, indeed, have been put. Another issue is that this country and the new Council of Ministers must show a new relationship when it comes to the largest economic operators in this country and those carrying development and investment. I didn't see it here, I think it's time for such an approach, and if we're going to build this kind of philosophy of entrepreneurship and development, then we're going to have to install it and build clusters and clusters over it, it's the only thing that's real and what countries that have passed this transition path recognize and do. I think that in this way I can complement this programme with the fact that this dimension must, however, be quantified by the deadlines and here I agree with the MPs who believe that one part of these activities that were planned here should, however, be put in the final time scale and I think there is space there and that the mandater will accept it as a constructive proposal. As for one important question, I have a suggestion, it's a question of going back. It's not enough to say that this process will end. That's what we all want. But we also know how many more families and individuals there are and what needs to be done to end this process. Quantify by means, by obligations of all levels of government, I think one minimum is on this very important issue. Secondly, when it comes to security, it is not enough to say what the Ministry of Security will do, we need to know that we have transferred these powers, that BiH has received and well that it has received them, because these are the instruments that one country can in one joint mosaic lead all the necessary processes, and we need to be aware of the weaknesses of that initial part, the need to monitor these services and complete transparency and prevent their abuse, and there is. Which is also an important feature for all democratic societies or at least those societies that want to follow that dimension. In addition to the suggestion for deadlines, resources, this part about return and security, I think that this part that is mentioned here as institutionalisation of coordination cannot be seen negatively, because I think it is better that there is institutional coordination until reforms are completed than improvisation, and improvisation has been too much. So that's how I realized it, and I believe that's how it's gonna be. And as for those things that are important for one country, and I think that today was finally the time for someone to say that they are willing to take over that 31 ardorship and check it out, the second that he is ready for action, the third that they will yearly seek results and fourth that they will pay special attention to the relationship with Parliament. I especially welcome that. If not him, then through a member of the Council of Ministers or a person who will have this mandate that what we are witnessing has the space by all of us to do better to absorb that part. I think maybe another dimension can be focused, BiH indeed if it does not realise these priorities on the Euro-Atlantic path will be in one very disabled position, we are now, and the suggestion that this part may be further strengthened by the deadlines, the priors and if we round this dimension along with these suggestions that the fruit of this debate has come from the position and motivation and opposition, I think this is the exposure that deserves support and it will have from these HDZ agents in 1990. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8605	Mr. Raguž. Miss Azra Hadžiahmetović, may Mr Rifet Dolić prepare himself for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8606	I thank you, distinguished members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. Listening to carefully the previous debates, it was the impression that according to this paper, namely the opening speech of the prime minister for the composition of the new Council of Ministers, he was treated as a work programme. I would like to point out in particular, which is what my colleague Špirić pointed out on several occasions in his speech, that this is about the presidency's intentions, which means that we should keep in mind today that this is about an opening, indicative speech, which does not in any way reduce the commitment of both the chairman and the future Council of Ministers to propose to this Parliament in the form of a work programme that would include both deadlines and detailed understanding of individual issues what it intends to do in the coming period. After all, I will also remind you that, right on page 21 of my final part of the speech, my colleague Špirić pointed out that today's presentation is a framework plan of action, and that following the gathering of teams that will form a new council of ministers, through joint work and co-operation, this programme, i.e. this plan, will be further constructed and implemented over the next four years. So let's not treat this as a work programme, because this would also help to amnesty the future Council of Ministers that it really proposes a work programme to this Parliament. I must mention that this paper, or speech by Mr Špirić, whom I have long known and as a colleague, is indeed like my colleague Špirić. Not to say that he's been a little over 45 minutes of university, that as an economist and not only economist but also a longtime parliamentarian has done one good, like this, and synthesis, and also analytically in the opening speech, the choice of priorities in his engagement, and sometimes by apostrophe something that perhaps because of an unfortunate language structure or perhaps for other reasons can cause someone to agree or disagree. I would like to mention at the outset that we have the Law on Gender Equality, so respected and respected colleagues and colleagues and colleagues, etc., and colleagues, colleagues Špirić. 32 What I have to say in particular, in a way, impressed me, and it was on several occasions at the very beginning, on page 3, and particularly apostrophe on page 21, in the final part, in a way, to say and as a colleague of fellow Špirić and as an economist, and in particular to mention as a member of the political option of the Party for BiH, which is a feeling of common interest, which is particularly apostropheeded at the beginning as an idea of leadership, that is, as something that we should consider our differences in BiH as wealth. Or that these differences should be to the extent, i.e. to the extent that they would be stimulating further development, BiH's step towards prosperity. Especially in the final part when he apostrophe that above all there is a state interest and that all his forces will focus on long paths to defeat the general state interest of all citizens who expect us to. Well, fellow Špirić, if at any rate, I assume you agree, if you ever jump out of this promise, I'll remind you of that. Since Špirić, in the final part, mentioned that the new Council of Ministers' meeting with joint work will, therefore, present in one team work a selection of priorities, i.e. a programme of work for this Parliament, I will indeed only, for the purpose of better understanding, correction and promotion of this document, which one might have written differently, etc. but not much to jump out of some basic directions, or framework, give a few suggestions, or perhaps ask some questions to which fellow Špirić today can and does not have to answer. Some have already been mentioned in the earlier discussion, perhaps in another context sometimes, but what has caused me, for example, some dilemma, page 3, institutional coordination of the state and entity that has already been mentioned. Then on page 5, that we are constitutionally and legally not bound by the documents prepared by the Directorate, is talking about police reform, and we are in some way causing a dilemma, or question with the mandater, why then the directorates or commissions, etc. which, among other things, are with full trust and political parties and the institutions of the state that formed them or carry out their task. Furthermore, on page 6 where it speaks of the adoption of constitutional solutions, I assume that counterpart Špirić was referring to the adoption of new constitutional solutions, because we constitutional solutions have been regulated by the Dayton Peace Agreement. Or, for example, on page 7, where it speaks of ensuring the implementation of the Agreement on the Excess of Assets and Regulation of State Property Status. I suggest it stands here, as I assume counterpart Špirić thought, an agreement on the succession of former SFRY's assets and regulation of state property status in BiH. Furthermore, it stands on page 11 when it talks about engagement in foreign affairs, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the pre-lated paragraph on page 11 which says it is realistic to expect that in the second part of the mandate of this Council of Ministers we will obtain the candidate status for full membership in the European Union. I want to remind you, we're in 2007 at the very beginning. If in 2007, in mid-2007, counterpart Špirić planned to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the second half of your mandate will be held somewhere in 2009. So I ask you what you'll do in the meantime. Because the country can get candidate status for a much shorter period after obtaining a positive..., after signing, or procedures related to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. 33 Or, say, when you talk about issues or open issues or possibly some problems with our neighbours, you have apostrophe of the context, the regional dimension, the context of countries from the former common state, so you specifically mentioned Slovenia, or Croatia, so I kind of miss Serbia-Montenegro here because I'm not sure that we don't have any open issues or unresolved problems, this, if the commitment is, therefore, with all the neighbours of the former Yugoslavia, to then open the question, or possibly some work programme, even if we realize that everything is okay, Macedonia or something else. And let's say page 13, this is something that really surprised me, Article 2, paragraph 2, where fellow Špirić is saying that it is known that Bosnia has completed the technical part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which will result in a commitment for the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, and then it stands out that, although there is no clear original, constitutional and legal jurisdiction. I would ask you to correct this because it turns out that the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury is working against the law. There are laws, legal frameworks that regulate the work of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and not to enter into the debate, the basis for this is also in the Constitution. And here I have again, to finish in the end, given, indeed just as a suggestion, not to look at the details of a particular commitment that I can, of course, cause always and debates of this kind or of that kind, but more in terms of the promotion of this document when, therefore, the Council of Ministers headed by Mr Špirić, I suppose, made a work programme that would, of course, be the subject of a more detailed debate in this House. Full support for the future prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8607	I thank Miss Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go, Mr. Dolić. Have Mr. Bahtić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8608	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I often know how to say that we Bosanac and Hercegovac today, unfortunately, live in an abnormal state and therefore we can offer a lot of facts. One of them is the fact that the BiH-level legislative and executive power is being established 100 days after the elections, and in a normal situation it would mark and analyse the first 100 days of work of the government of Mr Špirić. Who lost and who got the time will best show. Although the DNZ, and myself personally, have not had an impact on the events and behaviours of the past 100 days, today, however, I feel ashamed as an MP, because I cannot find an excuse for the disappointment we have afforded them in these 100 days of irresponsibility and inconclusiveness. I will be happy if this seven-member coalition, a shareholder society or a partner group, as they already see themselves in this, regains confidence in their work in the coming period and repairs the environment in which reforms should be implemented and key decisions for BiH's future. Although I do not believe too much in such political marriages, because they remain orphans regularly behind them, for today BiH is good that there has been such a broad two-thirds coalition that has qualified majority to implement all reforms and to take full responsibility for the possible failure on the road, of course, and to take over the tapes for the possible success that Mr Špirić and accepted in his exposé. It is good that the coalition that forms power ended with 7 parties because, frankly, after a meeting in Doboj, I feared that the honour of the opposition in this House would have to defend, conditionally speaking, small parties. I hope that the ship's abandonment strategy before the elections is read and that we will not again witness a tragic pre-election attack in opposition. As strong as the parliamentary majority is for political stability, so much for democracy and progress is an important and strong opposition as a corrective and control mechanism for the functioning of the government. We have, however, a few opposition but I hope that the parties in power, the extracting coalition will not sleep peacefully, thinking, of course, of work and work and political activities. The DNZ is, of course, free to say, fortunately in this House of Opposition and you will be convinced that we will honor our function, provided that the media in this House are not the parliamentary majority. I am aware of the work and responsibilities ahead of this home and at this important moment for BiH and its citizens. Time, unfortunately, is not our ally in implementing reforms, in meeting the conditions for BiH's accession to the European Union and NATO and will not be much time for criticism or for affairs. The European path for BiH and its citizens has no alternative, and the DNZ and I, as MP of this House, will be able to identify all that is for the purpose of this trip, so that the European path to BiH is as short and passing as possible. The DNZ will today refrain from supporting the proposed candidate for the council of ministers' chairman. Restraining from support is not the result of an opinion on the candidate's personal and qualification for the post; it is a denial of support for the political concept of the parliamentary majority, whose Mr Špirić is a candidate. To be honest, exposés and performance speeches don't choose me to support or support anyone, because we're too many times in this country, and even in this House, witnesses to speak well, and nakaradically or otherwise work. For that, of course, I will be determined by actions and concrete moves. So the chairman of the Council of Ministers will have the support of the DNZ and me as MPs for what is of strategic interest to BiH and its citizens and vice versa. Given the broad parliamentary majority, I believe that Mr Špirić will today be appointed and I congratulate him on behalf of the DNZ and on my behalf and I want a lot of success in future work.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8609	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8610	Dear colleagues, I support this exposé and this document of the future prime minister, Špirić. I think this document should only be implemented. We have a broad parliamentary majority here and surely these are good foundations for BiH to finally take the European path and become a normal state. Stopping corruption, I would add more crime and corruption to this place because it is the fundamental evil of this country. Corruption and crime have entered all the pores of life, me, privatisation is on the entity level, I don't see anything here about privatisation. I think it would be a good review of privatisation, for us hundreds of millions of marks have gone from the state, they've bought some new-compromised tycoons behind which certain political powers stand. Let's just start the brewery from Bihac, Sarajevo, 100 million marks at least, and they've gone for nothing. I know a man came to Bihac, offered 25 million marks for a brewery. This must be done, the audit and that money must come into funds in the state, and the state has a lot of where to spend that money. Bringing constitutional solutions, I support, means constitutional reforms that will establish a functional and modern BiH according to European standards, quite OK. We're here to negotiate, the compromise is, of course, possible. I don't see anything here about constitutionality, consistent implementation of the constitution of the people, in all, in the entire BiH area, is being implemented somewhere, not implemented. I live in Krajina, I know it's not being spent in the neighborhood just as much as we do in the Federation. So we have to be consistent here, too. Regulation of the BiH border issue, exit to the open sea, perfectly normal. As an economist, I will also be particularly active in the realisation of economic reforms and strengthening of the state, state institutions, the adoption of the necessary laws for the security of the business environment that will attract foreign investments to finally start this economy, public works, employment and a better life for all citizens. But that works for us, not just declaratively. It says here that half our population is unemployed, it's a burning problem and citizens are, believe me, so give us a mandate, we're here to do it the most. Mr. Špirić, who is very happy with me, says teamwork, general state interest. How we can only succeed, it should be kept. I think it'll be very useful. Encourage the development of agriculture and tourism, tourism, I think more water potentials, energy, mentioned colleagues Raguž, resources, we know, I down, I don't, this is still the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina's rich state, we have resources, we have a small population, we can live. All we have to do is organize and pass these necessary laws and a little more style. Special attention to young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Believe me, I'm one of the ones who always gives young people a chance and I'll always give it. Young people are our future and there is a major resource and a country that does not have its youth has no future either. And I still support that, Prime Minister. I hope you'll be chosen. Construction of the Corridor Vc highway. Here, counterpart 36 Bešlagić mentioned Tuzla, I mention Bihac and Krajina. Looks like Krajina only when it's something to give for the state, there's number one. And Bihac must be some connection on the highway, gentlemen dear, plus the railroad. The Krajina and Bihac are now a appendix. We all know the geographical position of Krajina and Bihac that these are the gates of Europe. Before the war, we could have done business on Sarajevo's business train, Bosnia Express, come in, finish the job and come back. It's gone today. Why isn't that railroad working? About that, by that, when they come to the work sessions there will be quite a bit of what to say. As far as the opposition is concerned, there's something I have to say. I was looking for a replica. I see mourning here, it looks like we'll listen to these four years. I understand that. Some have already been scratched to power, however, it is known that the majority should come, and I must say, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžiju, here you see...I do not support the SNSD candidate on the committee there for the prime minister, the prime minister. The entire public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, citizens saw Dr. Lagumdžija beats "maltene" Dodik, beautiful Mića, beautiful Mića. He called him ten, twenty times a day. I wonder if now Lagumdžija is in this majority, what his discussion would be. That's where I end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8611	Replica, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8612	Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija, you've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8613	...I expected from you that unlike your colleague, whom this was the first time he came to Parliament this morning when he chaired, that you would draw attention to this new colleague, however, that there was no need for him to behave like this. This isn't the manner in which I've been here and this is how I'm called. You know he was a bully this morning, too, when he had a bully in your place, so he wouldn't even let us talk. And these are the manners, otherwise, which, I would ask you not to allow anymore, because if you allow it at first, then we will answer even worse.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8614	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija, I think. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić. It's about the replicas people want to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8615	Replic, replica. Apparently Mr. Lagumdžija doesn't understand democracy. This is normal thinking, we don't have to think the same thing. There are no thugs here, no one like you. That's your thing, not mine. I understand perfectly. You say so yourself, 37 can't make me angry with you, but obviously it bothers you. I'll always answer here, but I'll never say anything first. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8616	Mr. Križanović. Here you go, Mr. Ajanović. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8617	Well, I won't be long. Apparently Mr. Lagumdžija thinks I'm some sort of, uh, prenup that came to Parliament. I want to remind him that this is my choice of 12th time in parliament from Yugoslavia, BiH and the FBiH. Therefore, the way Parliament behaves and the Presidency of parlament, I have long studied it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8618	Here you are, I'm asking you all for a little patience. Of course, Mr. Denise and you'll get right to the line, but let me just say a few sentences, I'm asking you a little patience, tolerance for each other to do a job. We have 10 other debaters reported. Here you go, sir. I don't see what the problem is, Mr. Lagumdžija. I'm trained. Here you go, Mr. Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8619	Dear Chairman, I have answered the discussion but here I must say a few words before the discussion and invite my colleagues to Parliament to focus on what is the agenda point. As far as we all know, here on the agenda is not one individual, and at least Zlatko Lagumdžija. I would especially suggest that colleagues from the already educated ruling coalition deal with what they have agreed to deal with and address the issues of this country. There's no problem with any SDP man, we know what this country is, and I suggest we discuss it, that we don't waste time on these things that come out a little bit of courtesy.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8620	Thank you very much. Jozo Križanović reported the discussion. Just one second, let's make a little inventory. So behind Joza Križanović, behind Mr. Joza Križanović, we have Mr. Živković Milorad, Sefer Halilović, Ekrem Ajanović. Denis said he checked in, and I don't see it here. So you also reported, therefore, Denis Bećirević, Mr Dokić. Did anyone else have any intention of signing up and missing someone? Thank you. So this is how we conclude the reported debaters. Jozo Križanović, Živković Milorad, Sefer Halilović, Ekrem Ajanović, Denis Bećirević and Mr Branko Dokić. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 38 Honored members of the Bureau, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, This is today a less formal act, and our reference to the presentation of the Council of Ministers' mandates, they cannot have an effect in the sense that some of this can be changed, repaired,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8622	Don't leave the O.R., it looks like it's fatigue, that we have respect for our speaking colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8623	I don't mind. As a document that could be, as the backbone of the BiH government's future work. I agree that it's hard to make that document like it's some kind of work plan. I agree it's not a work plan. If so, then it could have been a shorter bar for 10-11 pages, how much the text relates to the work of the Council of Ministers' ministries, which essentially, when it is a little bit more edified, represents one interpretation of the legal definition of the area of work of individual ministries. However, I would like to welcome the mandater's readiness for overall co-operation and with BiH institutions, with associations in BiH, teamwork, responsibility, endurance, tenacity, etc., I highly appreciate it in this presentation. And I appreciate, too, that the programme objectives are well numbered, but there remains one, too, finding that they are only well marked and well numbered. Shapes of formulations: planned, will work on changes, will be pawned, something is expected, etc., etc. So, regardless of these objections and remarks, this exposure could have had some title except for the exposure. Is it the skeleton of future government work, etc. I can only say that I am satisfied with this coverage of the general programme objectives and that we will really monitor their realization with attention. Thank you very much. And of course... I congratulate him on his choice and wish him successful work, especially in the realisation of these outlined goals.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8624	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. It's Živković Milorad. Sefer Halilović, also later remembered Šefik Džaferović, is applying for the discussion. I'm still asking people, if they're going to discuss it, to sign up so we don't keep, so we can plan the time. Thank you. I'm asking you not to sign up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8625	Dear Chairman, members of the Presidency, colleagues, fellow Members of Parliament, your Excellency, respected media representatives, allow me to thank, on my behalf, for the opportunity and honor to be elected to the College. Let me say a few sentences on behalf of the SNSD, since later people from my club won't report unless it's necessary. SNSD, with Professor Nikola Špirić's candidacy as prime minister's chairman, has given support. We gave support because we firmly believe that in the next four years Professor Špirić will be able to achieve the goals he has set in his presentation. The fact that this exposure lasted over 60 minutes and that there is much here is a number of reasons more to believe that in the next 4 years in BiH there will be a better life for all BiH citizens. Of course, there is little to add to this presentation, there is also little to be rejected here, I would suggest that the future chairman of the Council of Ministers stress the need and desire to work more and better with NGOs, to have more hearing with the NGO and to the MPs in this House, especially in the domain of parliamentary issues, but also for initiatives and other proposals coming from this House have more hearing. On the other hand, I see no reason to take the burden of constitutional change on the burden of the Council of Ministers. Fortunately, this is not the Council of Ministers' highest obligation, it is the highest obligation of this Parliament and the BiH Presidency, and I see no reason why you are additionally burdening your work with a proposal for constitutional change. Of course, here I'd like to say, given that there have been various questions coming today as SNSD enters power, for what reasons. I think it is enough to say a few sentences, that in the post-election period without the SNSD, there was no power in BiH, that for us the crisis, or the situation that could have gone into crisis, in the post-election period was not an option and that the commitment of the SNSD was either to find a compromise, or to stand firmly behind our proposal for the Council of Ministers chairman, taking responsibility and obligation for that Council of Ministers. I firmly believe here, and I know that there will be no situation in the future to hide behind the Council of Ministers, that there is a situation where we call on the chairman or members of the Council of Ministers to come out without them doing so. I believe that in the coming period this Council of Ministers will show that it can be better lived in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8626	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mr. Halilović, please. Get Ekrem Ajanović ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8627	Mr. Chairman, let me congratulate you and your deputies once again on the election and express my satisfaction that, finally, after 100 days, this session of Parliament will begin to form power. A lot of what I was going to say, said these predecessors of mine, and I just want to, of course, say, with most of it, I'd like to express my consent, but I'd like, for the sake of importance, to look back at two or three points, and I think I'll be very brief. I didn't like it, and I don't agree, I hope that Mr Špirić, the prime minister in the coming period, or that it will be more precise at least, I didn't like a lot of pausal formulations, and that's my disagreement with questions about police reform and reform of the constitution because I think that these two issues are now, probably in this year, going to be a key 40 questions. What I expected, given that the term of office is a professor, uh, a doctor of economic science and a professor at the Faculty of Economics, I expected that it would be a little clearer and a little clearer, and hopefully, in some future period, that it would do this, that it would say a little more precisely how and how to balance the balance, because I think a huge reserve of new jobs in balancing the balance sheet, i.e., the imbalance of trade that we have with the countries with which we trade. And this country, slowly but surely, is turning into a colony and I think this government, that is, this Council of Ministers, in the coming period, should have that thing in mind. Of course, the protection of domestic production is also part of this, and the particular issue that we should be warning about is protection, this, the fight against crime and corruption, or more specifically, the fight against the gray economy, or the gray market. I must say that I expected that after the move of the previous Council of Ministers chairman, who is on some occasion, to say that you are black marketing in BiH annually swallows about 6 billion marks. The assessment of economic experts, independent economic experts, is that the figure moves between 6 billion and 8 billion marks. To address the issue of closing the border and resolving over 400 wild crossings to 20 of those on which it works, it is one of the key reserves for the overall fight against, against, the contribution to the fight against strategy, the fight against poverty. And as part of that, there's a lot more, a lot more to do. I also expected the exposure to stronger and more precise emphasis on what development programs are. It is not that everything revolves around the Corridor Vc highway because I think BiH has huge or at least good economic resources, besides energy, which is spoken of, water, tourism, agriculture and others, I expected, however, given that it is a doctor of economic science, to say more specifically these issues when it comes to development. When it comes to foreign policy, I must say that Mr. Bešlagić has taken this discussion from me. There is an association called "Ugor" that brings together about 60,000 people who have lost their jobs in Croatia at the time of the war in Croatia only because they are Bosanac and I think it would be correct for this Council of Ministers and this Parliament to take up, in addition to the other issues he said, just to complement this issue. I would also like to hear that in the exposé of our chairmanial Council of Ministers, foreign policy is based on one principle which, I think, is universal, which is the principle of equality with neighbouring countries and all other states with which we maintain diplomatic relations and the particular principle of non-interference in internal affairs. As far as neighbouring countries and other countries are concerned about our internal affairs, I don't think I have to talk about it. That would be my suggestion and my observation when it comes to exposé. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8628	Thank you very much, Mr. Halilović. Here you go, Mr. Ajanović. Let Denis Bećirević prepare himself and we still have Šefik Džaferović. Thank you very much. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8629	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8630	I'm sorry, I skipped Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8631	First, I am pleased here that today many debaters have said that they will fight for state interests because, in fact, we are the state parliament, so normally from that fact we should begin. So our priority is state-of-the-art interests. As far as this exposé is concerned, I can say as a whole that it is quite well balanced, although I must say immediately that in some things here we have different opinions which may be normal at first, and the prime minister stressed that certain arrangements, conversations, etc. are coming, which I have no doubt that we will not be able to coordinate certain things. Here I would express my one opinion, which is that if an institution, a state institution, is now talking about state institutions, forms a commission of experts, then normally that committee that makes certain views or proposals, it must be the backbone of further negotiations and talks, and certainly my opinion is that in Parliament what is rejected, that it can no longer be the subject of such a form and the initial phase of the talks. And there I may not agree with Mr Špirić, although he pointed out in his exposé that it was his personal opinion, and he did not say that it would be the government's opinion, which is certainly one another, uh, element. It is certainly my opinion, as an individual, in the future, that we do not speak on behalf of the party or the club of MPs, but on our own behalf. I'm never going to give anyone, uh, the support exchange, with certain goals, there's some reasonableness that certain things in the follow-up procedure can also be coordinated and we can talk. Here I'd just like to point out two things that I think might need to be potentiated. Here in the exposé he said about providing for the implementation of the Agreement on Succession and State Property, and my opinion is that this state property should be demonstrated that it is state property, so it must be registered as state property, certainly in agreement that the property should be either able or should be transferred to other units that exist, meaning entities, to Brcko District, etc. And I think it should, in fact, be my opinion, that we should stress that construction of the highway must remain a state interest. So, BiH's interest is being led as a BiH project. Thank you very much. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8632	Thank you, Mr. Ajanović. Mr. Denis Bećirević, with apologies, of course, to Mr. Dokić, whom I ask to prepare now, and we still have Šefik Džaferović left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8633	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, esteemed guests and the media, we have all had the opportunity to listen carefully to the presentation of the prime minister, future Prime Minister Nikola Špirić, where he tried to expose, above all, the future purpose and mission of the Council of Ministers. When it comes to us from the SDP, we will try to act, first of all, in line with the principle of supporting all the legal acts that are on the welfare of citizens and peoples in this country, but also to reason on those gaps and weaknesses that arise, and we will not give up on this principle. It is clear that the objectives must be achieved from what the Council of Ministers does. Therefore, I would suggest to the Prime Minister, Mr Špirić, that this text, perhaps, too, should be done in a way that the objectives set, to be more operational and to be defined and understood so that specific short-term tasks can be made available to them, and that they allow all the resources and efforts in this country to be concentrated for their implementation. If the goals are only good intentions, and in this exposé, a lot of them seem to be just good intentions, then eventually they will remain worthless. In order for this Council of Ministers to function successfully, it is necessary to build a real team, and something Mr Špirić spoke about and joined all individual efforts in one joint effort. Each ministry should bring in its own way, as well as all ministries together towards a common goal. All their efforts must go in the same direction and fit in. Now, indeed, the biggest optimists in this country don't believe that, for example, let's take, ministers or representatives from, say, the BiH and SNSD parties that they will really go in the same direction and that their activities will fit and they will be complementary. Few people in this country really believe that. We've heard what the Council of Ministers' programming goals are. Here I will look back on this part that says, that is, about the adoption of new constitutional solutions. Now is the time, literally, whether it stands in this exposé to leave these divisions behind and quote this, especially – let us not forget responsibility to the citizens. It is very important, indeed, that we, at this first session of the BiH Parliament of the House of Representatives, do not forget the word "responsibility". It is good that this stands in this opening statement and this newly formed ruling coalition must indeed convince people in the coming weeks and months that it is responsible. And to convince them that they are responsible and serious in what is being said today, they must first and foremost realize what they said before these elections. Some have promised the European Constitution of BiH and as far as we are concerned, let the European Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina be given, we only call on them to say within what time it will be realised and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is indeed giving the European Constitution. The only thing that is unacceptable for us from the SDP in this story is the fact that, in the future, you just keep talking about the European Constitution, and that this 43 country is in a position to be in what it is and to continue to tell people one thing before the elections, and quite, well, that is to say, the diametrically different behavior after the election. When it comes to this section relating to the confiscation of criminal property acquired, the Social Democratic Party as the Proposer of the Law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property will support it. But don't be angry if, as the largest opposition party in this Parliament and in this country, we show a significant dose of skepticism in the ability to adopt such a thing by this ruling coalition, since, in our opinion, this ruling coalition is an entirely unnatural and mathematical coalition that may soon agree on the distribution of individual seats in Parliament and the Council of Ministers, but we will see what it will look like when serious issues come to the agenda, such as police reform, restructuring of the BiH Constitution, etc. And let's not go any further, I'll stick to one score Mr. Špirić gave at the end of his report. The future government must, I quote Mr Špirić "handling a single principle, it is complete and sincere solidarity and common interest". I think that anyone in this country, who has any follow-up to the political movements and developments in this country, can precisely harden the following; precisely what is lacking to those who today and officially formed this ruling coalition, they are just missing those two principles. What everyone sees at the beginning is that there is no honesty, no solidarity, and no common interest. I would like to make a mistake, but I am afraid that the only interest, the common interest, was what we see today, that this Parliament is being formed, that it is being chosen, that the Council of Ministers is being formed, and we will see, I repeat, when the main issues for this country come, how this will happen, whether it will be honesty, whether there will be common interest. As far as we are concerned in the SDP, we will try to be constructive, but we will also try not to forget everything that has been promised by those who have taken power in this country today. I wish we were wrong in a lot of things, but here we are, weeks and months to come will show whether they're right about how it's going to work, as they say on the principles of honesty and common interest, or maybe we'll have some other scenario. I wouldn't judge today whether we're right about the SDP or the others. Let's have time to assess, and here we have weeks and months ahead of us to see which direction BiH is headed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8634	Thank you, Mr. Bećirević. Mr. Dokić, go ahead and get Mr. Džaferović ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8635	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I am at the beginning to take advantage of this opportunity to congratulate you and the other two members of the College on the choice and to wish that, uh, 44 ships lead successfully and not to allow themselves at any time to fall, especially on things that are not of general and common interest. As chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić proposed a good concept, a good programme around which the assembly majority should find common interest for all. And with today's vote for him as a candidate, as well as for the programme, they take the obligation to take on around this programme, which is broad enough, to express the common interest of all in BiH to gather together. Of course, I wish there were more precise and concrete deadlines here, which my colleagues had talked about before, but Mr Špirić is a sufficiently experienced politician and probably, thinking about it, he did not allow himself to be trapped. You know very well how specificity is carried by every congregation majority in the BiH Parliament and these present and previous ones, and here, in advance, making a commitment to some deadlines, would be very, very risky. I wish counterpart Špirić explicitly wrote that the Office of the High Representative would grow into the EU Office in June this year, as foreseen. But it's not just up to him. Believe me, it's more up to us sitting here and giving him support. He's going to make an effort to make that happen. I hope that parliamentarians will first of all launch an initiative of strengthening, the full dignity of every elected official in BiH, that we respect ourselves first and take the responsibilities that we have discussed that we will take over when we were in the pre-election campaigns and take over, here, these commitments that are quite broadly laid out in the concept of Nikola Špirić. Of course, at this point, I am pleased that as one of the priorities entered this program, the highway to Corridor Vc. I wish there were some in the program itself, here are more precise messages in this regard. But here's what I'm going to suggest, and I believe Mr. Špirić will accept it and put it into the government's program. In fact, the ministry has prepared a law on the roads to BiH where we have predicted that this law defines the separation for roads within which and for highways and that this is significantly more than it is now, noting that we are the last in Europe in this respect. If that doesn't happen, I'm afraid we'll just stay on the concept of documentation. The same thing that we have here, and what the new Council of Ministers will get on the agenda, I hope, in Parliament. The development of a multimodal transport strategy in BiH is under way, meaning all transport modes of international consulting organisations, which are scheduled to go to Parliament, go through Parliament and be bound by this future Council of Ministers now, but also by the following, and will also include issues both Bihaća and Tuzla and Trebinja, Mostar, etc., not only the highway to Corridor Vc. In any case, in the end, here, and welcoming one, a brave concept in these circumstances, the circumstances of the allocated powers and responsibilities in which the future chairman and his cabinet are practically taking responsibility for the developments in BiH and in an area where they are not directly competent, I can say that the Party of 45 democratic progress will vote for a candidate for the chairman and I am convinced that the Ministers of the Party of Democratic Progress in his cabinet will make a full contribution to this and what is written here, but also significantly more than that is realized in the next 4 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8636	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. We still have Mr. Džaferović. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8637	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate you on your choice, on these very important activities. You are people who will lead our home in the next four years and I wish you a lot of success, happiness and patience in your work because it will indeed take patience because Parliament is in the nature of things like this. I didn't sign up for the discussion later. I signed up, here, in a regular procedure, and I want, here, to know this. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished members of the BiH Presidency, respected ministers, members of the state administration, presidents of the international community, I welcome you all and want to say a few sentences when it comes to this framework speech or the exposé of Mr Nikola Špirić, the future chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. We are today in the fourth month after the elections, and that we do not have a constitutional state authority that is legitimate to the past elections, which indicates the need to do this thing as soon as possible and if you ask me what I appreciate most in Mr Špirić's speech, that is the part that speaks of BiH no longer having time to wait and that it is necessary to step forward, once this parliament has been established and elected by the Council of Ministers, to move forward with reform. In addition to being late in the implementation of the election results, we have an apparent stalemate when it comes to the European and Euro-Atlantic security path of BiH, about half last year or something earlier, and this should come, and if you ask me how the previous mandate should be ended, then it is certainly in addition to a number of reforms adopted that should include the start of the process of amending the BiH Constitution, police reform and the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty with the EU. And certainly it will be things that we will have to work quickly to get to, in my court, lost time for BiH. If you ask me if I agree with all the things that are mentioned and the formulations in Mr Špirić's exposé, my answer is, of course, that I disagree with everything that my political party has as its own political position and that I personally have as my own political position, and that is contrary to what has been expressed in the exhibition as the position of Nikola Špirić, the future chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, will be the positions my party has, when my behaviour here in Parliament is due. So, of course, I disagree with the formulation that speaks of the future role of OHR in BiH, because our position is quite clear on this issue, what must be done all together to make 46 OHR transformed and to abolish the Bosnian powers. Of course, when it comes to the role of the State Police Reform Directorate, we also have the opposite views. The issue of institutionalising this co-operation of various levels of government in BiH, as well as on a number of other issues, has several more here. Here's no one mentioned a formulation that says the reform of the public broadcasting system should be carried out in such a way as to be acceptable to all constituent peoples, and that's where it stops, so others in BiH are not listed. Citizens, etc. There are still, therefore, some of the remarks that I could, of course, speak to this occasion and I want to say that our conduct in Parliament will be determined by the views of our political party, and these views are already known. However, it would be unfair on this occasion, if we didn't say the following; this is the first time since the Dayton Peace Agreement, after the government is implemented after the elections, and if we had, here is one, even if this framework document, political parties' agreement, and here is the exposé that comes from political parties' agreement. Many things, of course, are well written in this exposé. For me, of course, BiH is acceptable and should certainly go its own European path, and I say, Euro-Atlantic security. So now the question is, how do I and my political party, the question here is whether, is, we support the election of the Council of Ministers chairman, and we disagree on some of the things that are mentioned here. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the issue of coalitions, and in particular the issue of partnership relations in BiH, has been determined primarily by the constitutional structure of our country and by the state of the election result. I wish that in BiH we could make a programme the way I want it to be and achieve agreement about it and do it that way, but we have what we have and I repeat the issue of the parliamentary majority in BiH is the issue, above all, of the election results and the constitutional constitution of BiH. That is why I will remind only some here, that we who today will support Mr Špirić in 2000 and 2003 voted against Nikola Špirić, at least my political party, for the election in the House of Representatives, the College of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and some of those who will be against it today voted for Mr Špirić in 2000 and in 2003. And this is just an example that I, who wanted to illustrate to you and give you an answer to this very important question, cannot simply go beyond this question. I needed to answer that question and say something about it. In BiH, there is, therefore, this programme and we need to move forward strongly on those things that we agree on in BiH, of course, and when I say we agree in BiH, it is mandatory to include a word called the European Standard. We need to implement European standards in BiH and we cannot talk about compromises when it comes to European standards, because it is not possible to reach compromises around European standards, European standards must be applied and implemented in BiH. I will today support Mr. Nikola Špirić for the Council of Ministers Chairman, I expect him and his cabinet to create a work programme and each of my future votes will depend on whether my views, the views of my political party, are satisfied with what is being taken as a move by the Council of Ministers. I Tražić ask the Council of Ministers to report on their work every 47 years and to plead here in this House on this report. Here, I have had the need to say so much, and in the end, here, I am taking the opportunity to thank the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić and his cabinet for not forgetting that these are people who, with the help of the International Community, should therefore, honestly and openly say, have made strong steps when it comes to strengthening the state of BiH and should never be forgotten. I want this Council of Ministers to make even stronger steps to make our country and all its peoples and citizens better. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8638	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović, in this way we have exhausted the registered list of debaters. There were questions, suggestions, etc. Mr Špirić expressed his desire to answer some questions and to take a brief look. Here you go, Mr. Špirić. So before the plea, of course, yes, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8639	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, your Excellency, distinguished guests, respected journalists. When I decided to accept the post of Prime Minister's Chairman, I was also aware that I had a much more comfortable role in being an MP and criticising those who would be. But living in BiH, which has so many problems, and not accepting the challenge of working to make her better. What does that mean? If I had the right to move differently, time would show. I am grateful to everyone and now I am happy, I know that the time I wrote this report was not agreeable to do the work for the Nobel Prize, and I know that this is not possible in BiH, but believe me, from 3rd to 11, yes, and the holidays that I was supposed to spend as well as you used to think about what would be good for BiH. Thank you all for remembering the things that are missing from this program for a reason. Some of them I didn't think of, some of them I deliberately left out so that you could make them more potent today. Thank you, everyone who is ready to build an atmosphere to make this country feel better, you who are willing to build an atmosphere to create the will of people living in BiH if it is possible to live better in this country. Criticisms and what should not be criticised are heating up the sense of the imperceptibility of those for whom some in this House today stand out. That's why I invited everyone to mobility.I'll take action to make everyone feel better. I know there will be problems in the realisation of such a programme that you have criticised, but I will not spare energy for the representatives of the parliamentary majority to sit around day and night to find a solution that suits everyone in this country and with the opposition. I'm grateful for all the things that have been said and when it comes to criticizing this exposure. I'm sorry some dare to analyze how anyone feels. I guess they don't allude to health. I hope that it will help us all to welcome a healthy mandate and offer solutions, not to call on the disease for help. That's not good thinking. I don't mind, but I'm saddened that it comes from those who should send a message that we're all alive and healthy for the next four years and we're fighting here with the idea of a prob... I'm on that road ready. 48 I am grateful to Professor Azra, all those who spoke, Novaković, colleagues Bešlagić. It's true that these things were accidentally released from the program. I'm sorry that I used the collection directory in the title, maybe grammatical or maybe it's not in this sense that Azra warned me about, I'm ready to correct, of course. And when it comes to deadlines, I just want to say briefly that they are tied up, they are woven into a European partnership, they are prescribed. I wish it was us who dictated those deadlines. I don't think so. And it will be fortunate for this country to become full members, 2009 is the deadline for implementation and, therefore, the deadline for implementation and for confirming the agreement is 3 years. So, if we close the Stabilisation and Association Treaty in the middle of this year, it'll take three years to ratify. So I ask you all together, therefore, all positive criticism and all that is well-meaning and what is not, direct me and let me be the sponge of these thoughts, the parliamentary good and the bad, only that after four years we realize that this is a happier country. I'm ready for that job, ready for compromise. I know I no longer have the role I have played in this House to criticise and to be criticised, but I beg you, therefore, with criticism that we offer solutions. So, here, there's no need to answer to everything, with most of what's missing in this program I agree, the Council of Ministers will have their operational plans, you'll have a chance to influence it. The parties that the ministers will give, I think they should offer the best operational programmes possible. I'm ready, therefore, for one team effort and it won't all depend on what Nikola Špirić thinks, but believe me, I won't let things get out of hand without the invoice being just Nikola Špirić. Thank you again. I remain, therefore, available day and night to everyone who thinks they can help BiH with their suggestions, not to be able to help write ideal exposés. I knew he wasn't, but I'm grateful after these discussions, I think this is a good program, that for the first time in front of this House someone with such a serious intention and a sincere desire came about, 10 years after Dejton. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-01-11-0.u8640	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. This is how we practically brought to an end the procedure provided for in Article 142, the procedure for approving the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It is foreseen to vote in accordance with Article 82, item 3, therefore, electronically and in a way that can be seen which MP votes. I hope this first case of voting will succeed, a more serious vote. So on my mark, so when I say vote now, press the button you want. Of course, you have three types of buttons, you've seen it. So vote now. I didn't hear. Of course, as usual. Who paid the rent, who didn't. So, the results of the vote. 29 for, against 6, abstentions 3. We also have the necessary entity majority. Any questions, any objections to the vote? 49 If there is no, then, I find that the BiH House of Representatives has confirmed the decision to appoint Nikola Špirić as the mandate of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank all those who have contributed to the work of this second session and this is how I conclude the session. [[APLAuz]] I ask the MPs to take over the parliamentary IDs and to remind them of what I said by Tuesday to deliver the presidents of the clubs. We'll have consultations on the commissions on Wednesday. Thank you very much. Sit down and finish work at 16, 35 o'clock.
