ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10730	Gentlemen, honourable MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 9th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I say hello again. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests were invited to the meeting, chairing members of the BiH presidency, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, I see that there are representatives of international organisations and for the sake of reviewing their reports, representatives of the BiH Presidency, in particular the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, have been invited. I agree that the session is attended by 36 MPs, 25 from the Federation of BiH, 11 from Republika Srpska. The absence from the session was justified by MP Adem Huskić and I no longer have notices of leave. I hope the others are justifiably absent. So, with the invitation, along with the materials, you received a call for this session, or a draft agenda. In the meantime, as usual, there have been some changes that I'm going to introduce you to. So, yesterday at the Expansive College, we determined it. So points 8 and 10 of the agenda have been removed and these are the draft laws on amendments to the Law on the Citizenship of BiH, the Proposer, MPs, Remzija Kadrić. Our proposal to the committee in charge, and, as I say, the consent of the motion for a bill amending the law on value added tax, MEPs, Jerka Ivanković Lijanović, who also self-initiatively withdrew the law. The agenda under item 3 included the request of MP Azra Hadžiahmetović to discuss the draft law amending the Act on the temporary ban on the availability of state property in BiH under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 127. The purified agenda, therefore, as I read it, you got on the benches, noting that he agreed to the session of the College in an extended composition that was held yesterday. So, I'm opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Here you go. Miss Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10731	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, the SNSD MPs' club is asking that a point marked under f) The adoption of the basic contract between BiH and the svet stolica and the addendum protocol be removed from the daily list. The agreement was discussed at the Foreign Affairs Commission and my question as a member of the commission as well as with the 2rd Treaty with the Serbian Orthodox Church and with other religious communities in BiH, it was said that the remaining contracts were being prepared. But that was Monday. According to some of the information I have received today, the Treaty with the Serbian Orthodox Church, that is, the Agreement between BiH and that church has been prepared by the Council of Ministers and the Resord Ministry but was left in a drawer, for which reasons it is not known, to wait. So, I believe, that is, the SNSD Parliament Club believes that agreements with all and one religious community in BiH should be adopted together and therefore we propose that this point, the adoption of this item of the agenda, should be extended until all agreements are prepared to go together in the package. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10732	Thank you. So we have a proposal for Miss Marković. It's about the point of the 16th purified agenda. So the proposal is to remove point 16f from the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10733	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, dear fellow Members, I heard from my colleague just now a very serious accusation, which is that the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers is holding in the drawer a contract that passed the procedure in the Council of Ministers and does not deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly. I think if this is a method of working certain ministries, then we have a serious problem. And for this reason, first of all, I would like to join the proposal not to decide today on the ratification of this agreement and secondly, ask the Ministry for information on whether what the distinguished colleague said today is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10734	I'm asking you to stick to the debate on the agenda, and all these initiatives and demands, there are other procedures. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10735	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome all present ladies and gentlemen representatives, ministers and everyone else at the session. Regarding this initiative, i.e. the SNSD Club's proposal to take point 16. under f) The basic contract between BiH and the Holy See and the Additional Protocol on the Basic Treaty is removed from the agenda, we had yesterday at the Extended College an argumented debate and we said that the conditions for this item to be found on the agenda and not only to meet the conditions, but for a long time the contractual relations on the most important issues with very important world entities and should not be tied to any other contract because it is necessary in the same way to access any contract that the Council of Ministers of BiH prepares, and this Treaty relating to Position 3 of the Orthodox Church, and I think that nothing is questionable. But conditions and delays really send me a bad message about Parliament's work and the procedures that we have and I think, therefore, that there is no serious reason to take this off the agenda today. And when this comes to the agenda, other contracts, the same seriousness and responsibility we will approach and, uh, discuss and decide as much as this contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10736	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Here you go. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10737	Well, here's what I need to do to correct my colleague Marković. This is not an understanding with the religious community; it is a bilateral agreement that BiH has concluded with the svet stolica with which we have diplomatic relations. So it's not about an agreement with religious communities. If this can be related, let's say, and possibly with a future agreement concerning the assets of another religious community, then it will probably be some bilateral agreement that BiH will conclude with another state. So it's not an agreement with a religious community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10738	Thank you very much. Here you go. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10739	Ma, I would essentially like to support what my colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović said. So this is about an agreement between the two states, but I also fully agree that we must have a clear responsibility and a sense of equal attitude of the state towards all religious communities in BiH. And I therefore believe that there are no obstacles to this agreement today. So there is a specific relationship here with other religious communities, and when it comes to the Vatican, so this is about an interstate agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10740	Thank you very much. Here comes Mr. Živković, just two sentences, Mr. Živković. So, I am obliged, in the enlarged college, this issue which Miss Marković raised was somewhat problematic. I called the Council of Ministers to get the information. The agreement is at some stage of the procedure, not yet passed by the Council of Ministers. It's at the level of the ministry, and I've been given the firm assurance that it's going to speed up, that process, and that we're going to have that agreement here very soon. So I'm obliged to give you this information. Here you go, Mr. Živković. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10741	The Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen, everything in BiH is specific and sensitive. So sensitive are agreements with the state or with the religious community. In this case with the svet stolica, with the Serbian Orthodox Church, or the Islamic Community. The fact is that we received information that the agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church, as did the Holy See Agreement, had some objections from the OHR and that, afterwards, they were included in the Agreement and the Serbian Orthodox Church gave the answer that the agreement was acceptable to it. It happened a month and a half ago. The question arises whether it took a month and a half for the agreement approved, signed and agreed to wait for the Council of Ministers meeting and to be approved here in Parliament, ratified at the same time as the Agreement with the Holy Table. So no one has anything against any agreement, it's just a question of why it's been waiting a month and a half for that agreement to pass the same ratification method as the other agreements. I'm inclined to, if it's very close to an agreement with the Islamic community, come to an agreement. And to come to sign. Let him wait too. For a month, BiH and those agreements will be nothing, and I think they would send a big message from this place that all agreements can be reached in BiH in the same way, not that some agreements have priority over other agreements. For this reason, I would ask the MPs that if there are no problems and that it can be done, we would do so at the next session. If he can, I call on the Islamic community to sign such an agreement. On the other hand, I came out that, given that the extended college did not pass my proposal yesterday, to include the proposal for a conclusion that you have all received on the agenda of this session, I would like to run it today and suggest that you accept that there should be a point of the agenda for the simple reason why I think that the story and the subject of the census were all of BiH's NGOs, international organisations, round and professional tables except for who I think is by law, statistics, in particular Article 8, which is obliged to deal with, and these are the bodies at the level of the BiH state, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This conclusion is only a desire to make a little order and coordination, but also to introduce more work and seriousness into such a responsible and demanding job ahead of us. The conclusion does not state any political requirements or years when the census will be carried out.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10742	Please take your seats. So you don't walk during the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10743	It is only the task of the Council of Ministers to make the decision and to give certain tasks to the competent institutions in accordance with the Constitution and law. I think we can discuss the very essence of the conclusion when he comes as a part of the agenda and I think even this conclusion can be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10744	Thank you, Mr. Živković. 5 I have reported: Mr. Sefer Halilović, Mr. Nanić, and Mr. Genjac. If there are no mistakes, this is where the monitor shows me. So, Mr. Sefer Halilović, Mr. Nanić and Mr. Genjac. You didn't sign up, I have your name right here. Mr. Nanić, did you sign up? You're not. Mr. Genjac, are you? Here's one. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. Watch out for these buttons.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10745	Ladies and gentlemen, our dear presence, we would like to send a big message if today we were to adopt an agreement, and the Holy Table Agreement is ready and I don't see any obstacles not to adopt it. We would send an ugly message if one job that is ready to solve would be conditioned by resolving other issues. Of course, and I totally agree that we need to solve all the other issues and solve them, but that doesn't mean at all that such a significant agreement should wait for all the other issues to be solved. So a big message would be if one important job is ready, today to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10746	Thank you very much. Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10747	I want to say that it's really amazing how talented there is in this House that even the most normal things we have to deal with and complicate. I think there is no reason why today we should not consider and adopt this basic agreement between BiH and the Holy chair. And the position of the Catholic Church in relation to the Islamic Community and the Serbian Orthodox Church is specific not only in BiH but also in other countries. Well, anyway, enough to look at it yourself, austrougarski had a special concord with the Catholic Church, and in a different way it regulated the issue with the Islamic Community and the Orthodox Church. It was similar in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in the SFRY it seems to me '66-'67. A special contract has been concluded, so there are absolutely no obstacles to putting this on the agenda today and adopting it, and as there is no obstacle that in the next month or when the materials are finished, we are also considering other religious communities in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10748	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Any further reports? Here's the replica, we have two replicas. Mr. Živković, Mr. Novaković. It would be a good idea if the Council of Ministers, someone from the Resolute Ministry or one of the vice-presidents were to respond to this debate and give us the right information, but obviously there's nothing out of it. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10749	I was going to say on that background. Simply, it is obvious that fellow MPs want to misread this and present it to the public. SNSD and Serbian MPs have nothing against the treaty, ratification with the Holy chair. On the contrary. We are for that contract. The only question is why is this same contract already made and signed and just waiting to pass through the Council of Ministers and ratification in this parliament not being done with the Serbian Orthodox Church? Somebody tell me the answer to that question and there's no problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10750	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mr. Novaković, come in. We have a report from Mr Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10751	I can say, as far as the SDS Club is concerned, it is absolutely undeniable content or need for ratification of this agreement. But we've now found ourselves in a pretty, uh, let's say, awkward situation. Namely, we now have a position, a possible position, is it a worse message to leave it for the next session or not to ratify? So it should be looked at that way. I would ask my colleagues to, it seems to me, at this point is a minor problem if we postpone it for the next session. And that's why these proposals went and I'm asking you to understand. So it's like a wish to put it on the next session and settle it. I think a lot of an ugly message would be not to ratify this agreement and I wouldn't want it to get us into this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10752	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. We have Mr. Zorić. Here's Mr. Kalabić's report. We also have Mr. Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10753	I don't know what to say right now. The moment I applied, I knew exactly what I was going to say, but now that I've heard from my colleague Novaković, I don't understand anything. So it's not a questionable content of this agreement, then what's the issue? Is it questionable what's going to happen sooner? Whether it's with the Orthodox Church or with, which is one, whether it's a concession in the world or it's going to be with one state. I don't care. If this is it, if we got it on the bench, and we didn't get anything else, I'm here to do it in order. It is not disputed for me to have all the agreements here for ratification, and if someone is willing to accept themselves not to ratify it, and he likes the content, then I can't possibly understand it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10754	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. 7 Mr. Kalabić. And we have Mr. Okolić reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10755	Madam Chairman, I have tried not to engage in this debate by believing that we will understand each other, but obviously we do not understand ourselves as many other things. Clearly, the SNSD Club is sending a message that this agreement is not controversial and that it has our vote. It's completely clear. And now I'm asking if the others, after our information, are sending a message to keep each other in the drawer? Are they sending a message that they don't care when that deal comes? And don't they want our warnings that were before the Expansive College session and after the session and the contradictory information we had? And now I'm telling you that we're going to ask for a half hour break after this debate, that based on what the chairman mentioned, we want to
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10756	I intervened with the Chairman of the Council, so we didn't keep our mouths shut.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10757	Please, we want to now, although we tried in a mild way to warn and we expected that someone else in the frame and on the basis of Mr. Živković's discussion would understand what we wanted to say, having an understanding of it, obviously went in another direction. We put out what, in which our relationship to this agreement is, and now I say contradictory information and very unfair things that came after that, I don't know what the real truth is, but for me it's controversial what happens to the other two agreements that matter to us. And again, I stress nothing is disputed and everyone doesn't want it to be understood that we have another relationship with this, not that it's just a disputed agreement. But what we just did not want to deal with until the end, we expected someone to clarify it in the meantime, not to open that kind of discussion, and whether some discussions are going in the direction of supporting what is being done there in an incorrect way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10758	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Let's take it in a row. Mr. Okolić called, and he's got a replica. Who's all for replica? Mr. Izetbegović, Mr. Zorić, is there any more replicas? No, no, just sit down, Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go, Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10759	So, counterpart Kalabić said, says there is someone there against these two agreements, i.e. an agreement with the Orthodox Church. Of course it's not, and that's why I, uh, suggest one way out of this situation. To vote today on the proposed agenda and within it on the agreement with the State of Vatican, is it, and that already at the next session we enter to ask the Council of Ministers if there is indeed an agreement in a drawer with the Orthodox Church, that indeed at the next session of this house he puts himself on the agenda, that it be the conclusion of this home and that we get out of this situation in this way. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10760	Thank you very much. We have Mr. Zorić's replica, and then we have Mr. Okolić's discussion reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10761	Well, I'd go even further than my colleague Izetbegović. So, counterpart Marković, Novaković and others suggest that the agreement with the Orthodox Church be placed on the agenda. That would be correct. And I support that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10762	The Council of Ministers didn't pass, the procedure didn't go through.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10763	So they say it's just in the drawer somewhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10764	At least, that's how I chair the Council of Ministers..
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10765	I guess by the time we get to the 16th point, someone from the drawer can bring us someone here who claims it exists. If there is one, I'm in favour of that proposal and it's going to be under f, and this is going to go to g).
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10766	Wait a minute, sit down, Mr. Zorić. Is it a replica? Please. Wrong quote, Miss Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10767	Please, my colleague obviously didn't listen to what I was saying or he didn't want to understand me. I didn't say or think that today the other two agreements could be placed on the agenda when we didn't get them in the materials and it doesn't work that way. What Mr. Živković and Mr. Kalabić said is what we're looking for. So, not belittled or giving less meaning to one or another agreement anymore. We just want to honor an equal treatment in that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10768	Thank you, Miss Marković. We have a reported Mr. Okolić for discussion. Mr. Matić, what about you? Discussion. Here you go, Mr. Okolić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10769	Dear Members of Parliament, representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community, means of information, I will say the following; I have received some information here about this and I express one of my concerns that there are certain malversions here, that I am sure there is no, I would immediately support the agenda point today, and when it is on the agenda, I will support the adoption of ratification of this and it is not at all controversial. Let's get rid of that dilemma. But what can happen from all this contradictory information I've heard since this morning from several sources and I heard yesterday, that it might happen that by ratifying this contract this next contract that was in some procedure was and should be completed, who knows when it will be completed. We don't have the instruments, here, see for ourselves, to say that it was at the next assembly because I expected that someone would, and it would be normal for someone from the Council of Ministers to already jump into the discussion, rather than me or someone who had discussed it before me, and to say, "People, we miss it, we guarantee that it will be at the next Assembly or what Mr Zorić has suggested." We can bring your proposal to the end of this assembly to include it and ratify it. Now, that's our only observation, and as far as the ratification of the Treaty with the Holy chair is concerned, we have no objection to it at all, that it's clear to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10770	Thank you, Mr. Okolić. We have Mr. Matić, and then Mr. Dokić, but here appears to be someone from the Council of Ministers. Here you go. Here, maybe you'll help us. Mr. Matić, a little patience. Here I expect 15 minutes for one of you to react to give us real information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10771	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed representatives, as Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, I am obliged to inform you, and I have now gone personally and checked this again, when it comes to the agreement and document with the Serbian Orthodox Church, he is in our ministry. Talks with representatives of the Serbian Orthodox Church have been held. We're waiting for a certain official correspondence on the corrections that I wouldn't be detailing here, which doesn't matter to you anyway. However, there is no general judgment, no impasse, no misunderstanding, but everything is aimed at making the most of the quality text to be found in the agreement and for the satisfaction of the parties, primarily the Serbian Orthodox Church, and analogous to the text and document that is in the Agreement with the Holy See. I've had so much. So, for you, the fact is, that agreement is in the ministry. The reasons are not that it was in the drawer but were, therefore, the talks and negotiations and the consensus, uh, ongoing and now waiting for the finalisation of the document. The fate of this document after this will be the Council of Ministers and other procedures that are envisaged and prescribed for this type of document. Thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10772	I thank Mr. Slavko Marin, Deputy Minister for Displaced Persons and Refugees, that is, Human Rights, Displaced Persons and Refugees. So we had a metric interpretation from an authorized, so to speak, of a person. Here, just one second. Is it the replicas? I've got a report. Are they replicas? I've got a full-on debate waiting here for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10773	I'm sorry, I meant when the Ministry's representative was, just to ask who's specifically working on that ministry agreement? So, the name and last name of the man who works to bring this agreement into line.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10774	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10775	(departed from the microphone) Excuse me, personal minister, secretary of the ministry along with me as...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10776	Thank you very much. We've got a report. Here's the replica. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10777	I expected the assistant or deputy, the deputy minister, to say that the agreement would be on the agenda of this session next time. I have information that the correspondence on which the deputy story was completed, that the signature of the Serbian Orthodox Church was passed. I wonder if this agreement could be at the next session of this House? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10778	Thank you, Mr. Živković. So, we have Mr. Matić and Mr. Dokić reported. Mr. Matić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10779	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to say that we gave a positive opinion at the Foreign Affairs Committee meeting yesterday, considering the agreements and, among other things, this agreement, both unanimously and on this contract. True, there was also a question at this session of colleagues Marković at which stage, in which status lies the Treaty with 11 Orthodox Church. After clarification of the Council of Ministers' representatives, Mr Grubišić and counterpart Marković voted in a positive way to ratify the contract. I really don't see any reason, since no one today has disputed neither the need nor the content of this contract, for delaying it for another session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10780	Thank you very much. Is it a replica? Replica, Miss Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10781	Mr. Matić, I didn't even say I didn't vote for this agreement. I voted not only for this one, but for all and one agreement because we voted in the set for all agreements that were on the agenda that day. And don't put me in a position right now, or make an ambience here that I'm speaking in the direction that I'm against this agreement. I'm not against it. I asked, I asked a question, and I got an answer. It turns out that from Monday to this day, that answer apparently wasn't correct or was not entirely true about what I was told about and what I was asking about. So don't make an ambience that someone's here against that agreement. It's not about that at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10782	Oh, by the way, I think we've all said everything and we've got more information and we've got all the points, but here's when you insist, Mr. Dokić, the replica, here's Mr. Matić. Here you go, Mr. Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10783	I pointed out that today I noticed at this session that no one questioned either the need or the content between the stand and You, which is what the president of your club pointed out.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10784	I think we're clear. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10785	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I am, at the very beginning, saying that neither for me nor for the PDP is a disputed agreement, it is neither controversial nor necessary for it to be ratified. After all, I voted once for the agreement in the Council of Ministers. I think that was almost two years ago. Don't take my word for it, but long, long ago. And then it was said that the following agreements would come very quickly and some of them came, among other things and Orthodox, an agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church and, as you can see, that the old Council of Ministers did not resolve the issue, and it was really an impression, and this morning we have received additional information at the 12th meeting that there are brakes in the ministry, for some reason, to put this agreement on the agenda... after the Council of Ministers needed a procedure for him to reach this home, we know. So here the intervention of SNSD's Club of Representatives, which I am in, is a kind of political pressure to unblock the process related to the Agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church, and it can be unblocked at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers. So our insistence on going to the Council of Ministers and then there will be no question at all whether this is going to be a point a), and it will be b) or whether it will be at one session and the other at fifth or so. So we've had that approach so far, here we go first with the Agreement with the Holy chair, let it go, let it go and the rest is said, under the same conditions it will be, but obviously it doesn't work that way. And someone should seriously put a finger on his forehead and wonder why he's holding back something that shouldn't be any more controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10786	Thank you very much, Mr. Dokić. Are there any more reported? Mr. Selim Bešlagić, here's Mr. Slavko Jovičić, of course. Is there more?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10787	I would ask after the ministry's explanation, after explaining the ministry's representatives, the situation is clear to me now. We can't raise our suspicions and then lay down the conditions not to vote for ratification of the interstate rather than the agreement. The agreement can be settled by laws, it doesn't even have to be ratification. But if it's a ratification, here we've now got accurate information that we're going to have this agreement at the next session on this. Please, a member of the Council of Ministers has said that it is located, that it is a fact that it is only a consensus of certain views, and here I would ask that the conclusion be, at the next session to come out with the agreement, so if it is not all arranged, let it be and say it is not arranged and we will vote, it is not done, but do not bind one interstate agreement with any conditions of the agreement of others. The agreements don't have to be ratified, they can be legally accepted, but they don't, that we don't get into that analysis. I agree that if an agreement is made, if he has finally received a text vision, we ask that the next sessions be here in Parliament. If we can adopt that, let's adopt it, and we'll go normally with the agenda procedure. Therefore, I would ask, can the ministry give an answer, can the agreement be found next time in Parliament's session? And that's the answer. If the answer is yes, there's no reason to keep asking questions here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10788	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Is it a replica? Here you go, replica, Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10789	Please, just one replica or curved quote. You said the ministry's representative made it very clear that he could be at the next session, he didn't say that. The second thing that led us to doubt is the fact that the gentleman said that the minister, the secretary, and he himself were 13 involved in the procedure, and then he said he went to check into the ministry as far as it came. If the gentleman is involved in the procedure, then he must know where he came from, not to go to the Ministry to check, which further casts doubt on us in the statement he made.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10790	So here it's obvious that no one trusts anyone. We have Mr. Jovičić, Mr. Lozančić and Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Jovičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10791	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, you see how we from a clear situation make it so complicated that we can't almost get away with it. And what's the problem here? Now that we've dragged this Ministry into this story, why doesn't the gentleman say here that you didn't give it to the Council of Ministers when you finished the procedure? What are you agreeing to now? We ask you to give this agreement to the Council of Ministers. What the Council of Ministers will decide, what kind of decision they'll make, when they deliver to us, that's what we didn't ask. But we ask you why you didn't give it to the Council of Ministers, but here, don't keep it in drawers, keep it under the rug, keep it somewhere else in your pockets, which I know where you're holding. The question remains that you did not give to the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers be made known and that document is sent to us here. What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10792	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10793	And instead of being clear, I'm sorry, I'm temperamentally speaking, this is no offense. So, because of the clear situation, no one is, we repeat, don't get it wrong, against this agreement. It would be a shame not to accept this. But we are against this kind of work where it's done, I'll say it openly, discrimination. For us this agreement is very important, Mr. Chairman, as much as you look up, as this one... this one may be more important, but I'm not making any selection or making a graduation of what's important. Everything in this country is important. These misunderstandings are important too. That's why the problem is that we can't take a step further to consider some normal things just because the Council of Ministers....or the Ministry first has a responsibility, I can't blame the advice because they didn't even get the document. Why should I blame them? Tell me, Mr. Deputy, why didn't you let the Minister's Council discuss this? That's what you tell me. Can you tell? So why didn't you give it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10794	Are you finished, sir? Have a seat, please. Wait a minute, just one second. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Denis Bećirović. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10795	I'll say very briefly, when Mr. Jovičić said how we're complicated, I'm just correcting the wrong quote. We're not all MPs here under that term. There is a ruling parliamentary majority in this House who chose this Council of Ministers. This parliamentary majority does not belong to me or the SDP Club, and it is no wonder that you cannot agree on anything when you and this issue are complicated, but not all of us who are making this parliamentary majority, and there is an correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10796	Thanks for the correction. Here you go, Mr. Marin.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10797	Thank you. Can I get out of the place?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10798	I'd like to ask you, however, to record the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10799	Thank you, Chairman. Indeed, my clarification meant that the facts that exist present this to you. Why did I go to check it out? I was going because I see how complicated it is, and in the meantime, it's not what happened new that I don't know. That's why, and that's my saying that I took part and that I went to check it out. And what I said, that's a fact. Whether that agreement will be directed to the Council of Ministers tomorrow or two days from now, I can't guarantee it here now, because I'm not a minister. I believe this discussion will encourage and speed up the process itself. Unfortunately, it had to come to this, but the entire time lost at the agreement, I know that it was a fundamental goal, was for the reason that the text would be maximumly agreed, at the beginning of the document, in its creation, in order for the next truths such as... internal policies, the Council of Ministers and all other institutions through which the agreement would have as little disagreement as possible and when it comes to Parliament tomorrow, that it would be adopted as a finished document. Those were the reasons, and that's the information I can tell you now. I can't say here that it will be at the next session of Parliament or I don't know how much it will be called for, when it will pass into other institutions, but that, let me, this agreement, if everything is now agreed to, with the Serbian Orthodox Church, will be found in the next step that follows on the Council of Ministers, this, on behalf of the ministry here, I can promise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10800	Thank you, Mr. Marin, I hope this has been useful. We have Mr. Lozančić and Mr. Lagumdžija. Are there any more interested or will you wait for what anyone will say and intervene? Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10801	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I must, unfortunately, agree with those who have found that we are really very simple things that we know how to complicate, but I must agree with those who have said that we are not all very responsible for this complexity. What I was invited to discuss, and on this agenda point, is that I asked myself a question from where today after two sessions of the inner college, after two sessions of the extended College, that this issue should be troubled, that it should be requested to be removed from the agenda? I ask the question of what these colleges are for us, is it just an opportunity to waste a little more time or to create a notion that we're doing something because otherwise, according to what we have on the agenda and what we have in the materials, we could have calm souls, if we were to run this principle until all the agreements arrive, we could ask why we ratified dozens of agreements at the last sessions. We could ask the question why in this session, if there is or is not this agreement, we would ratify these other agreements without reading them, because it is obvious that not all the agreements that will arrive in Parliament in the next four years have arrived. So perhaps we should conclude that we should leave ratification at the end of the term of office and adopt in the package all the agreements that come in these four years, that we should all be satisfied if that's the reason, if that's the way. But then he would extend the proposal, as I think we at least plebiscitely expressed our wish, our desire to be the top priority of the citizens of this country, us MPs, the accumulation of European and Euro-Atlantic integrations, so we heard that it would take hundreds of new laws on that road, I suggest that we no longer consider any of them until all these hundreds come to the benches, so that all of a sudden we make a statement about everything. And that, then, we are truly effective and to show that we are willing to work in the interest of those who chose us. I don't really see any reason, but no reason why we wouldn't be discussing this contract today, or, I'm sorry, I have to say, uh, what the Council of Ministers did not refer this agreement to the Presidency but to deliver it to us. Unfortunately, I must conclude, and that is where I must agree with the opposition, believe me, I am not pleased at all, on this Council of Ministers, unsettled laws that may be much more necessary than many of the agreements that are coming to us. Unfortunately, here's what I think they need a little bit more time, and then we use it for something that, in my opinion, is very simple, which, for me, I say, one contract that we can build, depends on who feels it, more or less important, important, here I will agree with those who say that all the contracts are important, I will agree with those who say that all the laws are important and here, this, I will join everyone who will invite the Council of Ministers to finally start delivering what is in the final phase, to finally start delivering legal projects, to finally start, here, to create a climate in which we won't come here to think about whether exactly what the colleagues of the SNSD Club have said or exactly what the Deputy Minister said, or what some other fellow MPs said is true. So, uh, we just, I'm just looking at our role here, we should try to improve the efficiency of our work and make the flow, along with the corrections if there are. We don't have any corrections here. I really appeal to my SNSD colleagues, I don't think this contract is good, I agree, it's not good to balance it with this other contract. I am absolutely agreeing that this contract to be signed with the Serbian Orthodox Church is already being placed at the next session of Parliament and that we may be going with 16 conclusions to the Council of Ministers to oblige them to do so. I mean, I'm into that conclusion, for a recipe like that, so. But let's not really condition each other because we're really going to open up a question for a lot of other questions, whether there's something else that needs to be done. So then we're really going to deliver the question to ourselves, uh, when we're going to do something. Here's what I'm asking, so if in that sense we need to make additional consultations, to take a break, but I really don't see any reason why we should take this point off the agenda today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10802	Thank you, Mr. Lozančić. Replica, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10803	Since I'm in a way and indirectly and called, I have an obligation, you see, Mr. Lozančić, if you weren't here today, and one of the other two chairmans wouldn't explain why you're not here, I'd ask where you are. I'd ask where you are if you didn't get an answer from someone else because I think you should be there. When we talk about the Kolegijum sessions, I think it would be a very interesting question for both you and the Kolegijum why these meetings are not attended by members of the Council of Ministers, no one from the Council of Ministers. That we communicate with the Council of Ministers on such matters today. And I think that you could understand us that we have a problem in this communication, only now, I definitely don't know what the real truth is. We are now, what I have learned, yet that document is in the drawer. Where else would he be? It's got to be in the drawer. He's just about to head for the Council of Ministers. When's it gonna be? You don't know. That's what it is to me now, if I'm okay, then to the Council of Ministers, so it can go back and forward. So that's what my colleague Marković explained to me. There's nothing on the commission against this agreement, nor do I at the College, but I didn't know about that kind of impropriety that was partly yesterday, the final one this morning. I think if we're on an extended college, we should have that information there. And then we'd have valid answers. The fact is, this is the way it is now. I reiterate, for who knows which time, we have, we have nothing, nothing but the intention of supporting this agreement, but I ask the question whether the rest of this House is completely whatever is going on with the agreement, one important agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church? If everyone else cares and doesn't care when and if they ever will, let them leave it to themselves to think.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10804	Well, here's the time to discuss it. Here you go, Mr. Lozančić, Mr. Lagumdžija. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10805	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really didn't mean to pick up at the beginning because I didn't think that this agenda that was proposed would be problematic, but I would like to make one point for the discussion that was being conducted and on two proposals, one for adding a agenda point and one for taking down the agenda point, to make a point. First, regarding Mr. Živković's proposal, let's step away from religious affairs, and I will return to them. First of all, when it comes to Mr. Živković's proposal, I believe this conclusion is completely pointless and unnecessary. Not because I'm against the list, but because I want to remind you that instead of this Council of Ministers should do its job and the Agency to do its job. Let me remind you, the truth is not all those who were in the last term. In the last term, when Budget adopted for the past year, the issue of the census was politicised. At that time, as a proposal from the Commission for Finance and Budget, I proposed that an item be entered – in special programmes of purpose, page 43 of the Budget adopted, you can see that in 2006, there was a first item in Budget that was introduced – to create a project task for methodology and start up activities on the population list. And that's when the problem was overcome. I don't know what would have happened to me if I was trying to reconcile back then a government that was also fighting. I remember and Novaković had a proposal to go to the list, the others were not to go, and then the compromise solution was only logical to actually, instead of talking whether or not we should, that experts in collaboration with the EU, with our international obligations and similar devices, were our first methodology. The methodology comes out, it is known that it is being adopted in Parliament, which the commission is going through, how the Council of Ministers should do so and then it is said: okay, will be done, will start with that methodology. For this year when Budget was ahead of us, you could see that in this year, the Council of Ministers proposed a reduction of that item by 317 thousand marks, so that the item did not die in this year, but it has an amount of 183 thousand marks. In other words, with five hundred last year ahead of the election, but since the election's only four years away, it's now down to 183,000. But it looks like someone needs another list debate. Instead of discussing the list, instead of these conclusions which are weaker than the Budget Law, we simply need to remind this occasion, this Council of Ministers, or the BiH Statistics Agency of(?) which we have received the budget item and have commissioned them to create a methodology which would then be discussed, etc. So, instead of this conclusion, which is the opening of a re-debate and politicizing of issues that are certainly of a political nature, but that we previously have what it is necessary for the profession to tell us. I therefore believe that this proposal should be rejected and only a team should remind the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Statistics Agency, to begin to do what we have committed to the Budget Act for this year and for which they have the funds prepared. It's about that proposal. As for this proposal, we return to the religious communities. I suggest, if there is no need procedurally, Mr. Belkić, that you put this to the vote. We're about for the agenda to be exactly like this. And why is that? I'm sorry I might be, uh, unnecessarily precise. It's where the pears and apples go all the way. The International Treaty with the Vatican has absolutely nothing to do with the possible adjustment of relations with the Catholic Church 18 here and the Islamic Community and the Orthodox Church as the local religious communities defined by the BiH Constitution and the relevant laws that freed this parliament from the religious communities and all the accompanying acts that follow. What's important and what surprises me, I must admit, behind this proposal that lies ahead of us, is two presidencys, past presidency and this presidency. In these two presidencies, representatives of six different parties will sit with a stick. The three parties had representatives in the presidency in the previous meeting, three completely other parties having members of the presidency in this meeting. Six political parties. Feel free to say the most numerous of what? The authorities, from the opposition today, were unanimous on this proposal. What was contentious, to remind you, would not, in the basic contract signed on 23 February last year, the Bureau was defined by Article 10(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The agreement between, I repeat, the Vatican, as an international contract between the BiH state and the Vatican, which has a specific role, but also has state status, has been defined to return to the Catholic Church in BiH within 10 years without compensation. And then the question was rightly asked, can the international treaty prejudge a solution that gives one right to the Catholic Church, and other rights to the Orthodox, Islamic community, and there are no other and Jewish communities. And that's why, on September 29th, two days before the elections, at the time of silence, the presidency in God's peace, brought a supplement, quite unusual, international law, an addition to Article 10(3), which said that the fact that in the Basic Treaty, practically the Catholic Church was placed, conditionally, in a more favourable position in BiH than the two other, or three religious communities, would be said that the Catholic Church, or the Vatican, would agree to this supplement, that the question of the return of property to the Catholic Church would not work in accordance with this contract, agreement, but on the basis of the law applicable to the entire territory of BiH, for all religious communities. And by doing so, there was a failure, or an inconvenience in which, to be honest, really at the beginning, the Catholic Church, because of our sloppyness, the creaminess, however you will, but people then accepted to accept this, this change, precisely because they didn't want to have a preferential position in relation to other religious communities, knowing the specificity of our country. This treaty, in fact, the Vatican, as a state, recognises the constitutional legal order of the country, the internal structure, all the international conventions we recognise and this treaty, is only said that, in fact, since it is the state of the Vatican that bishops and other people here will set up them, and not this state, which is not at all controversial, if there is something that, therefore... In the end, let me say one more thing. Mr. Belkić, what's in this story has nothing to do with what's standing here. In fact, we have these under international agreements in line, I repeat here, the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, so no one expects us to sign an international contract with the Islamic Community and the Orthodox Church. If he's expecting it, then let me ask him where the plants are. So, I'm undermining it one more time, please, Mr. Belkić, and in addition, it's fortunate that the unfortunate Minister Alkalaj signed this on 24th of April, after the Council of Ministers, this Council of Ministers, on 19th of April, accepted this. So what's up, six members of the presidency, the entire Council of Ministers. The foreign minister, that's what a man has done after 19 decisions of the Council of Ministers, not according to his will. And it's still not about what they say about the religious community he comes from. And now we're making a problem. That's why I insist on the Rules of Procedure that we make a statement on this agenda, if they don't pull the SNSD gentleman, if this isn't enough for them. Like I'm not going to say education, but clarifying the inaccuracies they probably didn't know because in the last term, maybe they weren't, I insist that we set ourselves up by the Rules of Procedure on this, vote on their proposal... and act on the Rules of Procedure and on the agenda. If nothing, I ask you, for the dignity of the Presidency and the past and this, for the dignity of this Council of Ministers and in the extreme case of the seriousness of this Parliament. Obviously,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10806	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10807	Mr. Belkić, education wasn't enough
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10808	Thank you for the additional information some of us here also know, but in any case, as regards the vote, Mr Lagumdžija, of course we will come to a vote, however, there are many interested people who are interested in discussing it. So, we're obliged to conduct a debate on the agenda and I have to give my word to everyone. I've got a replica right now, for example. Here you go, Mr. Živković. Is it a replica, Mr. Novaković? So we also have Novaković for replication. So, about the vote, we'll see, uh, in an hour, two.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10809	I thank the chairman. As for clarification or education, in any case it is the same, I think it is lawful for the honourable MP Lagumdžija to talk about the scale of this conclusion even though it was just a draft agenda, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it does not go with each other. So we're not talking about the metrics of this conclusion, we're talking about a request to put an end to the agenda. You told the whole story here about my conclusion, and you didn't say the exact words first, the second thing, to say that you broke the Rules of Procedure. So much for explaining what a Rules of Procedure is and what a member should be working on here. The other side, please, since we have already opened the story of the metrics of this conclusion, given that the practice of talking about it has been introduced, experts have said theirs. The 500 thousand marks we asked from the SNSD to be in Budget did not look for a waste, and the money was spent creating a project draft. This project proposal implies everything. So it also contains absolutely everything necessary to start quality census preparation, completes the context of justification with the objectives of the census, legal basis, budget, demographic methodology, organization, cartography, to the List Act. He's got everything. The question is: will we in this year give the BiH Statistics Agency and BiH Statistics Offices the opportunity through the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments to do so or will we tell the story again and drag those agencies, without giving them a valid legal basis to do so. It's a story. 20 This conclusion has nothing to do with it. If it is disputed that the Council of Ministers is in charge of making a decision, so confirm what you were talking about is a project and just confirm it in its decision, then everything is disputed in BiH. On the other hand, please, when we talk about the ratification of this agreement, we'll say once again, the SNSD has no objection to the Holy See Agreement. The question is whether MPs here in this House understand the SNSD concern that the agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church, which stands for a month and a half in the drawer, does not come to a meeting of the Council of Ministers where it should go, so it should pass through the presidency, the question of whether it will ever come to this parliament. Whether things with the Islamic community can be resolved in BiH to return all objects without any agreement, voluntarily, to regulate it with the Holy chair, and to regulate it with the Serbian Orthodox Church by standing in a drawer. It's a question of this House. And that is the fear that Serbian MPs have asked you to show us that this is unwarranted fear. And we won't be against this deal if it's on the agenda. The question is, will there be a quorum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10810	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Wrong quote, Mr. Lagumdžija. Excuse Novaković, just a minute. It was a replica. But here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10811	Mr. Živković, 500 thousand marks in Budget last year did not suggest SNSD, but it was my proposal, ad1. Ad2. Those 500 thousand marks were not spent at all in the amount of 500 thousand marks. Ad3. For this reason, only 183 thousand marks were planned this year because they said they did not spend nearly any of those 500 thousand marks last year. And I just plead to start spending money on professional stuff, not political stuff. And as for the relationship to the agreement, I repeat again. An agreement with the Orthodox Church, a possible agreement with the Catholic Church in BiH, if necessary, with the Islamic Community, is not a matter of the Law on International Contracts, as is the case. And in the end, it would be good to call the President of the Council of Ministers who signed the proposal and this conclusion, since it is from your party, or to carry out within a party consultation or to have him tell us what he thinks of you(?).
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10812	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. We have a gentleman, we have a formerly reported Mr. Novaković for replication. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10813	Thank you very much. I've heard a few findings here that I'm trying to say aren't true. First of all, it is not true that this is not about an agreement between the Catholic Church and BiH. So, if Lagumdžija reads the Treaty, it means if he reads the Treaty and does not seem to have read it, he will see that the Treaty has been talking all along about the Catholic Church, from the very beginning where he says: trying to determine the legal framework of relations between the Catholic Church and BiH, etc. In doing so, I ask my colleagues not to realize that I have something against determining this framework. Of course, I'm up for it. But I'm saying that's not true. Secondly, it is not true that the centre of the Serbian Orthodox Church is not known. We did not ask here to deliver a contract between the Orthodox Church and BiH but between the Serbian Orthodox Church and BiH, and the centre of that church is in Belgrade and is an international agreement. So it is and it is inaccuracy. Whether the result of ignorance or accidental, I don't know, but, therefore, it's a fact. As soon as I took the floor to say something, I wouldn't answer it, because I answered about Mr. Živković's proposal. So we're going to support this on the agenda, not because we like this conclusion, but to change it. We think that this conclusion, in fact, gives the Council of Ministers no basis to do anything about it. In fact, we proposed this year for a budget of $3 million. It has not been accepted, neither SNSD nor other colleagues, and I agree with Mr. Živković that the last 500 thousand has not been spent, at least that's how I have the information, that it has not been spent on these purposes. So we're going to support it on the agenda just to change some of the attitudes in this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10814	Thank you very much. Here you go, and the wrong quote, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10815	I don't know what the problem is. I guess everything has to turn around like I'm talking one thing, and maybe I start talking in English, so you won't get me wrong, or in Italian. So, please, the agenda is called, the title of this is the Treaty between BiH and the Holy chair. The preamble says, and you quote the wrong thing, that it seeks to create a legal framework between the Catholic Church and BiH. No Catholic Church in BiH. And in the next indent of the preamble, it is said that more will be respected... the presence of the Catholic Church in BiH and that is why these things are being arranged. And the comparison is inappropriate with the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian Orthodox Church in BiH because we need to arrange relations in the state with the Serbian Orthodox Church BH, i.e. in BiH, the Islamic Community of BiH and the Catholic Church in BiH. Great, but relations between the Serbian Orthodox Church in Belgrade and the BiH state cannot be arranged because the Serbian Orthodox Church in Belgrade is a religious framework for the entire Serbian Orthodox Church, but it is not a state like the Holy See. And it's not an international subject. And it's all about other things. And it's like there's been a problem here on purpose. There's no problem with this. I repeat again, from my point of view, from the point of view of the SDP, our club of MPs, me as a man, that offices relate to churches and religious institutions in BiH, the laws of this country and international contracts, where international contracts belong. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10816	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Milorad Živković. I hope we'll be able to get back to work on the agenda, a plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10817	It means correcting an incorrect quote, although it hasn't been heard enough. So there is no Serbian Orthodox Church in BiH, there is a Serbian Orthodox Church, an international agreement has to be made and there is no free minister's report asked for the son of the Serbian Orthodox Church to allow this agreement to go like this. On the other hand, as far as the census is concerned, it doesn't matter who gave it, or who suggested 500,000. You know as well as I do that SNSD insisted on 500 grand for the census. You know this well, and there was a break, and it was a deal if there wasn't that money for the upcoming census, that it wouldn't pass the budget. That was clear for everyone here. So we can't say it's a SDP proposal. I think it was a SNSD proposal, and we've insisted since 2004, when the law is still standing somewhere in the drawer, that same famous drawer, that same ministry that once put that law in the drawer. And in order not to politicise, please, and so that the three million proposed SDS in Budget are operational and to find themselves in the next Budget of BiH, but also in the Budget of the Entity, let us give the Council of Ministers an opportunity because in Article 8, respectively. The BiH Statistics Law is said when authorities at the state level decide. Who can decide at the state level, the Council of Ministers and this Parliament can. Since everyone says it is more political than a professional issue, although I think it is more professional than a political issue, let me, as the largest legislative body here in BiH, ask the Council of Ministers to make a decision to define what has already been done in the project task. Either you want us not to do it this year, talk about the census again, re-politicalize that thing, or you really want to support this conclusion, and the Council of Ministers will be required within 30 days to make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10818	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Just in line, Azra. We have before Sadik Ahmetović. Come on, any more logs on the agenda. We're already an hour and 15, so let's settle two. We have Azra Hadžiahmetović, we have Mr Izetbegović. Are there any more interested? No problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10819	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my colleagues and colleagues, I think we've led this situation to absurdity and we need to break this story, so. But what I'm saying here is we use a lot of time on a drawer. So probably in the Council of Ministers there are a lot of laws in the drawers, since they come to this Parliament and we haven't been doing, uh, what 23 did to the Council of Ministers when it comes to laws. I suggest that these little drawers be emptied, that we start working with the laws that this Parliament is responsible for and that today we really vote on the proposed agenda, that this very absurd situation that doesn't make any sense brings an end to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10820	Thank you very much. Azra Hadžiahmetović
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10821	Here I really couldn't understand my colleague Živković, although I listened with attention to his argument on 2-3 occasions, explaining the addition of the agenda, i.e. the proposal to supplement the agenda. I even wrote it down. To be in charge of the Council of Ministers, in the previous, therefore, discussion, counterpart Živković said he tasked the Council of Ministers to make a decision to confirm the start of preparations, the construction was – to be in charge, to make a decision, to confirm
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10822	Excuse me if I need a break, but I can see a number of MPs leaving, so if you need a break, let's make a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10823	I mean, I'm asking you to, uh, get back to it a little bit, uh, I wonder, when my colleague Živković had coffee with Špirić for the last time, I suggest you do it as soon as possible because this is really, realising the activities, if the budget was being talked about by his colleague Lagumdžija, realising, therefore, the activities envisaged by the Budget. And secondly, uh, what counterpart Ahmetović was talking about, perhaps that fellow Špirić should open all drawers at the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10824	Here, is it, is it a replica, what is it? Replica. Please, sit down, Mr. Lagumdžija, Mr. Lagumdžija, please, sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10825	Although I didn't hear correctly, I understood, what Reverend Hadjiahmetovic said,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10826	Go ahead, there'll be a break, I'll take a break now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10827	I don't think it should be interpreted as saying enough in this conclusion here, that it obliges the Council of Ministers to make a decision to start preparations for the implementation of the population to define the tasks and obligations of BiH institutions. I really wanted to invite my colleagues, on the widest possible basis that the Constitution of BiH and the laws that have given us the opportunity to discuss this topic in the institutions, not to be the topic of daily round tables, NGOs, international factors that are in BiH, that these institutions say the Council of Ministers is in charge of doing the job. With what I heard today, I was increasingly convinced that the BiH Statistics Act, which was imposed by the High Representative in 2002, and this parliament ratified in 2004, or confirmed, should go to the constitutional assessment, given that there is no constitutional basis and that it is likely that after such a discussion and the inability to reach an agreement on something that BiH is waiting for any year ahead of us, that it will make me do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10828	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mr. Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10829	Well, this is one, uh, big political question. The question of censorship, because, therefore, Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement was implemented with 10%. Every tenth refugee Srbin from the Federation has returned to its doorstep and every tenth Hrvat and Bošnjak has thus returned to Republika Srpska. Therefore, the Dayton Agreement is not met, Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement is not met. Census will seal the violent segregation of war, so I suggest, that in 2008, 2009, in 2010, three years is enough for us to make quality preparations for the 2011 census that will be across Europe. Let's make one budget for 2008 that will predict this million marks, this one, needed for these activities and 200 million marks for the implementation of Annex VII, for the return of people. So let the Council of Ministers consider this matter, let us suggest it, but I think we need to tie these two things up.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10830	Thank you, Mr. Izetbegović. I hope I get a chance to close the debate, here's an hour and a half around the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović. Here, did you need anything?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10832	Yeah, you're saying something. You're not talking, are you? So, I'm closing the debate and we have two proposals for two, for two initiatives. 25 So, Miss Marković suggests that point 16 subf be removed from the agenda. So, we know what this is all about, we're good and we're discussing, I didn't even know we were religious. So please prepare for
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10833	Twenty minutes ago
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10834	Well, you could have done that, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10835	Well, I thought you understood me when I announced
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10836	Well, you didn't ask, Mr. Kalabić. Now you've officially requested a 20-minute break at the SNSD Club's request. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10837	Gentlemen chairman, considering this situation of our proposal and all these discussions, some were very disappointing. Some discussions have also sent certain messages. They were very interesting messages from Mr. Lagumdžija, regarding his view of this whole situation. Very interesting, I also understood them as messages. Given the clear and principled attitude of the SNSD, which we said on several occasions that we are absolutely not in a relationship, and the question, this point of the agenda and the agreement itself, means the agreement itself. Considering that things in BiH, if they want to be viewed in principle, then our discussions will be for all acceptable and fully clear what we wanted. We wanted to, in this way, identify ourselves to another problem, which is obviously a problem, which is obviously a problem, and today it has been seen from a lot of vague and unmistakable comments and everything that has been said about the Agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church. We will withdraw our proposal for, meaning to take down this agenda point, with the support of Mr. Lozančić's proposal, if I understand it correctly, and as far as I'm concerned, it may be a proposal for the Kolegijum. To oblige the Council of Ministers to prepare this Agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church together with the other institutions participating in the procedure for the next session of this Parliament and to refer it to the parliamentary procedure and to the session at the agenda of the next session. In this way we could get out of this situation and this proposal would be acceptable to us, and we would even more like it to be a proposal to the Kolegijum of this House. Thank you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10838	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. Here, the point is, therefore, SNSD withdraws the proposal to remove point 16f) with a request to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion that Mr Lozančić, in some ways, put out here, and here Mr Kalabić, uh, defined it in some way. So, it obliges the Council of Ministers to commit, together with other actors, the ratification process to the next session, which is on June 13th to discuss the proposal for a contract with the Serbian Orthodox Church. So that's the proposal for a conclusion, but let's first see if we can solve the question, the question and this second one, the other of these initiatives, or we can get right to the point of this conclusion that's about the withdrawal. So, please, Mr. Novaković. I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10839	In conclusion, it seems to me that you are different, you and Mr. Kalabić, this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10840	I believe we are, I mean, everything is different in us. I'm sorry, I agree with Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10841	Well, I'm sorry now, too, so I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10842	I agree with Mr. Kalabić, everything Mr. Kalabić said and I agree. I'm not gonna talk about this anymore. So here's the proposal for a conclusion Mr. Kalabić made, which is the conclusion of Mr. Lozančić. I hereby declare that I have no objection to the conclusion that I support him. So now it's just a matter of procedure. The SNSD practically withdraws the agenda point, in a way, with a request to reach this conclusion, so I suggest that we make a statement on the proposal for this conclusion. It is essential that by the next session we commit the Council of Ministers and those involved in the process to provide by June 13th for the discussion of the proposal for a contract with the Serbian Orthodox Church, to hold a session of parliament. So, can we make a statement about this? Stand by, vote now. With 27 votes to, without against, five abstentions, enough entity majority, we adopted this conclusion not to repeat it. At the same time, the SNSD withdraws its request to remove point 16f). 27 We have another initiative to change the agenda. So this is a proposal for a conclusion submitted by Mr. Živković. You got it on the desk so I wouldn't read it, but here's the record. It is therefore the conclusion that the BiH Council of Ministers is committed to decide, in co-operation with the government of the Federation of BiH, the Government of the Republic of RS, the BiH Statistics Agency, the Republic Statistics Institute, the Federal Bureau of Statistics, to launch a decision on the preparation and implementation of the census, households and dwellings in BiH to define the tasks and obligations of BiH institutions to carry out this activity. Under 2. The Council of Ministers will submit a report to the House of Representatives within 30 days on the activities undertaken to implement this conclusion. So, we are voting on the agenda of the proposal for a conclusion on preparations for the implementation of the census, households and housing in BiH. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 16 votes against 21, the proposal for this conclusion on the agenda failed. So I can now conclude that we have adopted the following agenda for the 9th session of the House of Representatives: 1. Record from the 8th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. The request of MP Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the draft law amending the Law on the temporary ban on the availability of state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. Proposal for a law on radiation and nuclear security in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Framework Law on Preschool Education and Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Industrial Property Act - Proposers: MPs Selim Bešlagić and Mirjana Malić, also (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Safety Act on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mehmed Suljkanović, also (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Momčilo Novaković, also (first reading); 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the Commission Report on Finance and Budget - Proposers: MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić; 11. Report by the BiH Presidency on the decisions taken on pardon for 2006; 28 12. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006; 13. Business report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office for 2006; 14. Proposal for a Decision establishing and delirious inter-parliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries; 15. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Interresor Working Group to prepare the text of the draft law amending and supplementing the law is about the Election Law, the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH Authorities and the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and 16. Giving consent to ratification: a. The Agreement on the Military Grant between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Constituent Protocol relating to Financial Assistance between the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the General Staff of the Republic of Turkey, b. the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the North Atlantic Contracting Organisation (NATO) on the Security of Information, c. The Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on Co-operation in the field of defence, d.A. The Agreement establishing a railway network of great opportunities in South-Eastern Europe, e. the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Serbia and Montenegro on the return and acceptance of persons who do not fulfil, or no longer fulfil the conditions for entry or stay in the territory of another country, f. the Basic Treaty between Bosnia and the Holy See and the Additional Protocol on the Basic Treaty. So we go to point one. Ad. 1. Record of the 8th session I'm opening a debate on the record at the 8th session. You received a record, of course, of course with the materials, at the invitation. You have seen in what sense the minutes have been completed, the 7th session minutes on the remarks of MP Bećirević, I thank him, he accepted such a solution. If there are no objections to this record, can we make a statement? Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 37 votes for, without prejudice, a sufficient entity majority. I find that we have adopted the record from the 8th session of the House of Representatives. We're going to item two of today's agenda, so 29 Ads. 2. It is about parliamentary questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10845	Thank you, Your Honor. I got the answer, I'm satisfied with the answer and I'm happy with what's been answered, that's what I knew. However, I asked if we Krajišnik will be the only ones left in BiH? It is written here that Koridor Vc, not to read now these four, five, that Krajina will connect across a network of European roads through BiH E 761 Bihać, Petrovac, Jajce, Sarajevo, Visegrad, Vardište, border with Serbia, which is quite OK. However, you know that Corridor Vc is going quite slowly. I've potentiated this multiple times because, according to my unofficial information at the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications, there's a project to run a fast road to Lower Wacouf. There is also a fast road in Tuzla-Osje, and I think this state ministry in co-ordination with the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications should see that the project expands and goes to Jajca and from Bihac to Kljuk to Mrkonjic. 'Cause believe me, in Bihac, it takes five hours, especially when the weather is up, it's really cut off. It means taking care of Bihac, Krajina and Sarajevo in these priorities and fast roads. Thank you so much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10846	Thank you, Mr. Bahtić. I would only like to conclude that 41 MPs, 27 from the Federation, 14 from the RS, are present at the session, with the justified absence of Huskić Adem. That's what the records do. We have a comment from Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10847	The answers I got in time, what came in, is, before the session starts, we'll leave an opportunity for the next session, eventually if we disagree with the answers. One of my questions was why the BiH Ministry of Defence did not accept the request of the University of Tuzla for participation in the distribution of facilities under the responsibility of the Federation of BiH Army and Husein Kapetan Gradaščević barracks in Tuzla, and Paša Bunar Paša for the needs of the University of Tuzla. I received an answer saying, among other things, that the BiH presidency's decision set out as perspective locations and, unlike other BiH cities, the only one in Tuzla seems perspective, etc. As soon as it comes to supporting the development of a part, in this case of the University of Tuzla, we immediately have a situation like this, a relationship that stems from this response to the parliamentary question. My only question is, why isn't it a promising and fast road to Tuzla from Sarajevo or possibly a connection to Corridor Vc? Why isn't it a prospective Tuzla airport? Now that we have equipment for the airport in Banja Luka, Mostar, Sarajevo. She's sad and she's marginalized. Why isn't there a Minister of Tuzla Canton perspective? Because here is the second Council of Ministers meeting we have a situation that no minister is from Tuzla or Tuzla region. Tuzla seems only perspective to those who are in power today, when it is to dig coal, dig salt, produce electricity. And for this marginalising attitude towards the country's largest region, among other things, I consider first and foremost representatives of the Party for BiH and the SDA in power. And I'm asking here to supplement my answer, expert opinion. Why is the barracks in Tuzla perspective, and other barracks when given to other universities in other cities are not? The second question was for the Council of Ministers. What exactly are you planning to do for the first 100 days of the BiH Council of Ministers' work? Or what will you implement from the agreement signed on 3 January of this year by the ruling parties? And I got a response from the Council of Ministers who stepped on one page. And one page, among other things, shows that none of the points of the agreement signed today by the ruling parties and parties that make up the parliamentary majority here have been realised. And the third question was for the Council of Ministers. What have you done specifically so far and what will you do specifically in the coming period to help innocent old woman Fata Orlović? 31 From the answer it is very clear that they have done nothing concrete, and that nothing concrete seems to be able to do. Neither the Council of Ministers nor the chairman of the Council of Ministers nor the Minister of Human Rights, which is truly devastating.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10848	Thank you, Denise Bećirović. There are no replicas and discussions on parliamentary issues. Mr. Rifat Dolić. Can you discuss it on the spot, Sadik?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10849	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I have received answers to four parliamentary questions of which one answer has been doubled, so there probably twice one answer sent. With a response from the Council of Ministers concerning collective refugee centres in BiH, I am pleased and thank you for your response. And this answer is duplicated, so. With a question relating to crime and the protection of the assets of Agrokomerac, which was addressed to the Council of Ministers chairman, he found himself incompetent to the issue. Please forward this question to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection at the BiH Ministry of Security. And the next question was addressed to SIPA. It is a question for the group of persons and the company “Galaxica” from Bihac concerning the investigation of illegal imports of high-tariff goods through the Izacic border crossing. Please forward this question to the Financial Police and the BiH Federation Customs Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10850	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Any more comments on the answers received? If there isn't, we'll move on to the other part. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić. Is there a comment on the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10851	Which I got a parliamentary question, an answer, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10852	Yeah, yeah, I've been asking you three times, I'm offering to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10853	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of the five questions asked, I received an answer to one parliamentary question, and I must say that I am partially satisfied because they at least tried to answer, but I did not ask a parliamentary question to be delivered to me by the Internal Organisation and Work Systematization Regulation, so they listed 32 advisers, Minister. I wasn't interested in that. I specifically asked the question and asked to be delivered to me by the foreign ministry, the embassy and the DKP, to see who was employed there on family and other lines. And so there are no names. So, I'm asking an additional parliamentary question, to get me that information I asked in the previous question. Of course, I am expressing my gratitude to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the only effort, and I have asked a parliamentary question for 52 institutions that bear attributes and prefix of state, to deliver me a national structure. Niko of them did anything. At least thank them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10854	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. Here, is this how we ended up commenting on the answers we received? If we did, we're moving on to this other part. So, asking MPs questions. I've had Mr. Lozančić reported, he hasn't used it yet. Here we go in a row. So, Mr. Lozančić, Mr. Živković, sir, slowly, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Milica Marković, Mr. Todorović is whether, Mr. Remzija Kadrić, Azra Alajbegović, Mr. Matić, Novaković, Okolić, Mr. Sefer Halilović, Denis Bećirović and Mr. Dolić. I would pray that all those who have any intention of now pleading to put in one order, not when we end up at some time to remember. Here, can we conclude that we've received applications, so to speak. Let's take it in a row. Mr. Lozančić, then Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10855	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I will apologize to you in advance. Here's the ninth session, I've never used this representative privilege before to ask anyone. I even hoped I'd never have to ask, but here, so forgive me for asking 3-4 questions today that I believe are interested in and one significant number of you but others in this country as well. The first question I want to ask the Minister of Justice of BiH, which is: - Who, when and by the basis of which regulations or decisions has established a special department for Croatian issues in the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH? Reason – recently in this same hall, we were considering a report on the State Prosecutor's Office's Information that we had the opportunity to hear that the State's Attorney's Office was undercapacitated, that it was unable to determine a special team for the processing of war crimes committed in the protected UN zone of Srebrenica. These days I've heard protests from Tuzla about the slowness in the processing of some similar crimes in Tuzla space. We had a recent question of 33 of a respected representative who has received an answer that he is not satisfied with, who has asked for some alleged criminal activities in AgroComerc. We also heard in this hall about some alleged criminal privatisations of some brewers and many other businesses in BiH. All these and other cases await the full training of the prosecution and other law enforcement agencies so that both we and the public will finally know whether the charges, spoken in this Chamber, are justified or not. At the same time, investigative activities are conducted explicitly in the early morning, as usual before dawn, ministers, prime ministers, police commissioners and some former members, including the BiH presidency, are purchased from the bed and are detained in a special detention unit of the BiH Court of Justice. Since it is by chance or not exclusively for officials who are exclusively Croatian nationalities, me and the public who asked me the same thing, we have concluded that a special department for Croatian issues has been set up in the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH, which deals exclusively with Hrvat, as a rule, when some political decisions are to be made. It used to happen when constitutional amendments to the entity constitution were to be adopted, sometimes when the story of constitutional reforms in BiH was opened, sometimes again when police reform started and sometimes late in the establishment of government. Anyway, then after these latest actions in Mostar, I expect the express implementation and establishment of power and I think, and I think police reform will go much faster. So I ask the Minister of Justice to answer my question as soon as possible until someone remembers that he and I are Hrvat, so it may happen that next time I have to ask where our minister is or maybe the minister won't have someone to deliver the answer to. The answer may be oral, but I'd rather have a written and written answer to this question. I would like to ask the state prosecutor and the presidents of the BiH Court of Justice a second question. - Are the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office BiH institutions and, if they are, are the judges and prosecutors who are foreign nationals of this state or of another state, or who gives them the salaries and other fees they receive? Are their salaries and other fees paid from the BiH Budget and are they the same as the salaries and fees of judges and prosecutors who are citizens of BiH? If by chance wages are received from someone other than this country, do they correspond to someone else or someone else in this country for their work? If they answer to someone in this country for their work, please answer me which institution or individual they are responding to, because I would like to address them because of a number of objections to their work. Are the President of the Court of BiH and the Attorney General satisfied with the work of their colleagues who are not citizens of BiH and the level of cooperation and mutual respect, and, if so, do these institutions also accept responsibility for the possible failures of their fellow citizens? The third question goes to the Office of the High Representative in BiH. - Why did he impose the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH and who and with what reason asked the High Representative to do so? If my information is correct, it is required from the Court of Justice and the 34 BiH Prosecutors who have never addressed either the resolution ministry or the Council of Ministers or this Parliamentary Assembly with such a request. The fact that they haven't spoken to the institutions of this state is nothing new to me. I have a bigger problem with the fact that in this way the credibility of the country's institutions is being undermined, knowingly imputed in this way, that they are not well-trained enough for the benign changes of the law, or does this mean some special relationship between the judicial institutions and the OHR institutions? And the fourth question goes to this House of Representatives and here's to the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. - Is there anyone in this country that can guarantee me that my representative immunity will be respected and that I will not be persecuted by special departments for Croatian or political matters because of the questions I asked today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10856	Thank you, Mr. Lozančić. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10857	I thank the chairman. I'll ask you a quick question. However, I have to answer at the last session, I said I would run for the issue of opening the BiH Cultural Centre in Zagreb, but since the minister's reaction has come, saying he will request sanctions for the secretary of the foreign ministry, I gave up the issue. I will also run for another issue, with regard to the foreign minister's visit from 30.04 to 04.05. And since, in my opinion, he did not meet with equal speakers and people of influence during that visit, did he represent, during this visit, whether he was representing the agreed positions of the BiH presidency or his personal views and whether the visit was in the post of preparing the Protocol of the visit to the BiH Presidency or just one member of the presidency? It has meaning for these issues so far 5 or 6 concern BiH's foreign policy, the session in late June will be in which the session will focus only on parliamentary issues and when, hopefully, with the Council of Ministers, we will be able to discuss these issues and get answers about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10858	Thank you, Mr. Živković. We have Mr. Slavko Matić and handed over the written letter, the question. Please, Mr. Slavko, do you need to take it out in public? 35
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10859	Yes, thank you. My question is directly addressed to the Directorate for Implicit Taxation, and I ask for an answer through the Council of Ministers. - Based on what legal rule has the Taxation Authority made a decision on the distribution of revenue obtained from terminals at border crossings? What were the reasons for the decision? Is the retroactive and forced charge from the accounts of certain municipalities of these months for 2006 amounts in general in accordance with the law, given the time offered by the Administration, which would resolve these relations between the Administration and the municipalities is never signed with these municipalities. A brief explanation - The Directorate for indirect taxation at the end of 2005 contacted terminal owners, and among other owners, individual terminals owned by municipalities, local communities, asked to establish a relationship on the distribution of revenue obtained on terminals, and it is mainly about revenues from parking collection for those goods burdens that must be kept there. The contract they offered with municipalities such as Orasja, Domanica, Šamca from the Federation of BiH and certain municipalities in RS Brod, Gradiška, if not more heated or, I don't know, Luka Brcko, so in Mostar border crossing, such contracts have never been signed, but these months the Directorate for indirect taxation is removing the amounts of financial resources from the accounts of these municipalities and thereby leading to the situation of a particular municipality so that they may soon be blocked in the performance of their basic tasks and jobs. I'm asking for a written reply from the Board of Directors through the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10860	Thank you. Please, I suggest that the questions be with as brief an explanation as possible by not taking away anyone's right, but our arguments are growing more and more widespread and becoming something different from the questions. And in writing whoever submitted the questions to deliver us here in writing. Here you go, Mr. Šemsudina.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10861	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two brief questions. First, I refer to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and the Presidency, and what is it going to do – to return the documents of the International Court of Justice in The Hague to the institutions of BiH so that future historians can be made available? As is known, certain activities are being carried out recently, making governmental, non-governmental organisations take over the Hague documentation for storage. And most strangely, that documentation could end outside BiH. 36 And the second question I refer to the Council of Ministers – namely, we have witnessed in the last 10 days an enormous increase in the price of construction material especially steel and cement. Given that this branch is owned by a single entity in BiH, I ask the Council of Ministers to open talks with these entities, including the Competition Council, because certain BiH entities are seriously considering applying against them because of monopoly behaviour on the market. The fact is that artificial crises of these materials were first made, and then suddenly at the beginning of the construction season there was an enormous increase in the prices of these materials. The reasons for this should be sought if we know that there has been no increase in the price of input raw materials or the price of the energy used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10862	Thank you very much, Mr. Mehmedović. We have a registered Miss Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10863	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is addressed, I have one question only, addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it says: - Why did the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs not come forward on the initiative of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish interparliamentary co-operation between the National Assembly of the Republic of Hungary. The reason for this was the following – namely, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has requested, in fact, the opinion and consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as one of the state institutions needed to declare such initiatives coming from entities and we had this initiative on the Foreign Affairs Commission on the agenda on 21 May. On my question and the finding why not, we do not have the foreign ministry's opinion on this, the Commission's secretary informed us that he regularly and in good time asked for a written opinion from the competent ministry. It was requested to be delivered until the moment of the session, therefore, to the commission, but it was not delivered. I ask the question why it has not been delivered and ask, of course, for the Ministry to deliver its opinion to me in writing on this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10864	Thank you, Miss Marković. Mr. Todorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10865	My question concerns supporting the resolution of the post-functioning border crossing in Gradišca. The explanation – the border crossing in Gradišca is located in the city centre and causes serious consequences on the organisation and functioning of life in the city and around the city. Due to the high frequency of the vehicle, the infrastructure in Gradišca is permanently collapsing. The proposal – to provide for the ongoing investment maintenance of traffic and infrastructure in the function of the border crossing and terminals for regular revenues in Budget of the municipality from revenue for terminal use services, in such a way that at least 50% of these revenues are paid directly into the budget of the Municipality of Gradiška. On this proposal, we are bound by the European Charter on the Protection of the Rights of Local Self-Government as well as by strong trends in the centralisation of government, especially in the field of fiscal policy, which makes it impossible and deprives the funding of local self-government. I'm looking for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10866	Thank you, Mr. Todorović. Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10867	I'm thanking you. I have two short questions. The first question is: - Is the holiday law published in the "SR BiH Served List" No.2/92 still in force? I refer this question to the Council of Ministers and ask for a written answer. This issue is about my earlier question of the importance of the rules that have been in place until the entry into force of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I have received the answer to that question, how is the listing of these rules large and unnecessary, however, I will go from regulations to regulations and will ask specifically the Council of Ministers, among other things, and for this holiday law, whether he is in force or not? And the second question I refer to the Council of Ministers or another competent institution that reads: - What does this have to do with the negative meaning of entity voting and the RS police with Islam? The brief explanation - Milorad Dodik, SNSD president and RS Prime Minister, was at a press conference in Banja Luka a few days ago, as the Dnevni Avaz quoted us as saying in RS in conditions of strong strengthening of bindingism and seeing people walking around the world for terrorist actions that are being trained in BiH cannot remain without their police, nor do we want to do so. Also, Milorad Živković, the first deputy chairman of the SNSD's House of Representatives and member of the SNSD's General Committee, also said at a press conference in Banja Luka, as quoted by Dnevni Avaz and Glas Srpske, that there would be no 38 talks on entity voting because, as it stands, it is clear to all in RS that entity voting is the only safeguard mechanism of BiH's efforts to turn into a unitary Islamic country with Bosnian and Arabic language as official language and letter. On those statements, I ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10868	Azra Hadžiahmetović. Alajbegović, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10869	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have one parliamentary question and two initiatives. The parliamentary question is: - At what stage is the process of preparing the highway on Dobrinje-Kakanj? And the initiative concerns, the Council of Ministers notes, and refers to the initiative of a certain group of citizens of Kakanj Municipality to take the highway through the tunnel so that the tunnel would be from the thermal power plant to Biljesev. The explanation is – that such a solution could be held by an existing road that is now in traffic as a regional road, which is, by the way, an obligation. There would be no need to build a new regional road, further pollution would be prevented from the Kakanj municipality, which is otherwise a synonym of pollution for the whole region, and thus also the disease of the population of the Kakanj municipality from contaminants. And another initiative, short, to the Council of Ministers – to consider the possibility of delivering in the parliamentary procedure a set of environmental laws, since in 2002 a set of the same laws was adopted at entity levels and which provided for a common fund for environmental protection at the state level with the basic principle that the polluter pays and that what is polluted later is returned through the improvement of the infrastructure of polluting municipalities because these laws are not applicable and have proved quite impossible to implement at entity levels. I ask the Council of Ministers to deliver to the parliamentary procedure a set of environmental laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10870	Thank you very much. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10871	I have two questions and an emergency. Namely, I first ask the competent ministry to provide me with a correspondence between the ministry and the Serbian Orthodox Church regarding the agreement, i.e. the basic contract between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church. 39 Second, what does the Council of Ministers intend to do to remove imbalances in the management of security services or agencies? Namely, as is known at this time, if the Ministry of Security, SIPA, Border Police or the State Border Service is taken, I do not know if the law was passed in the House of Peoples and OSA, then there is no representative of the Serb people at the head of those institutions. I would also like to repeat the questions raised at the meeting of 12 April 2007. Since the full 45 days have passed, and I haven't received an answer to either of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10872	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10873	I refer the initiative to the Public Enterprise News and Issues Organisation of the Official Journal of BiH. - Based on the remarks made by many users of the Official Messenger of BiH, Public Procurement Advertiser, due to the difficulty of getting an overview of the same, I am giving the initiative to establish procurement notices, contract award, cancellation of procurement and correction procedures, procurement notices published in the Official Messenger of BiH every Monday in a way that enables users to make it easier to obtain and apply. In that sense, all of the above notices shall be drawn up in alphabetical order by the name of the municipality or the city from which the notice comes. I don't think the explanation should be, except that someone who needs to be in the Official Messenger, here I am applying in writing, as you need to find, is required to lose at least 45 minutes because it's not chronologically complex.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10874	Thank you, Mr. Okolić. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10875	Dear President, honourable fellow Members, esteemed guests, I will try to skip this part of the reasoning, but as an MP, I insist that since I am delivering the initiative and the questions in writing, that in the record you publish and the explanation, that the minutes also contain arguments about what I will now present to Parliament 40, given that both the arguments are very much related to what I am going to talk about. First, I will propose a parliamentary initiative and ask for Parliament to declare itself at the end of this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10876	If others ask as much as you do, the record will be 50 to 100 pages.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10877	I don't know about others.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10878	Maybe we'll print, we'll make a deal in the end, maybe we'll print your argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10879	It's not a problem three, four pages, we print what it is anyway, so it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10880	We'll print it, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10881	The parliamentary initiative reads as follows: Given the need to build trust between bh. To the peoples, and wanting to promote positive examples in defending the common life and the fundamental human rights of the peoples and citizens of BiH, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopts an initiative tasked by the BiH Council of Ministers to assist the construction of Srdjan Aleksic's monument in Trebinj in co-operation with the competent authorities of Trebinje municipality. Reason: Srđan Aleksić, 20, was killed in January 1993 in Trebinj defending his fellow citizen, Alen Glavović, who was beaten by three members of the RS Army. Srđan managed to save his fellow citizen's life, but he paid this magnificent act of human courage and humanity with his own life. His father raditi wrote in his obituary – he died doing his human duty. In memory of Srđan Aleksić, the Igman Initiative and the Regionalism Centre will submit an initiative to the authorities in Novi Sad that one street in this city will be named after Srđan. The Helsinki Committee will posthumously assign Srđan to the plaque. Also in memory of this brave man, whom civil solidarity led to death, author Sanja Dragičević made a 30th-minute film entitled "Srdjo". I believe that Srdjan's execution must not be forgotten but rather be a lasting message for the future that we should safeguard as a bright example of civil solidarity. It is time for the authorities, all in this country, the media and other segments of BiH society, to begin to point out more strongly and positive examples from closer and further history of the country. If there were no such people as Srđan Aleksić, I think this country would have no future and I think we should really start talking about positive people in this country, not only are we on the agenda and in the first minutes of the news: fascists, war criminals, bandits and criminals. I'm delivering this initiative and I'm asking, therefore, for us to be clear about it. 41 I first ask the parliamentary question for the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office to respond: why, 12 years after a terrible crime at the Tuzla gate, committed on 25 May 1995, no indictment has been filed since one of the most documented crimes was committed. The citizens of Tuzla and BiH are disappointed to know that no indictment has yet been filed 12 years after a terrible crime that took place on May 25th 1995 when one grenade, fired from the position of the RS Army on Ozren, at the site of the gate, killed 71 and wounded 172, mostly a young man. I'm asking this team before this year's reminder of this crime was accompanied by information that confused the public. Thus, for example, "Freedom" has since 02 May 2006 published a text entitled the Unnamed Prosecutor of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Tuzla, which states that the prosecution of massacres at the Tuzlan Gate is in the domain of fiction. The unnamed Prosecution Prosecutor declares that the UN tribunal is seeking a written shelling order, which is impossible to reach at this time. This reportedly explains the blocking of the possible processing of the perpetrators of this crime. All this is saying that the crime at the Tuzlan kapija is being followed by an inefficient domestic investigation machine that is not capable, apparently, of pressing charges. For this reason, as an MP at the House of Representatives, I am publicly asking a question and I expect an answer: why is justice slow in the case of the gate? I have several questions concerning the following: On the occasion of the disputed and, I suspect, illegal detention of BiH citizens Ilija Jurisic, who took place at the Belgrade airport in the Republic of Serbia on 11 May 2007, I am asking parliamentary questions to the Council of Ministers – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH and the Ministry of Justice, for which I am seeking a precise answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10882	Please be patient, please be quiet. Merdžana, please, silence.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10883	What is the responsibility of the BiH authorities – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Embassy, or consular representations, to do to protect BiH citizens who are in a position to be detained for any reason by the authorities of another state? Whether in accordance with the provisions of international conventions, agreements or other international documents in the criminal-law area, and in the light of the provisions of the BiH Constitution and the BiH legislation, a BiH citizen can be removed in a foreign state, and based on a criminal application covering an event that took place in the BiH state. Has the BiH Parliamentary Assembly ratified all international conventions relating to extradition and transfer of proceedings in criminal matters, and if not, why not? Why BiH did not sign an agreement with the Republic of Serbia or a protocol modelling the so-called Republic of Serbia. The Zagreb Protocol, which provides that each party will prosecute its citizens suspected of war crimes? 42 Does the BiH Ministry of Justice have the knowledge that an investigation has been conducted against Ilija Jurišić on the occasion of the events that took place, is it in... internationally recognised countries on May 15th 1992?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10884	May I have your attention, Mr. Novaković?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10885	I ask the Ministry of Justice if the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia tried to secure the presence of Ilija Jurišić by his invitation, which they did, after all, respecting the provision of Article 166. The law on the criminal proceedings of the Republic of Serbia, its own state, were they obliged to do so? If they are, I'm asking for answers from which authorities did it? Did they do so in a regulated manner through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and other BiH authorities or through entity bodies and which? Explanation: Mr. Ilija Jurišić, since there are really little more issues, I am delivering you in writing form and explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10886	That's correct. Mr. Halilović, did you sign up?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10887	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10888	Here you go. We have Mr. Dolić, we have Mr. Sadik Ahmetović. Here's a chance if anyone else has changed their mind to register that, too. I see, of course we do. Mr. Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10889	Sir, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be brief because I get the impression that you're a little nervous about these questions, but here's ours to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10890	Not at all. I have to say, I'm very nervous.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10891	Well, that's why I'm going to cut back on my arguments a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10892	We've been working for two and a half hours, nothing. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10893	Uh, at first I would just like to, before I ask these two questions that I think I would like to ask you, one more time, as the College of this House of Representatives, to try to answer as soon as possible the parliamentary question I asked in the last session because it is the TV broadcasts of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of Parliament, and I would just like to remind you that, as far as I know, throughout Europe, including the whole of Southeast Europe... Turkey, only two, the only two parliaments that do not carry out TV transmissions are the BiH Parliament and the Federation of BiH Parliament, and I really think there is no reason not to carry out transfers, and there is even less reason not to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10894	Here's the College trying to work it out. We're still under negotiation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10895	I just remind you that these days, the Association of Pensioners and some other NGOs that are looking for, too, are being transferred because they want to see what MPs and ministers are doing here because there is some kind of opinion, or public opinion in, that we are, in fact, criminals who are receiving high wages, and who are doing nothing, people simply want to see who they voted for and how we do it. Two short parliamentary issues concern the donations BiH has received since '96. until 2006. On the parliamentary commission that was formed, to the presentation of Mr Pedi Eždaun, this, that 9 billion marks were embezzled, or not purposefully spent in BiH and that, I don't think there is a need to, to shorten your suffering, this and the time, with an explanation I will deliver, refers to the College of the House of Representatives and the Ministry of Foreign Trade, since they too have worked on this issue and ask for me to deliver this documentation based on which we will later try to, yes, uh, initiate the debate here at parliament and finally to end this documentation where it belongs. If there were abuses then in the prosecution, this BiH State Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10896	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10897	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, may be one of the MPs who is using more intensively the mechanism of parliamentary issues for the reason that I belong to the opposition and cannot directly get answers to some parliamentary questions as colleagues from the position and the other thing that I need, means having official answers to questions that are of interest to the citizens I represent. I have two parliamentary questions today. The first question is the foreign minister at the BiH Council of Ministers. The question is: What is the fate of the initiative launched several years ago by the municipalities of Velika Kladhu and several neighbouring municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, 44 for the opening of small-scale crossings of Zagrad, Drmaljevo and Oblaj in the Municipality of Velika Kladhu, which are of great interest to these municipalities, and especially to citizens who are gravitating this area and having properties on both sides of the border? Since the launch of this initiative, 1 small border crossing of Zagrad has been opened, and the opening remains 2 years a year without any explanation. Due to the constant questions of citizens on both sides of the border, I ask the question: is the earlier initiative to open these small-scale crossings still current or in the procedure and what is its fate? If it's not current who can launch a new initiative, who and in what form? The second question is the question of the BiH Council of Ministers' Human Rights and Refugees. Who can be consulted by citizens, returnees to the UN-San canton or their representatives who have been listening or reading information about various agreements between governments and the Elektroprivreda about joining electricity returnees for years? Yet, six or eight years after their return, they do not have the basics for life called electricity and water. These people are tired of talking and driving from municipalities to Elektroprivreda and vice versa and it's high time to provide them with the conditions of sustainable return without which life is unimaginable today, which is electricity. I personally became convinced that after this kind of behavior, there was not a small number of those who replaced the return with a new refugee or a definitive departure. These cases are particularly expressed in the Unsko-San canton in the Sanski Most, and there are in Bosnia Krupa, Bihać and Velika Kladusa and I cannot find another word for this other than deliberately obstructing the return to their hearths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10898	Thank you, Mr. Dolić and we have more Mr. Ahmetović and Mr. Erić. Here you go, Mr. Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10899	I'll have a brief, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my colleagues and colleagues. So, what, is the question addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers: what does the BiH Council of Ministers do to charge on the basis of submerged land in BiH for the purpose of accumulated hydropower plants Bajina Basta and Mali Zvornik? Namely, another line of reasoning. By law of '76. A significant part of the funds has been paid into these local communities and nothing has been paid since the war here because of the lack of agreement. I pray that this question be answered to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10900	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Here's another question for Mr. Erić. Here you go, Mr. Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10901	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. 45 I have one short question: what did the BiH Prosecutor's Office do to expose the guilty and the circumstances of the massacre against innocent soldiers, so-called. The Tuzla column in Brchanska Malta, Tuzla? This was asked by Parliamentarian Bećirović, who, in addition to his question, should have asked this question for co-existence in Tuzla and BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10902	I thank Mr. Erić, or all of you who have asked questions and used your right. This is how we figure it out. Well, I hope you all deliver. The practice is to deliver the issues during the session, to deliver them, please, and initiatives, so we have Mr. Denis Bećirović and Mrs. Azra Alajbegović's initiative as well. We will follow the Rules of Procedure with initiatives, go to the College and determine a further procedure for these initiatives. No, no, this kind of initiative, when we finish the commission, this kind of initiative goes to the College first, we determine the competent commission and we bring it back here. Of course, we're very up-to-date and we're doing a job. So we're concluding this point on the agenda. We move on, finally, to work after three hours. So we have point three Ad. 3. MP Azra Hadžiahmetović's request to discuss the draft law amending the Law on the temporary ban on the availability of state-owned property by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 127. The proposal for this emergency procedure law was delivered here to us in the May 11th procedure. It's on the agenda, to remind you, according to the Rules of Procedure. So, first we're considering an emergency procedure request. So, first we're considering an emergency procedure request. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Are there any reports? If not, please prepare to make a statement about the emergency procedure request. Vote now. With 17 votes to, three against, nine abstentions, no entity majority, unfortunately, I must conclude that this request has not been accepted. So, it goes into alignment, here, obviously, so, the alignment will be for the next session. We're going to the point, of course, here you go, Azra, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10904	Let me remind you that on 31 May, therefore, before the term foreseen for the next session, the deadline already declared by the High Representative, which refers to the ban on the availability of state property, thus prolonging, means any prolonging, in practice, not to the adoption of this law. Here, let me finish. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10905	Please, a little attention, let's hear it, this is a very important thing. He has the responsibility of this House because we have taken over this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10906	So, the outcome of this bill, I just want to draw attention to that there is no need for reconciliation, colleagues, since the term ahead is right in front of us. That's one thing, and the other, I'm going to ask listing normally, really, without any jokes, but this is about one serious issue, a serious problem. Secondly, I have come to the conclusion of this law, regardless of what outcome it has experienced, and I ask the College to conclude the vote, i.e. two conclusions. On the ground, therefore, the Law prohibiting the availability of state property - the first conclusion that the Council of Ministers initiates negotiations with entity and Brcko District governments in order to overcome the conceptual differences regarding resolving the issue of state property - the second conclusion that the Council of Ministers of BiH powers the Commission, in this or other composition, to continue its work on drawing up an appropriate draft law on the basis of an agreement between governments after the agreement has been reached. I ask that this House be made clear on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10907	This proposal, these two conclusions, should be within this agenda point, regardless of the outcome, I believe that the promoter knows why he's doing this, and I'm sure he knows why he's doing this, and this makes sense. Don't be confused that we didn't accept this request for an emergency procedure, but so we can procedurally do it. Azra, I suggest you ask for a break for 10 minutes on behalf of the club to multiply it and share that people know what the conclusions are, if necessary. Did you get, excellent, excellent, I apologize, I apologize, please, please, please make a statement. I'm opening a conclusion debate. Here you go. I didn't get those conclusions here. Mr. Novaković, did you ask for a word? No, I don't. So we have one suggestion of a two-point conclusion, right? Okay. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10908	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first like to say that I highly appreciate the initiative and good intentions of counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović and with this attempt to amend the law and with these conclusions. But what I'm saying is that I'm surprised by this passive attitude of the Council of Ministers on this matter. You see, the Council of Ministers formed the commission, discussed the commission's work report, looked at the problems of the late commission. Not a word of it in public. Right now, MPs, or MPs, need to take care of some of the deadlines of very important laws. Wasn't it logical for the Council of Ministers to come to Parliament today and say what problems these are in the commission's work? What should be passed by law in order for this commission to be strengthened both in quality and responsibly complete its work? We're taking over, I think, the role of one we can't take. In this way, it seems to me that we are amnesting for the Council of Ministers' negativity. And that's why, 47 in principle, I say, I'm aware of the importance of this, but in principle I can't accept this kind of work. Our MPs are proposing a census. Why does the Council of Ministers not come out with a census programme, etc., etc.? I very much appreciate, I say, these efforts, but I'm afraid we won't have the ultimate results of the effect of, to say, one painful relationship with the Council of Ministers. Better to make him responsible... even on one of these important issues than, rather than pull him out, uh, let me say, take responsibility for that unhappiness. Here's why, with all due respect to the importance of this, I won't support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10909	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Novaković and me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10910	Mr. Chairman. Since you've already opened the debate, I don't think you should have.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10911	I think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10912	Considering, I said I meant it myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10913	I say I think I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10914	Uh, I'd like to, I'd like to know on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure did you do that?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10915	I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10916	Since we've cast a vote on this, so secondly, I don't see the urgency of adopting this conclusion since it doesn't have much to do with this law. In fact, the law defines the words "31. May" replaces the words "31." December," and then we have conclusions that say the Council of Ministers is initiating negotiations with entity governments. It's not going to end until May 31st, so eventually there's a law that we would adopt, so here's the deal. So, I don't think this proposal conclusion is urgent and I suggest that an esteemed colleague propose at the next session this conclusion as it goes according to the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, we're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10917	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. 48 You see, therefore, the Club of MPs or more specifically the President of the Club, Miss Azra Hadžiahmetović, launched one initiative and made one attempt, one attempt to save the entire process of resolving the issue of state property, giving legitimate space to do these things. Of course, we didn't have, uh, understanding of that attempt and we made it impossible. I, Mr. Novaković, have allowed the conclusion to be discussed within that point of the same agenda and on the same topic. So this is kind of an alternative, etc. But I want something else, which is why I answered, so around this point two, the Council of Ministers has the power to continue the work. I'm asking the Council of Ministers, I'm going to find a way, of course, to address in writing, the responsibility of these people who have been receiving money for two years. I have information that the fee was 500, 600, 700 marks. So, people who have worked for two years and see what we're doing here. Here's what they did to, yes, that we can't get out of this business, etc., etc. So these are people who must have received 15,000 marks, so first responsibility and lawsuit, and they should be sued for criminally responsible for unfinished work. That's, that's the essence of this whole thing. Of course, I'll put this, Mr. Novaković, to the vote, you'll be against it and it's okay, no problem. All the experts did. Please, come in, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10918	I don't know, Mr. Chairman, uh, why you're talking to me like this. In fact, I challenged the business opportunity and I expected you not to address me but rather to tell me by which member of the Rules of Procedure you do so. There's no need to speak to me, and especially not to say I'm going to vote. [[Common discussion]] I have asked you as chairman to tell me by which member of the Rules of Procedure you will put this under discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10920	In the context of the debate, within this item of the agenda, because it is part of the topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10921	But we're done voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10922	We're talking about procedure. So the law is alive. It's not gonna be an emergency procedure, so we're gonna go get a match, etc., so we'll see what he gets out of, right? Maybe he'll go into a regular procedure, maybe we'll get along, see. Here you go, Azra Hadžiahmetović. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10923	So I had the need to intervene with counterpart Novaković to mention that the conclusions had been delivered to everyone before, since the beginning of today's Parliament session, therefore they were not related to the outcome of the vote. Likewise, regardless of the outcome of the vote, I ask that this Parliament be determined according to the conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10924	Thank you. Are there any more reported? If not, I'll do this, please prepare for the vote. So we are voting on the proposal for a conclusion submitted by MP Azra Hadžiahmetović – these two points are therefore the content of the conclusion. Vote now. With 21 votes for, 2 against, 13 abstentions, without enough entity majority, the proposal for conclusions did not get, did not get, that, of course, the total majority. He's going for a match. Mr. Lozančić, here he is, absent, and we can't get along right now. We'll execute later, and we'll report this home to the fate of these conclusions. So we move to point four Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on radiation and nuclear security in BiH It's about another reading. As you know, at the 5th session we had on the agenda a proposal for this law and it was then returned to the commission for further consideration and submission of a new report. So we've given room for the preservation of this law in the procedure. The Constitutional Commission submitted a new report on 24 April 2007 as a competent commission and you saw that there were new amendments at this stage, that the Commission had adopted 5 amendments in the final review. In the plenary phase, MP Lazar Prodanović submitted four amendments he wants to defend again, of course, in the plenary phase. So we are considering the proposal of this law according to the old Rules of Procedure and in the second reading. So, I'm opening a debate in the second reading. Here, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10926	I thank the chairman. For a long time, it has been working on this law in BiH and no one here can say, based on the data we received from the measurement institutions of international and domestic institutions, that this law does not need BiH. One of his plans, which came here before us, was returned to the completion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which discussed the amendments that were submitted in the meantime, and to which it gave its consent – the entity health ministry, the resolution ministry and the expert that they hired from the Resolute Ministry of Civil Affairs to determine this law. 50 However, it is obvious that the amendments proposed have not been adopted on the Constitutional Commission. Some other amendments have been adopted which, I can say, undermined the BiH Constitution and questioned the transfer of competences, and specifically in the members – Article 5, paragraph 5, with it unrespected that BiH consists of entities and that the entity's jurisdiction is a crucial issue regarding this law, which is a protection against the radiation and nuclear security of the population. On the other hand, Article 14, item 2, where it is said - that any legal person intending to carry out an activity or having a source of radiation is required to submit a request to the Agency for approval which must have the form of registration and licence - has been transferred competence from current practice to BiH as well as from entities at level 20, item 1 where it is said - that all areas of regulatory responsibility under this law are within the competence of the agencies. It is a violation of, to say, the Constitution but also the spirit of this law and of this amendment which, these amendments, these four amendments that the SNSD wants to defend again at this stage, we need and we want to return the law to constitutional bases and to what has already been agreed. Thus, which the report states here, the Constitutional Legal Commission has come up with the very essence of the law, that is its justification, especially in Article 14, paragraph 2, where it is said - that the submission of the application can only be done at the Agency's level in Sarajevo. So, so far, the submission of applications for the operation or possession of a source of radiation, specifically for those not in that matter, is mostly about private or state or social offices, which require an X-ray licence, are raised from the level of entities, i.e. the current level at the state level, or centralised at the level of the Agency in Sarajevo. Similarly, Article 20, point 1 of the inspection now no longer belongs to entities or entities, or regional offices, but belongs to the Agency which deems the economic justification which is intended to be achieved by this law. At the same time, the expert opinion of Prof. Dr. Arif Smajkić, who was at the meeting of the commission and who absolutely agreed with these amendments. It therefore called into question the agreement between the entities, between the health ministries within the Council of Ministers, but also in this Parliament. I do not want to open another issue here that is happening, especially a problem that can seriously undermine the work in this House, if it is a practice, especially in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so I will remain at this presentation and call on MPs to accept these four amendments proposed by the SNSD in the second reading, in order for BiH to get, undeniably, a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10927	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Here you go. Mr. Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10928	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Somehow lately, just when it comes to this law, me and my predecessor have quite the opposite opinions and rather the opposite arguments. I would start with one of the facts given in the guidelines on the creation of this law, which explicitly says it is the authority of the BiH state. So, as early as 2006, from the Council of Ministers, the General Secretariat sent the law into the procedure and whose explanation is that BiH, as a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency and 51 signatories, is, after a succession, a number of international conventions whose depositary is this international agency and is listed as starting with – protection against nuclear materials, nuclear accidents, nuclear radiological disasters etc., etc. not to list, and these are all the powers of the BiH state, not the entity. For these reasons, the law is absolutely necessary and there is no reason to talk and say that it falls under the authority of the entity and transfer some competences from the entity, so that before all the international agreements that arise, in fact, is international, it is competent BiH, which is also cited in the context of the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law in accordance with Article 4a of the Constitution of BiH, etc., etc. That's one thing. The other thing – the truth is that Mr. Živković had submitted this, 7 or 8 amendments, I cannot exactly say here, and I can find them, in fact, submitted exactly 8 amendments and all 8 amendments were rejected by the Atomic Energy Agency from Vienna. I have here, though in English, and the refusal of all agencies... of these amendments submitted by Mr. Živković, in fact, which he took over from earlier amendments which were on the Constitutional Commission and the commissions that worked, though not from this composition. At that time, on the Constitutional Legal Commission, Mr., and our esteemed colleague, submitted the amendments on May 5th, and on May 11th, the Constitutional Commission discussed these amendments. I must say that the Constitutional Commission then adopted the proposed 7 amendments, the 4 amendments. And that all four amendments, with the first amendment that, this, which was submitted by gentlemen, let's say, from the SNSD and individually, this, the MP who submitted this amendment, I, too, have tabled an amendment to solve this issue as painlessly as possible, and this amendment has actually been adopted in something amended, something modified. And it literally reads this: A regional office in Republika Srpska, based in Banja Luka and the Federation of BiH, based in Mostar, is established within the Agency. So it was made sure that we found certain compromise solutions that were actually adopted and accepted. Now, as far as Mr. Arif Smajkić's expert is concerned, I have my own opinion again, which doesn't have to be true, but I will finally put it out, first he explains, in fact he didn't even address the ministry, but addressed it, he said, as co-ordinator, the opinion on the amendments, Mr. Sredoje Nović, BiH Civilian Minister. And by explaining the first amendment, which was submitted, he overstepped his powers and entered into a matter that is not the position of experts or could be the position of experts, that is, that is, in an explanation to accept these offices, administrative offices from the Agency. He goes on and says, "These offices should be called entity offices, not regional ones, because the term region is currently not used in the political territorial organisation of BiH, which is not its jurisdiction and it cannot be decided on, cannot be proposed, it is clear as a day that it has exceeded its powers. Secondly, following the amendments that the gentleman then stated, I must say, I must say that his particular reasons are also contrary, in contrast to the Agency, this, from Vienna, and the English name of the Agency is, that is, their answers to certain amendments here I have, which are, in fact, particularly on the amendment, to Amendment 5 and Amendment 7 which is today submitted by this gentleman, it seems to me that PetrovićProdanović or I don't know, I apologize, if I say, where I am told, as far as I understand English, that these amendments are being rejected and that they are not in accordance with the intensities that atomic energy agency has, and that it has not been commented by an expert, but it has just said that they are good. So he cheated and deceived certain members of the commission, including members of the SDS. 52 I ask that of the Agency, because it was a requirement that both the Agency, this, get certain... I ask that this translation be provided to the MPs, and that responsibility be taken to those who, in a different way, have been interpreted, means including the Ministry of Civil Affairs. And now, so, when we've all adopted the amendments, four adopted by the gentleman who's... the amendment and one of mine, I have to say again, who's changed a little bit, on my initiative because I've submitted the amendment, now the new amendments are coming. Remember that on 11 May she was the Commission for Constitutional Affairs. I am now asking a question of one legitimacy in general of those amendments that have come today... because the stage of giving constitutional amendments has been the past. So it's a matter that we need to make known and determine the facts. And another thing I want to say is, if we talk about certain amendments, today's amendments, you have here, gentlemen of the amendment, you have amendments that are actually, which are already embedded in the Constitutional Commission proposal, even an explanation of the experts, which I've slightly criticized, we'll say about Amendment 3, and this amendment is acceptable with the direct communication of the entity health ministries with the Agency. And that's true. The Department of Health, we adopted it, can directly communicate with the Agency, it can't be banned by anyone, uh, that agency... And as for the amendment which explicitly says, Article 5. The Law on radiation and nuclear disease changes so that entity offices for Republika Srpska are established within the Agency... The Federation, etc. And these aren't entity offices, these are the offices of the Atomic Energy Agency that we're setting up here or for the nuclear one, as we call it, I wouldn't go, they're not entity offices. That the gentleman had submitted an amendment on that day, to put it there, to put it there, for example. Offices in Republika Srpska entity or whoever they want are established within the Agency, so I would accept that amendment because I responded to this amendment which he accepted with what I thought, and today I believe that these offices in the entity, whether in Banja Luka or in Mostar, should benefit those who serve them, and that means that it is improved that people can handle certain things, uh, these offices. Why shouldn't I, for example? or someone else because Banja Luka, uh, just 80km from Sarajevo, why can't we stand in that office, uh, in Banja Luka, is a certain, certain submission when it's, okay, but if it insists on being entity offices that can't be, because the Atomic Energy Agency has strictly said that it's not the entity's jurisdiction, then normally it can't be accepted, it can't be adopted. That's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, And a third thing. Amendment 3, submitted today by Mr., uh, Prodanović Lazar, the esteemed Prodanović Lazar, Amendment 3, is, in fact, the amendment that Mr. Živković submitted as Article 5, as Amendment 5, which has strictly rejected the Atomic Energy Agency from Vienna. Likewise, Amendment 4 which he proposes today, which is, it is, a member... and this is the same amendment that was under Mr. Živković's 6th point, which the Atomic Energy Agency has completely rejected. Therefore, the compromise is made. There's no reason why this law isn't passed today. I am asking a certain question here: what are the teachers doing for Serbian, for Bosnian, for the Croatian language that exists in this Parliament. So you know that it is not a set of sentences of the language of the Yugoslav peoples and of the English language that it is not identical. It's said in us if something is someone's, it can only be his. So the Agency can have its office in an entity, but it can't be an entity office because it's not, it's from the Agency's office. And that's why I'm asking, since the Constitutional Commission has worked very hard on this, on this, on this amendment, with all due respect, and adopted of the 7 proposed amendments 53 submitted by Mr. Prodanović, four amendments have been adopted, so all the 4 amendments he has proposed at the time were adopted except for amendments 5 and 7 which were then, and now they are 3 and 4, which, in fact, we can't adopt because it's not in the entity's jurisdiction. It's in the jurisdiction of the Agency at national level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10929	Thank you, Mr. Ajanović. Here's a replica and an incorrect quote. Mr. Živković, we have an application for Mr. Džaferović's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10930	We'll take the order. In fact, if you remember, on the proposal of the College in the second phase, we have returned the 8 amendments themselves, i.e. with me there are 7 which I have proposed to the Constitutional Commission. But at the time, I did not say that these amendments would go towards the Agency for Nuclear Energy in Vienna, nor did I accept that they would be my amendments, but these amendments on the Constitutional Commission itself have been modified by Mr Lazar Prodanović. I no longer had anything to do with these amendments, and you didn't have to ask the Agency for Nuclear Safety from Vienna to determine according to these amendments. That was too high and wrong. On the other hand, if you have already received answers, I think it would be good if all MPs had received these answers even if it were in English as you have received answers from the expert Professor. Smajkić gave it to all of you. Therefore, you present documents that you did not deal with when you were on the Constitutional Commission. We didn't discuss these documents and that attitude in Vienna. When you talk about entity offices or whose jurisdiction is in BiH, I do not think it has to be true, that this is the entity's jurisdiction and that entities can agree that part of their jurisdiction, which is in their interest, and it is undeniable that it is in the interests of both the Republika Srpska and the Federation but also BiH to transfer some of its competence to BiH so that it can classify, systematise and bring dialogue to international organisations on the issue. And that's where we differ from that story that we think BiH can function as a decentralised country where there's no need for everything other than institutions, here we have even come and made a compromise that the headquarters of this agency is in Sarajevo even though it didn't have to be in Sarajevo. It could have been in any city in BiH. We agreed that the headquarters of this agency should be in Sarajevo and that the agencies that work at the level of the entities in Mostar and Banja Luka remain in place. On the other hand, the licence application, Mr Ajanović, treats Article 14, paragraph 2. – any legal person who has to perform... is required to submit a request to the Agency, the Agency, which is under this law, is a administrative organisation in Sarajevo and is subject to an application. This means from Mostar and Trebinj the application is submitted in Sarajevo, not to apply in Banja Luka or Mostar. And that's what you've derivated in the first place the desire for this law to be economically justified. And we are looking at this place to do this in this way, by correcting the little law, what is already being done in BiH is only being verified, with BiH having and getting a law that works. If he turned out that in the next year he wasn't functional to anyone... 54 to this agency that we would then have to submit its observations to this law and propose that it be formed differently in BiH, and in this way, if we are exclusive in these positions, I think we will not be able to have the law, which is the greatest damage for everyone in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10931	Thank you, Mr. Živković. We have a report for the discussion of Šefik Džaferović and Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10932	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. There have been a lot of speeches here on the work of the Constitutional Commission, so I have a need to say a few sentences on the work of the Constitutional Commission and on the law itself, yes, on radiation and nuclear security in BiH. First, the Constitutional Commission is working in accordance with the procedures adopted by this Parliament and therefore there is no deviation from these procedures as this House does under the procedures provided for by the Constitution and as provided for by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10933	Please, a little quieter, pay respects to each other. Please, people, don't talk, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10934	Now, I wouldn't be talking right now, I wouldn't be talking about procedures right now, they have to be respected and applied until they change, and it's a whole other thing that's more problematic. Is it more problematic to make a decision with most votes than those present, too, knowing that sensitive issues are protected by these sensitive issues, or is it more normal to make a decision by not voting out of 42 people only 5 people, so that a decision is made again. It's a decision that there's no decision. So those are open questions. We will conduct discussions long and wide in this country, and I would ask you, therefore, that until you change the procedures under which the Constitutional Commission is working, do not talk about how the Constitutional Commission works and the procedures it implements. Then when they're hurt, here we are, so go ahead, gentlemen. So that's one thing. It's another thing. It is clear, therefore, that today we have a new course towards the state of BiH when SNSD and its policy is at hand. It's seen from the mass of the law, it's seen from the mass of procedures we've had so far, it's seen from this law. The law came to parliamentary procedure on 03.08.2006, dated to the Council of Ministers, in 04.08.2006, it was laid down in the BiH Parliament. On 13 September 2006, the Constitutional Commission unanimously supported the principles of the proposed law, found that Momčilo Novaković submitted 1 amendment, and after the debate and vote, the commission unanimously accepted the amendment. I repeat the word unanimously, and afterwards, the Commission unanimously adopted the text of the Law on Radio and Nuclear Security in BiH 55, as proposed by the Council of Ministers with the amendment tabled, and found that the proposed law is necessary to adopt, and to agree before the publication of the text with a single programme for the making of legal rules in BiH institutions. I repeat unanimously. In the Constitutional Commission, of course, representatives were sitting to paint the structure of this Parliament and this law, which was in the original text, as it was otherwise agreed on by the Council of Ministers and the Atomic Energy Agency, so unanimously on 13 September 2006 supported by the Constitutional Commission. There was no time for him to come to Parliament in an earlier term. He came into a new council and in a new council, because of this turn that I was talking about, and that's what's going to be discussed in this country one day, so the amendments came and we showed our willingness to see what we can do with these amendments, that we have the law because, therefore, it's perfectly clear that this country needs this law and there's no dilemma about it. You've hired us at one of the last sessions to complete three laws and trust me that, uh, it was harder to do that than all this regular work that we had as a Constitutional Commission. And thank Bog we finished the concession law, you got the report, it's on the agenda today. The Higher Education Act has been completed, a report will be signed today, the sekretarijat has completed the commission's report, and here we have this law. In this law, therefore, a step has been made in relation to the original text of the law, and on the basis of what is required in the amendment. True, the amendment is not entirely accepted, and for the following reasons. Mr. Prodanović's amendment, so you're right, these are the amendments of our colleague's gentleman, the commission member, Mr. Prodanović. Therefore, the key amendment referred to Article 5, the position of the 5th law, which says – for the sake of a more rational and efficient performance of operations, the Agency can organise work through organisational units and outside the headquarters of the Agency in entities and Brcko District. This is the original text of the law. The colleague's amendment asked that the position reads: "The Agency's entity offices for Republika Srpska based in Banja Luka and for the Mostar-based Federation of BiH are established." The amendment was not accepted in this form but was submitted by counterpart Ajanović, and then the commission accepted the amendment, which reads: "The Agency establishes regional offices in Republika Srpska based in Banja Luka and the Mostar-based Federation of BiH." Here, as the daily speech put it, is the point of whether the letter is "in" or the letter "yes". We accepted this first formulation that the headquarters of these offices in Republika Srpska's entity is in Banja Luka and that the headquarters of the BiH Federation office in Mostar, and we did not show the entity offices based here and here, for the second entity based here and here. Why? Because if this text is adopted, it will not be possible by a regulation on an organisation that will follow this law to make a normal passage within this institution that should function, I agree with you, Mr Živković, as an institution of BiH. And then it won't be possible for citizens, the Agency will make a rule that will make these two branch units, two offices. If we say it is for the Republika Srpska Office, then a citizen from Bihac will, in order to apply, because the Agency will deploy its work in its branch units, not everyone, will not have to come to Sarajevo to apply, but, for the sake of citizens, it will be somewhere on the ground, that citizens can communicate with its organisational parts. Then a citizen from Bihac, in order to apply, will have to go to Mostar, a citizen from Trebinj will have to go to Banja Luka if it is for the entity, because Bihac is not in Republika Srpska or Trebinje's entity is Federation 56 BiH. I've cited this as examples. And the problem is, there's no other problem. Next problem that's coming up. You are looking for the amendments submitted here, a respected colleague of Prodanović, that the reports in the relations of this entity's office are practically placed, least said, in a competitive relationship with the Agency. Then the question is, what is the Agency, and what are these offices? What you asked for with the amendment is granted. So a regional office was created in Republika Srpska, Banja Luka. That structure that works today, there are transitional and final provisions, the Council of Ministers will sort it out, there are, therefore, the positions they need to remain. And in this way it was granted the basic request that you asked for, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it enabled the normal functioning of this Agency. I didn't see, I must, therefore, be honest, open, I must, before this report is made and the original position written in English by the International Atomic Energy Agency, which I have now managed to examine, and I can tell you that in that report it says that the amendments that have been submitted should not be accepted because they affect functionality, here let Doctor Genjac show us, he will discuss, I have seen it now, as he calls it, but here we have passed, and we have accepted several amendments to be on the trail of what you last spoke of. Therefore, I ask you, therefore, that this is an important law, we have had enough, several times this has been debated on the Constitutional Commission. You've had enough hearing, uh, let's, uh, let's accept, uh, after all the vote on the commission was so, I think, I think, here's some fellow IDs if I'm wrong, as far as I remember the representatives of the Republika Srpska weren't against but were restrained when, when voted, uh, about this law. Let's, yes, let's get to this law, I think this tightening of our relationship with these responsibilities, that it doesn't lead us anywhere. Otherwise, we're going to have to open a story about this, and until we untangle it, here you see, Mr Belkić is rightly angry, we're doing three and a half, four hours today, the previous parliament we did just as much, the result, as it says here, zero points. There's nothing, I mean for nothing, we grind for nothing. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10935	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Mr. Genjac. And there's a replica, there's a replica, a little patience, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Živković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10936	I think the very important things here that Mr. Džaferović pulled and then we figure out that we're probably going to go to this job a lot faster. One way to solve this is the next item of the agenda, and as you can see with that agenda point, with regard to the Framework Law on Preschool Education, there will be no problem. There will be no problem if we can agree in BiH that a minimum of what needs to be done towards the European Union and international standards should be passed on by entities to BiH's jurisdiction, not all of what people think in reforms to put on BiH's level by making it a centralist country. That is 57 differences in what you said and what we think should and how BiH should look in the future and how these laws can be passed. Also, I couldn't find in this law what you were saying about a license, or applying to regional offices because if you honestly thought that, then there's no reason not to adopt our amendment where it says: - every legal person who intends to perform... there's a source of radiation required to submit to the Agency or entity office. We're not saying who's going to decide about it, and so, and that would be controversial, if this amendment were to be accepted, where it was given the possibility in law, not that someone would solve it with sublegal acts the way he thought it would. I'm just asking that the law put it so that the entity offices can file that request. Is that too controversial? Is it disputed that the inspection, which is now in the jurisdiction of these entity agencies, remains at entity level and is doing its job, or is it also necessary from Sarajevo to tell them that they should be working in Banja Luka, Mostar. Here we are trying to think, is it too controversial to get into the law? And the rest of this, uh, we'll probably have time to negotiate in BiH as well. The fact is, you also talked about the Law on Higher Education, that is, the Framework Law on Higher Education, which is very important, I hope that we will find common language here, but we need to say, to respect, compromise, to go to what minimum in BiH can be agreed on. I know that even in constitutional changes, police structures and other reforms, anyone would want the most, but I think the solution is that, about what minimum we can agree on, that in this way we need to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10937	Thank you, Mr. Živković. We have two replicas, so, sir, so he signed up and Izetbegović for the replica, right? So, we have the replica Izetbegović, just a little bit, just a little bit, a replica of Džaferović, a replica of Denis Bećirović, a replica of Mr Kalabić, a Prodanović replica. Is there any more replicas I can write? Here's the conclusion of the replica application. We have two, four, five replicas. There will be 15 of them, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10938	So, some capricious insistence that the government of Sarajevo, that some hegemony here, uh, be made senseless from Sarajevo or that the entity, uh, at any cost, should certainly not be forward. We need to make an efficient system to protect ourselves, this time from nuclear waste, right, so we have one police that will protect us from criminals, from this, drug trafficking, human trafficking, etc. Every time there's a compromise between the two of them. Everything that is effective, and remains on the entity, has no problem at all, but it is not effective for a man from Nevessinj to go to Banja Luka or a man from Bihac to go to Sarajevo. It should be done there... but do not insist, I mean, on an entity principle because, I say, it is not effective to travel from Trebinj up to, on, to northern Banja Luka or from Bihać, instead of to Banja Luka, to go to Mostar or to Sarajevo.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10939	Thank you. Let's take it in a row, Džaferović. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10940	Dear colleague Živković, therefore, everything I say, so I say seriously, you know, at least I'm trying to make it so in this Parliament, and what I'm saying, I'm really serious, so I meant it and I'm serious. Only so much when it comes to my relationship and my approach to work. So that's one thing. Another thing, if you followed me closely, there is practically no difference between us, if, therefore, our goals are to make the citizens of this country better. I said the Agency would have to adopt its own internal organisation and how it works, and certainly I advocate that a citizen from Banja Luka does not have to come to Sarajevo to apply for a request, that he can do so in that office. I am certainly in favour of the fact that a citizen from Bihac can come to Banja Luka and together as a citizen from Banja Luka apply in the same office for a certain request. But for that, a law should be made to enable the adoption of such a rule. If you say in the law that it is the Republika Srpska office based in Banja Luka or the Federation of BiH Offices based in Mostar, then you are the Council of Ministers, who will bring that regulation tied hands and did not enable what you and I, I hope both you and I, together want people not to have to travel, to be able to realize, uh, their needs and their rights. That's all I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10941	Thank you. Replica, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10942	I also have a replica for my colleagues, Džaferović, from the SDA and my colleagues, Živković, from the SNSD. Given that we are on the agenda – the proposal for a law on radiation and nuclear security in BiH, I would ask them to stop bothering both the public of BiH and this Parliament with stories of jurisdiction and to start doing what they agreed on and signed to do. There is something in this country called political and moral responsibility. You signed on January 3rd of this year an agreement to do something in this country. It is obvious that you do not implement anything under this agreement and do not bother here and at Parliament, if you cannot at the College and elsewhere agree, transfer your disputes and confuse people and the public in BiH. Either you're working or you're retreating.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10943	Is that a replica, Denise?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10944	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10945	Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10946	Let me finish it, and I'll tell you whether or not it's a replica. You are, you are one package here, you voted here for each other. All of you voted whether, from the SNSD SDA and SNSD ministers from the SDA and the BiH Party, etc. I really want to say that you should start doing what you signed to do. And don't misinformed the public with statements, says zero points. It eats zero points, or for someone. For those of you who act as parliamentary majority, and all of us in this House do not want to be held accountable because the very strong parliamentary majority does not do what it has agreed to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10947	Thank you. Replica Kalabić. Mr. Džaferović, they're waiting for people, so it's Denis' turn, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10948	So, Mr. Bećirović, a young colleague. I do not bother the public, I defend the report of the Constitutional Commission on a specific matter and never again treat me, treat me the way you have done it now, and I call on you in this House to be polite. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10949	I didn't give you my word, Mr. Bećirović. Are you answering, of course I'll give it to you, just don't get up before I give you my word, slowly.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10950	Did you give your word now?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10951	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10952	Thank you. This is to tell Mr. Džaferović that there is no need to use the term of a young colleague in a pesulative sense. In this parlement, no one is in favour of being an old or young colleague, but because they chose him or did not elect citizens. And in this particular case, I am one of the 42 MPs in this House or one of the three who received the largest number of votes from BiH citizens and as such I am acting in this Parliament. And right to tell you, it's not my fault either, but there's no need to call ourselves young, middle or old colleagues that way. And I repeat again what I just told you, and I told you not to do what you agreed to do and not to implement the agreement you signed. And if it bothers you, Mr. Džaferović, it's your problem, it's not mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10953	Let's move on. Mr. Kalabić - replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10954	I agree that the opposition has the right to stand and to criticise, but Mr Bećirović forgot that he wanted to be a part of this, to try to, when you sit on the bench then you have to be patient and disciplined, you can't come in later if you're not on the bench good, so you wanted to play in this majority, but so maybe someday you'll play so don't get too hard on how things will continue. Another thing about the Constitutional Commission and the views of Mr Džaferović. Mr. Džaferović, the BiH state is not a tarab stuck on a hill somewhere, so when we can't agree on something, look in the hill at what a tarab looks like, so that's it. The state is a living organism with all its good and bad flaws, it pulses, and BiH will pulse as we agree. And he won't be able to pulse without a deal. Nowhere does it say how it should be or how it has to be, but it's the only way we can work it out. And when we make a deal, it says how it should be. I absolutely accept, in advance, that what is currently written, everything that is written in procedures, that we absolutely respect. Here's the big guy. Let's respect him. But at one point, procedures are in place, and in another, there's some undefined power centers that we need to guess what the state looks like. We call upon citizens and care for citizens and that they should be, gentlemen, as you think all and one citizen of Nevesinj is running to Sarajevo to bring a certain document. If it is the will of the citizens to bring this document to Banja Luka, it is their will. From where it's supposed to be like that. And why in this country we've led to this situation that it is and that no matter how strange or normal the decision of those citizens may seem to us, but she is. It is legitimate and it must be respected, not assumed by their opposite will and desire that is not true. I have to say, don't call on things that aren't true. If we're talking about arguments, then they have to be checked. Today we offered a story about the census, to check out a certain situation in BiH that we are now guessing, and so it is, and so it is, and so it is here. If people want to, and we want to guess what they want, at least let's do these things. And the procedure, too. We have a deal to make. If we're going to make any further arrangements to honor what's agreed on. And I'm absolutely up for it. All the procedures you've done to the constitutional committees in the Constitution of BiH, in the constitutions of entities and everything else, to honor that. To honor that. And about everything and absolutely that goes along with agreeing to amend those procedures. And once we've made a deal, we'll respect it again. Because, gentlemen, if we take down any procedures now, who guarantees to some future generations that they will not destroy what we agree to. There must be some normal behavior in all of this, and we've come to this situation to say, and when we disagree, that we behave normally, that we agree on that disagreement. And there must be a certain agreement on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10955	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. Wait a minute. A little patience. I've already reported one replica. The man's waiting. Eh, if it's a discussion, let's go, Mr. Bećirović. Did you, Selima Bešlagić, answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10956	I want to tell Mr. Kalabić not to deceive the public with the the thesis that we wanted to play, is it, in this parliamentary majority. The SDP's position is very clear. We are a political party that will never run away from responsibility. Therefore, we will not run 61 nor from participation in the executive government, but before the formation of this government today and always say that we want to do so exclusively when the parliamentary majority is educated in the common denominator, when we have a clear joint programme, a political willingness to implement this programme, the exact deadlines and the business bearers. And that's something quite different from how Mr. Kalabić, Mr. Kalabić, wanted to present it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10957	Thank you. We have a replica. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. We have Mr. Ajanović, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10958	I'd like to replicate this esteemed colleague of mine, Kalabić, with only one thing that is not so, uh, I'm asking only one question. First, the amendments tabled on 05.05.2007 and the first amendment reads – a regional RS office based in Banja Luka and the Federation in BiH based in Mostar is established within the Agency. And 11.05 says -- entity offices for RS based in Banja Luka and the Mostar-based Federation of BiH are being established within the Agency. Since this 2205 is not a transfer of jurisdiction and this, May 5th is not a transfer of jurisdiction and May 11th is a transfer of jurisdiction and the same amendment. The exact same amendment that was actually adopted on the Constitutional Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10959	Here, are you looking for a break, Mr. Raguž? Well, if you're looking for a break,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10960	I'm not asking for a break because I'm trying to be as rational as you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10961	I even support you, here, if you're looking for a break, I'll give it to you right now for lunch, an hour. No problem, just please, officially ask me to take a break, I'll give it right away. An hour's lunchtime. Great, break an hour. [[PAUZA]] Before the break, I had, at least according to my records, registered for the replica of Denis Bećirović, Kalabić Drago, Prodanović Lazar, and for the discussion I had Mr. Halid Genjac. I'm sorry, Prodanović was up for discussion, right? Not for the replica, for the discussion. So, two discussions, two replicas. Here you go, giving up. Mr. Drago? He's giving up. Discussions? Prodanović. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10963	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members, I, regardless of all this time we have spent agreeing on the Law on radiation nuclear activity, security in BiH, very much respect your position with some of the previous sessions to return this material to the Constitutional Commission, so to the competent commission, to try to find agreement in the amendments. I also believe that the Constitutional Commission, uh, has sought as much as possible to reach a minimum of common consensus on consent in this law. I was in a position to submit on behalf of the SNSD Club additional amendments that I will defend in this second phase. I'm thinking, I'm deeply convinced that these amendments don't change the law at all. So BiH gets a law on radiation nuclear security, gets an extremely significant institution, an agency that stems from this law. As you are aware that the powers of the BiH Health Area towards the Constitution are absolute in the jurisdiction of the entity, we are certainly all interested in the issue of raiding security and nuclear security from radiation and nuclear security, necessary to regulate in accordance with the requirements of both the EU and the state level. Bringing the law is good news. I think it's good news and good news in BiH. The formation of the agency as an administrative organisation, so as a central institution in BiH, is a very important step. BiH has been facing someone, at least as the media writes, the orders of neighbouring countries to be part of nuclear waste, i.e. the disposal of nuclear waste in the immediate vicinity of it, this location, which is not in line with international conventions. BiH needs installation, installation of a device to measure radiation performance at border crossings. I think we need to take another step to adopt this. We've proposed amendments and I'll try, I apologize for being something longer. I am convinced that these amendments do not essentially change the law. So I'm going to be in a situation where I have to read them as a whole. I'll tell you about Article 5. He, therefore, in his current opinion – the Agency is an independent administrative organisation. The agency exercises its powers under the direct supervision of the BiH Council of Ministers. The agency is independent of other government and non-governmental agencies and legal entities involved in pro... radiation technologies, the Agency's headquarters is in Sarajevo. And we suggest, therefore, behind, in Article 5, Section 5. The law on raiding and nuclear security in BiH is being amended, it is being added, and it is being changed – within the Agency, therefore, entity offices for RS based in Banja Luka and for the Mostar-based Federation of BiH are being established. The first position of Article 5 derogates any suspicion of independence, the jurisdiction of the offices. The working legal status of employees in these entity offices is absolutely within the Agency and the most direct commander for their execution, whatever obligations are ultimately the Agency's director. That's about Article 2. As for Article 10, we added, I absolutely don't understand why this is a problem, that the entity health ministries can require the Agency and the entity offices that are part of it again, so, the office and the Agency delivers data from their work cycle. 63 Article 3, in point 2 behind the words – The Agency, words are added – and the entity office. And in Amendment IV, in Article 20, behind the words – the Agency, words are added – and entity offices. Everyone, with a minimum legal education, must understand that the entity office of each of its alleged executions will be in line with the Agency's request. I believe that we have all the, uh, possibilities and conditions that this law, by accepting these amendments, declare this law. I have already said that we have a positive opinion from the coordinator of scientific... co-operation with the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, the esteemed professor of Dr Arif Smajkić(?) We have a positive view of the ministry on these amendments. It would be a shame if, if these amendments don't pass, the law doesn't pass. I don't think SNSD can accept part of the responsibility for this. Once again, if we want to differ in some finesse, if we want to conflict, if we want to say how much less laws we can pass here, how much we won't do, then we can act like one. We need to find a part of the compromise. Whether in six months, if in 10 months, if after the amendment of the Constitution we will have amendments, or the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to this law, I don't think that's at all controversial. We today can pass a law with a minimum of concessions towards each other and a minimum compromise and we can not bring it, say it's an obstructive factor and that it's a constructive factor. Defacto I think we're all a destructive factor in this kind of behavior and I'm asking you to have understanding in that sense. I think the biggest of all of this is having a law in BiH on raiding and nuclear security and having the Agency through this. Any other story that does not conform, if considered not, will have to be legally sanctioned or repaired by certain members of this law that has been passed. Thank you very much. Finally, the Agency shall, by means of its rules, regulate all its organisation and the same mentioned, therefore, by the competent, or by the Council of Ministers whose founder is the same, shall seek an explanation if any interference exists. Republika Srpska, I want to say this, we have no idea that we have the authority of these important segments, but I think we have an obligation to have an office in this country both in one place and in another where it is central and that we respect it. There is not nearly the capacity for BiH to perform such significant segments. I'll tell you something else, since I'm a health care worker, there's no story here whether we want this or not. Here's a battle for a pharmaceutical medical lobby that's going to get anything more where it comes from and giving licenses or consent to buy some appliances. And in that story, we can talk whatever we want, I'm behind it. This is the same story as the Drug Act. I don't want to cause controversy about this, but about this honestly, we can tell if this is one way or another, I know that the Agency will never issue any order in Banja Luka, or Banja Luka, or Mostar unless it has the consent of the Agency or the Management Board or how it is organised. So any other story can only be in this one. We're gonna waste our time again. I think I very much appreciate you having chaired this by returning it to the Commission, the Commission's work. But I think we can do this with a little shift right now. Maybe it's nakaradic, but it's a lot more that we don't have this. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10964	Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10965	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, this isn't a replica of a colleague to Prodanović. I really have no intention of replicating him, but in view of his discussion, maybe we should just explain a few things. So this is a call for discussion. I, therefore, see that there is a good will for us to get to the law, but the way he proposes, I think that if we go that way that we'll make confusion in the law itself. All this is exactly what Mr. Prodanović was talking about. The agency is an independent administrative organization, no one's slowing it down. The Agency shall exercise its powers under the direct supervision of the Council of Ministers. The Agency is independent of other government and non-governmental agencies and legal entities involved in the prolonging of R & D technologies. The agency headquarters in Sarajevo, all of these are undeniable provisions that no one refutes. And then now, therefore, there's the idea that she has her own offices in the field. And now the problem is whether by forming these offices, we're going to create three agencies and break down, in fact, this agency or if it's going to be one agency that's going to have offices in the field that are under her jurisdiction and jurisdiction. If we say, therefore, in Article 5 that it's for a certain space, then that's already the problem. But here we go. We are now going on to the amendments proposed by Mr. Prodavnović, so it is said, in Article 10, which reads – at the request of the Agency executive, administrative and other bodies of entities and cantons, and the Brcko District are obliged to provide data, report and other documentation from the work domain and responsibility of the Agency. And here it is said -- the entity health ministry may require the Agency and the entity offices to deliver data from their work cycle, so, agencies and entity offices from their work. There's no problem that it says here that the entity health ministries are their opinions, this isn't the Commission's position or my club's position, we haven't talked about it yet, this is my individual opinion. So, there's no interference on my part, so it's my opinion that this is where it says that entity ministries can heal, I can ask the Agency, if I tell the agency, then everything is understood. Therefore, I can require the Agency to supply the data. No problem. Why can't the entity health departments do that? But the Agency, we can't tell the agencies and entity offices because then we evened them out. Because entity offices are part of the Agency. Or, for example, in Article 14, in paragraph 2, behind the words - the Agency, words are added - or the entity office. Article 14, paragraph 2, says - any legal person intending to carry out an activity or to operate or own a source of radiation is required to submit a request to the Agency for approval which must have a form of registration or licence. And here it is said - behind the Agency, therefore, - can apply to the Agency or to the entity office. Be careful, this word – or, it practically equates the Agency and the entity office. We can say, he can file a request through the Agency in the headquarters or through the regional office. And you know who's handling it. To avoid this, to man this, which was spoken of by Mr. Živković. It's a matter of internal organization, but if it insists, but then it can, in my opinion, therefore, think it's going this way. 65 Or Amendment IV, which in my opinion is, therefore, this, in all this is very problematic. It says in Article 20. – in Article 20 of the amendment, says in point 1, behind the words – The Agency, words are added – and entity offices. Be careful now, in Article 20, paragraph 1 is said – all areas of regulatory responsibility, under this law, be careful now, all areas of regulatory responsibility under this law are in the jurisdiction of the Agency, in which the inspection for raiding and nuclear security is made up. And it is proposed that the text - all areas of regulatory responsibility under this law are in the jurisdiction of the Agency and the entity offices. Watch out. Agency and entity jurisdiction, that's three agencies. Three institutions. That's the problem, then. And then we did what we did in law. Then in law, we've done something that won't be enforceable. Article 5 contains everything I've been saying. The Agency shall be an independent administrative organisation. Here through these members, we are practically making unconsistent, we are discussing the provision of Article 5 through the further text of the law. I'm not running away, therefore, that everything that's going to be in the system of the agency and helping people on the ground, if the aim of these amendments is to help people on the ground is to be installed into this and there's room to look for a solution on that trail. But if it is going to be offices that will practically be agencies and are unconsistently reflected through the further text of the law compared to Article 5, paragraph 1, then it becomes a problem. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10966	Thank you. Here's something like a replica, right? Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10967	Since an ex post discussion on amendments can also be made under replica, I will use this right to face my opinion of what Mr. Džaferović said. So we have two problems here. One problem is how the agency is organized and another problem is what entities agencies do. We have several agencies in BiH. We also have the Statistics Agency, you know, but we also have the Office for Statistics in BiH, and the Statistics Agency was only given to coordinate the work, to publish data from whose original data creators are institutions for RS statistics. The law could also be established in a way that only has an agency for radiation nuclear security in BiH that only collects data that will be produced by agencies that already exist at entity level. We suggest that we take a step further, give this agency the opportunity to, in addition to storing these data, publish them and talk to the international community, there are already agencies in place that work. And these amendments are allowed, so it's a step beyond what we have with some other agencies like the Statistics Agency. Isn't that enough to say here in BiH that we can make it? It's already working and there's nothing controversial about it. That is all we frame in the framework of the law with these amendments and bring into what can continue to work in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10968	Thank you, Mr. Živković. 66 There's more. I owe it to Mr. Genjac, who's been applying for discussion for a long time. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10969	Thank you. I'm in a dilemma whether or not to give up, but I'll try to sum up as much as possible to say what's important, which may not be said. Uh, let me remind you. So, since '95. Bosnia is a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency. And as such a mandatory and signatories of a series of agreements and contracts according to the subsidiary principle applicable to that agency. The whole series of agreements, meaning the agreements that BiH has accepted and signed, means all these conventions and agreements mean that BiH must ensure the existence of state law, the first principle that will regulate the area of radiation of nuclear security radiation both on normative and then before the law, and the establishment of a single regulatory body, or agency. And this obligation has been carried out by all the countries in the world except BiH. So there is no possibility of comparison with other agencies and other bodies here. There are international standards here and three of those standards of law, principles and a single regulatory principle by one body, those international standards under which you cannot go. The very harsh comments on the previous amendments were in the sense that there was unclear coordination between the state agency and existing bodies in entities, now as the issue is being problemed, two issues are being raised. One question is functionality and another question of jurisdiction. When it comes to functionality, it is said that it would be functional to allow on the ground to work etc. And I agree. However, the principle that the field office is forming for RS is not the principle of functionality or the Federation. So he says, we had a good discussion, some of us are gonna want to go to Banja Luka, I respect it. And it should, in Banja Luka's office, want someone from Gacko to go to Banja Luka, but what about those from Bihac who don't want to cross the road to Sarajevo, they want to stop by the nearest office in Banja Luka, too, should be made possible by him. So allow this guy from Gacko if he wants to go to Banja Luka, and this guy from Bihac to go to Banja Luka, so. That would be the principle of functionality and the principle of respect for desires. So, if that's what we're talking about. But obviously, if we're not fooling ourselves, it's not the principle of functionality, other things are in question, to be open. It's about jurisdiction. The question, this famous issue that is being promoted, and when it comes to jurisdiction, we are not a country that is going to pulse and pulsing depending on the will of one and the other, in this question we are a country that will pulse like all European countries in a way that respects certain principles and respects all the members of the European Union and those who are candidates, because there is no other principle. And that involves the existence of a state-level agency, a single agency, an independent agency, a political independent agency that has all the regulatory powers in its body, in its being. So it's not possible to talk about this principle either. Is it possible to satisfy some of the ideas that we've heard here and is it possible to do this as far as we've come at this stage of compromise to make another 67 compromises to satisfy this and to satisfy some ambitions? I think it's worth a try and I suggest here, yes, yes, let's postpone this point, the plea until the next session. Maybe there's a possibility. A kolega of Prodanović, why should the Agency's agency not have medical institutions authorised if representatives of both entities and representatives of all peoples are sitting in Sarajevo, why not? Why should that decision not be taken in Sarajevo, because it is wanted by international standards or where it is based by the agency, it is sought by international standards and why, if all citizens and all peoples and all entities are represented here, too. I think it would be worth, uh, since a huge job was done, if there was more space, maybe some clarifications, because really this
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10970	A little attention, please, patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10971	So what these four amendments are all about is how they're formulated. If it is said both to the agency or to the entity office, then it is given in the same plane, therefore, it is possible for both bodies to have these, and competences. No, it's not possible to formulate it in accordance with Article 5. It is necessary to seek a solution to how it is possible to formulate it and how it continues. So, on the trail of what's said, I think there's room for compromise and I think there's a business possibility, it's our sovereign will to decide to leave the possibility more for the talks and to postpone the plea for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10972	Here, we heard an idea. Here you go, Mr. Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10973	It's just a replica. First of all, I would like to say that all amendments have been made in accordance with the opinion of the expert who, I will only say the final part – the amendments have been very useful and have significantly improved the proposed text of the Law on radiation and nuclear security in BiH. Secondly, if BiH gets a comment from the International Nuclear Energy Agency in Vienna, this law is not in line with these amendments or anything else. What do you think we're going to do other than make, uh, changes? So far, we have not received any warning in this regard, therefore, officially, either. And secondly, to my esteemed schoolmate and colleague Halid Genjac, let me say who said that, who said that in the first place, where someone would be able to make, uh, the right to apply. So do you think that the way the agency works will be decided by the Federal Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia. Come on, don't be silly, but you're forcing us to be humiliated in every story, to say, well, here's what you're doing, to be destructive, and none of this is said, not a single thing. What do you think the RS Health Minister will be able to order the director of the agency and the Council of Ministers of BiH. Well, they don't think we're half-witted to the point where we think we can do 68 orders right now. I mean, there's no reason not to vote for these amendments. There is only if you wish not to pass this law. For no reason, I speak like this, I've been here four years an MP, I'm sad to be an MP, I have to say right now. If this is how it's done, it's just lost, I'll be 54 years old and 4 years absolutely lost. I want everything that is in line with the principles of the EU, everything that is in the interest of every citizen and people in BiH and I will tell the entity immediately, because it is now constitutionally arranged to be as soon as possible in our interest. If we're putting this off, let's say this doesn't work and there's only one culprit, then it's no boycott, it's no compromise. We here, the citizens here pay us to drag them into a break-in they've been in since '92. '95. I was against it back then and now I'm against it when as a man I can fight for some democratic processes in this country. She's my country, and that's how I feel, but my country is as free as any citizen of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10974	Thank you, Mr. Prodanović. You haven't commented on what your schoolmate is proposing, to postpone the plea, but here, uh, if there aren't any registered debates, I, here, am finalizing the debate and I'm going to conduct the procedure as the Rules of Procedure is scheduled. We, practically, come, practically, come at a moment when we declare amendments, about amendments, so you do. I'm stretching, stretching, and you're not using, so, here, come in right away. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10975	Uh, so, I don't think maybe you should mention it, but before I amend this proposal to put on a plea, a delay. So you have one suggestion
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10976	Well, I've tested, I've tested, I've tested your proposal in some way, expecting to hear what Mr. Prodanović says and what one of the MPs says about it, but here, we need to conduct one procedure and this is all kind of, uh, improvisation, but here's the thing. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10977	I say, Chairman, uh, it's never too late to break the law. So here are the attitudes, here are the attitudes, so these are who they are. Uh, to be honest, I don't get to accept what's proposed, nor do I get to break the law. Also, as far as I can see, uh,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10978	It's a pain in the ass, it's a pain in the ass, it's a pain in the
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10979	According to Mr. Prodanović, his law is not passed without these amendments, nor is he brought down. I mean, I'm talking about us, so this is just a personification of two opinions here in Parliament. I said, therefore, in my discussion that this agency, in my opinion, should look like. I also watched this expert opinion that came from Vienna from this agency. I don't think we're going to lose anything if you, if we all decide to take another 15 days together and the Constitutional Commission then, as the committee responsible, tries to consider this thing one more time. The only business opportunity, respecting what Mr. Genjac was talking about, if he can do what Mr. Genjac was talking about, that's not the problem either.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10980	Me, some new aspects to find and so on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10981	This one, let's take another 15 days and try to make a new, new report on the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10982	Okay, thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Here, I hope you've all heard what's proposed and here I am, I'll put it to a vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Postponing the vote. With 21 votes for, without against, eight abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we have made a decision to postpone the declaration of amendments and the law for the next session. Thank you, for 15 days in the meantime, for the Constitutional Commission to try in accordance with these new aspects, that directive, that letter from the Atomic Energy Agency and further negotiation, including, of course, the RES, to find some aspects that would bring, at this point, conflicting views. Let's go to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Framework Law on Preschool Education and Education in BiH There's no need to remind you of history. We practically adopted this Law in our first reading. We don't officially have an amendment. To the truth, Mr Denis Bećirović delivered 6 amendments on 7 May with an invitation to Article 109. However, these amendments have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and will not be considered. We have informed Mr Bećirović about this, yes, we have informed Mr Bećriović with regret, this, that's right, that's how it is. So, we're in second reading now, we don't have an amendment. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Bećirović. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10984	Here, the chairman, as you said, I delivered six amendments, but this law is being considered according to the old Rules of Procedure, not according to the new one. So maybe it wouldn't be bad for us to set the agendas of our sessions, maybe put in parentheses where the old Rules of Procedure applies so that there might be no misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10985	The applicability is in place. Although we explained it on several occasions and analyzed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10986	But here I am taking the opportunity to say something also in the debate about this for me and the SDP Club very important law. I have to say, this bill has a lot of weaknesses and weaknesses. However, this law is, however, better than the existing one, and existing that we have none. The law discusses how to start raising and educate that generation, which will take over BiH leadership in 20, 30 years. So this is the law on the future of BiH and I want to note that I am not very encouraged by the fact that even in the first reading, in the last session of Parliament, unless, is it, the SDP Club of us, no one has even applied for a discussion on this subject. It seems as soon as there's a theme about the future, about existence, there's no big interest in life, and there's no big debate. Unfortunately, children are mostly remembered as other endangered categories when certain disasters occur. When we have a situation that, is it, children up here in Sarajevo or when children die, etc. To discuss probably a national topic here would be dozens of discussions, discussions, and all with the aim of protecting or protecting endangered Serbia, Croatia, Bosniakism, etc. Since we believe that there are indeed many shortcomings in this law, we also use this opportunity in the debate to say a few words. This law really lacks a provision that speaks of what an act on the establishment of a preschool institution contains. Unfortunately, there is no such thing in this law. There's not even a fact that we're looking for a preschool work programme to have, is there an explanation of how and in what way and in what conditions it's realising. We also don't have provisions that talk about breeders and fellow workers, about conditions and how to secure space and equipment. We also do not have in the law the precise conditions necessary to start carrying out activities within preschool institutions. I also think, given the situation in BiH, that it would be good, perhaps when we adopt this law to respond through changes and additions. But if it were necessary to put a provision in this law that would, among other things, stress that any form of national and religious segregation is prohibited in BiH in pre-school institutions. If this were probably a normal country, this shouldn't be, but when we have in mind what's going on in BiH, I don't think it would be any extra in this law at all. 71 Also, when it comes to programmes, I think this is probably the case in certain provisions of the law, but it would not be wrong to specify that early learning programmes of foreign languages and other programmes of artistic, cultural and sports content are also needed in pre-school institutions. Also, in the implementation of preschool programmes, I think it would be good to specify by law, therefore, that preschool institutions are obliged to create appropriate conditions for the growth and development of each child, complement family education with their openness and to establish effective co-operation with both parents and the immediate children's environment. And also, it would be good to have in this law that we also have the working hours of preschool institutions in line with the needs of children and employees of parents. But here's what it is, we from the SDP will support this Framework Law proposal even though it has, I say, a number of shortcomings and weaknesses, but it's the only way to get to this law and then, through amendments and additions, we suggest certain improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10987	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10988	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, koleginica and colleagues, so far, the BiH Parliament has succeeded, when it comes to education, to pass the Framework Law on primary and secondary education, I hope that today we will adopt a law on pre-school education and education in BiH. A positive report on the Law on Higher Education has been made on the Constitutional Legal Commission. I believe he'll be at the next session. And at the next session of the Constitutional Commission, 30th of this month, the Law on the Agency for Primary, Preschool and Secondary Education, which is why I actually asked for a word and wanted to remind you, therefore, that, apart from this law, this area as well as the field of primary and secondary education, will be edited from the aspect of the intelligence and the Agency and the Law on the Agency for Primary, Preschool and Secondary Education. And we will, in practice, if, therefore, today we adopt this law, which we have been working on, otherwise, for a long time in the Constitutional Commission, as you have seen with a high degree of consent, we have made this report and adopted one amendment, we will actually round this set of laws concerning education in BiH. Of course, it remains, too, a very difficult part of the implementation work, and I believe that, on the trail of these laws that we have already passed or we are going to bring, uh, seriously into force by the restoring ministry and other institutions, in particular, therefore, these agencies and in the phase of implementation. We have problems implementing the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education as you know it. I suggest, therefore, to all of us that we support this law, the Framework Law on Preschool Education and Education in BiH and therefore, that you know, matter, common matter regarding this law, the Law on Fundamental and Secondary Education contained, contained in part and in this law which is not yet on the agenda, which speaks of this agency as a regulator. So much and thank you. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10989	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović, for the information and recommendations. All we have left is Mr. Kalabić's report. Here, we also have Mr. Izetbegović. Just for information, this process lasts, Mr. Bećirović, a few years, and these people sitting here have been arguing for hours and days, etc., but there it is. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10990	Well, unfortunately, some of the SNSD MPs' club will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10991	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10992	And this is what we want to show our relationship with reform, reform procedures in the areas of education, and we think that this law can be an example of how things should work in BiH. We worked seriously on this law, we had here and the amendment phase and participated in it, one part of the amendment was accepted, for one we asked for certain compromises, found them and got one bill. A framework law on pre-school education and education in BiH that contains exactly what we have been representing all along. It is a good move forward, it is part of the entire education system, as we believe that things should be regulated at this point in BiH that normative, principles, standards, criteria and what this law contains should be at BiH level. And other authorities in BiH are simply doing their job for what they are in charge of and what they naturally belong to. I mean, if we were to set things up like that in many other spheres so that we could work out as quickly and easily as we did here. I say again, unfortunately, with full respect for the views of some other political parties, the SNSD shows today a serious approach to this issue and will continue to behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10993	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10994	I would like to support this law, which is very comprehensive for one framework law, and on what my colleague Bećirović was saying, I do not think there is a need for this to be covered by the law. Here, I am paying attention to Article 3 which says that this law will ensure education and education under equal conditions for all children. Then Article 8 in which it is said - that the general goals of education and education stem from the universal values of a democratic society with its own value systems based on the specificities of national and historical etc. religious, 73 this, traditions of the people and in Article 21. - that all public, private preschool institutions in BiH will be established and applied to the common core of the whole, therefore, joint core. I think this is quite OK and quite inclusive.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10995	Thank you, Mr. Izetbegović. Here, this is how I conclude the debate. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 30 votes for, without votes against, two abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we adopted the proposal for a Framework Law on Preschool Education and Education in BiH in the second reading. Thank you very much. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Industrial Property Act - Proposers: MPs Selim Bešlagić and Mirjana Malić It's also about the second reading. At the seventh session, we adopted the Law in our first reading. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission submitted the Bill Proposal report on May 3rd. The Commission adopted one amendment in the plenary phase, we have no amendments. Practically, we have great support, uh, and with the commission. Here, I'm opening a debate on this law in the second reading. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 32 votes for, without, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority. I agree that in the second reading, we adopted the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Industrial Property of MPs selo Bešlagić and Mirjana Malić. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Armed Forces Service Act
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10998	I pray, however, that today we do not declare ourselves in another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u10999	So we don't plead today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11000	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11001	Here, obviously, uh, there's no need to check this out because we're not gonna get entity support. So this way we're done with this agenda point. They passed the Law amending the Law of Service in the Armed Forces in the first reading. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety in BiH – Proposer: MP Mehmed Suljkanović The proposal for a law delivered in the procedure of March 06th is under review in the ordinary procedure. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 14 March, the competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 13 April, supported the principles of the proposed law. So, I'm opening a debate of the law in the first, first reading. Have there been any reports of this law? If not, I apologize, here comes the proposaler, Mr. Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11003	The Honored Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, chaired the order of moves following this renewed Law, namely the proposal for amendments and additions. What is not stated in the minutes by the committee in charge is one proposal to hold a public debate, so perhaps it should be stated here that we should see whether a number of colleagues have also been organised in the context of this debate, because the interest in changes and additions has been expressed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11004	So here we are now deciding, we don't know if there will be any need to see, first whether this law will receive the necessary support in its first reading. So, are we going to adopt it in the first reading. And then, of course, uh, we can absolutely agree to have a public debate before, before the statement in the second reading. Here you go, Mr. Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11005	Thank you very much, Chairman, I think we should come forward today and adopt this law in our first reading because we took it down last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11006	Procedures
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11007	In the emergency procedure, was he in the emergency room or, yes, was he in the emergency room?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11008	Short.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11009	And there's a reason for him to go into further procedure, he really has a reason for practical reasons in the application of that law and I.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11010	Well, here's what I expect from the Commission and the Proposer to do whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11011	That is right, now that we adopt it in the first reading, let the Commission see if there is a need for a public debate. My personal opinion is that you should and they will carry it out further.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11012	Okay. Please, therefore, if there are no more reports, I propose that we make a statement on the Amendment Law proposal and amendments to the Law on traffic safety on the road to BiH in the first reading. 76 Please prepare to vote. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11013	With the new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11014	With 30 votes for, without prejudice, with one abstention, with a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport on Roads to BiH in the first reading, of course, will be led by the Commission responsible and will assess the need to organise public, public, debates. So there's no obstacle. We're going to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions of BiH – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković So it's about first reading. We had a proposal for this law at the 5th session, it was returned to the competent commission for further consideration, to submit a new report. A new report by the respective Constitutional Legal Commission came on May 3rd of the current year. The Commission adopted the bill by adopting, with 6 amendments adopted, and did one good thing, it added to the report the consolidated text of the law, therefore, including, I welcome this, including, this, the amendments adopted. So we're in first reading. We're considering the law in the old Rules of Procedure. We don't have any amendments in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate. Here comes the President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11016	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So this is a commitment taken by the Constitutional Commission together with the Law on Higher Education and this Law on radiation and nuclear security from one of the previous sessions. Here, after several sessions in consultation with the BiH concessions commission, we have reached this text on the Constitutional Commission. Because, therefore, we had a law that was practically an amendment to the original text of the law. So then we had the commission's position, which was re-amendingly set against the amendments. So then we had a coherent attitude that had been amendments to the amendment committees and that you wouldn't be bothered about it much, so there was a lot of trouble to level this whole thing together. We have decided on the commission to offer you a final version of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the concession laws and that is, therefore, the text, which is why I am getting up. So that's the text we're voting on today and he's here in the commission's report. That's what we're saying today. I suggest, of course, since this is all agreed that this House supports this text of the law. That's it, thank you. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11017	I thank Mr. Džaferović for his helpful additional notes. So, have there been any reports of a hearing? If not, I'm closing the debate and I'm asking you to prepare for a plea. So it's about first reading. Vote now. With 31 votes for, without prejudice, 1 abstention with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the concessions of BiH Proponent Momčilo Novaković in our first reading. So, since we don't have an amendment the very high degree of consent is about this law in the first reading. I'm asking you if we should plead, that we should go to another reading. I suggest, here, I suggest we check it out, so who's up for it. Prepare to vote. Who is it that we are considering this law today in a second reading. Vote now. With 28 votes for, without prejudice, with one abstention and a sufficient entity majority. We decided to make a statement about this law and in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We are voting on the law in the second reading With 30 votes for, without, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, I agree that in the second reading, we also adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the concessions of BiH Proposer Momčilo Novaković. Let's get to point 10, then, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Act on additional value, with the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget, are proposed by MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović, Selim Bešlagić The proposal for this law has been in the process since July 07th, 2006. poslanik Lagumdžija, Križanović, Bešlagić submitted it with an urgent request to be considered in accordance with Article 105 of the previous Rules of Procedure at the 83rd session of the previous session, so it is in regular procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 25 August, found that there was a valid constitutional basis. The committee responsible, this is important for finance and the budget of which we received the report, the 24th was the Commission for Finance and the budget of which we received the report on 24 April. So, the committee's report, as you've seen, is negative. So the commission did not accept the principles of the proposed law. Therefore, we are discussing today and deciding on the Commission's report. Of course, with a note, if the commission's report is passed the law has fallen and vice versa, and 78 vice versa, so if it's the other way around, then it opens up, opens up, another kind of possibility. So, I'm opening a debate on the report, on the Finance Commission's report and the budget you've received. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11019	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to propose to the College today that when the House gets into this situation where dramatic debates take place, it takes a break for lunch, and then it goes a little bit easier.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11020	I didn't hear you, Jozo.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11021	That when we get caught up in the big debates, we'll relax things, take a lunch break, and then we'll.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11022	Now, shall we take a coffee break?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11023	No, now we're gonna do, uh, break up this good, good cooperation and consensus and
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11024	Okay. [[Common discussion]] All right, all right, all right. Here you go, Mr. Križanović. May I have your attention, please, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11026	And let me remind you, as soon as I can, of the bill's proposal and look back at the commission's report, that's what we're discussing. So, the SDP proposal, as the chairman said, dates back to 07/07 last year, and due to known circumstances, its resolution has been extended to date. I would just like to remind myself briefly that this proposal required the introduction of zero rates for medicines and medical aids, medical and orthopaedic aids, products and services used, which use folk cuisine in providing their services, daily and weekly newspapers and official journals, book publishing services, brochures, magazines, publications, professional, scientific, cultural and educational character as well as paper used for these purposes, and learning including information equipment and software for pre-school, primary, secondary and higher education. So it's a set that would help the poorest part of the population, but also improve the educational, cultural and informative sphere in BiH. 79 The Commission's opinion on the proposal for this law is, in fact, a cited opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. What I want to say today is that it is devastating for BiH, for this Parliament and for the Council of Ministers to give me a year and a half, so this is not the first initiative, right now to remind ourselves, which went towards improving the VAT law and that we have persistently the same relationship between the Directorate for indirect taxation that is imposed as a top authority in this country when it comes to sales tax.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11027	I'm asking you to be patient, if we need to take a break, because we're going to lose the quorum if we keep going like this. Here you are, Mr. Matić, it's not, don't let this break on you, but I see everything, okay, okay. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11028	Therefore, the Directorate for indirect taxation is accepted as the only and supreme authority that defines tax policy in BiH. Not once in a year and a half of the initiatives leading to the amendment of this law have come to light by the Council of Ministers or this time. In an explanation, therefore, and the opinion of the Commission that defacto quoted, in fact, the opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, some information is given that VAT is in accordance with directives, European directives, etc., and is then interpreted what VAT is and is ultimately meant to lead to the introduction of zero rates on domestic transport leading to a breach of the tax discipline level achieved and an increase in the possibility of tax fraud. It is said that there has been no significant decline in prices in all the countries that, following the implementation of the VAT at one rate, introduced a zero rate on the turnover of certain goods, i.e. services. Listen, it's a significant price drop. Why I mean this, the nebulosis is this, why I quoted this. I was quoting because we didn't get any exact indicators here from that supreme authority to disrupt tax revenues, budget revenues, etc. I just want to remind you that in the last year, we've had 500 million surplus incomes compared to salaries. Which is attributed to the VAT system and, of course, we're all for VAT. It's just that it came with these 500 million surplus revenues in the budgets of entities and states. As this has affected poverty, no one is making an analysis. We don't even have an analysis of whether that decision was made to compensate 10 marks per poor BiH resident by introducing a VAT. Niko one comments that these, in the first three months of this year, we have 7% of the surplus income but last year, etc., etc. So, I know this is an extra story, but I was going to say this to break up the practice that we don't have a government that leads to some economic or fiscal policy and delete, brother, that's a mine institution that holds an empty letter and we believe in as in a sacred cow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11029	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. 80 I must agree with you, uh, first, that your story is not an extra story, but I must tell you that this country certainly has no surplus income. The term used is really confusing, uh, one of Europe's poorest countries, the excess income story, and, I'm sorry, we're having a bad plan. And I must tell you that I agree in two things completely with you. So, about the position of the Management Board of indirect taxation that we are discussing ten times, but we need to run certain procedures, amendments to the law, etc. and try to fix those things. And we also said that a year and a half ago, two days ago, to wait for an analysis of the effects of introducing this system, we never got it so far, it was one condition etc. But here we are, unfortunately, in the situation we are in. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11030	It's not an unknown fact that here's the SDP for several years,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11031	It's not just the SDP, it's ten parties doing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11032	So I'm talking on behalf of the SDP,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11033	Oh, no, I mean.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11034	As an MP for the SDP, you speak for whoever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11035	Well, of course, here's the thing, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11036	So I am talking about the SDP proposal that we have been insisting for several years on amendments and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value. And here we have again today this SDP proposal on the agenda with this commission's report. As SDP Club President Jozo Križanović has already said, the essence of this proposal, which is on Parliament's agenda today, is to ask for the release of VAT medicines and auxiliary medicinal products, folk cuisine, and not to read what the proposal contains.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11037	We know for sure what it contains.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11038	I'll be held first on these two items medications and auxiliaries. Perhaps we'll all agree there too, the biggest blow is to the pensioners and these endangered categories, since the drugs have really collected enough for their standards and for their receipts. 81 When it comes to these folk cuisines, too, it is no longer just a request from the SDP that we have presented here today through these changes and additions, but it is also a requirement from people who work in folk cuisines. It is not unknown that poverty is in the scope of what it is in our country and that we have an increased number of users, people who address the cuisines, and on the other hand, we have a proposal for people who work in these soup kitchens to support this proposal and that these products and services used by folk cuisines are set free. Here we want to point out, also the fact that the SDP, and we repeatedly stress, is not against the Tax on additional value, it is not an ideal tax but there is no better tax, it has also brought certain positive effects and we are not running to talk about it. But I repeat, we are against this unique rate and we think we should first of all tax the luxury. That is why the SDP MPs' Club also proposed in the previous period the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxation Act in BiH, where we asked to increase taxes on pearls, diamonds, gems, gold and expensive yachts, cars expensive, etc. But here you all know what the fate of this proposal is. I think this parliament should get the strength to show one greater social sensitivity versus the endangered categories of population in this country. We here, apparently, have to realize that we still don't have an effective social programme that can be implemented effectively on the ground. We also need to talk about the negative consequences of the introduction of VAT, i.e. these unique VAT rates, and not VAT, and we need to talk about why there are no effective social programmes. Now, from this distance, we can slowly analyze what is promised and what is said, is, a few years ago, and what are concrete results. I also have a few words to say here from what the then Council of Ministers promised BiH citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11039	Mr. Kadrić, sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11040	Namely, two years ago, the Council of Ministers and the parliamentary majority, which is more or less in the same composition and today, then, among other things, here I have this document here, said that VAT does not increase prices automatically and that VAT more uniformly distributes tax burdens. We here today at the SDP Club want to warn that it is not true and our opinion is: it may be agreed or not that the VAT burden actually fell to those most vulnerable categories of population, to the poorest as some say: some tax, or VAT tax, of extra value, and someone seems to have been tax plus additional value. Also, I must say that the Council of Ministers, among other things, has announced that the only VAT rate of 17% in BiH will bring the revenues needed to improve social services and now needs to be asked whether the social services in BiH are really better than they were two years ago. They also literally came from the Council of Ministers and then said it would improve the business environment in BiH and help attract better foreign investment and open more working meth. Now the question is whether we as Parliament have the strength to answer this question and to make one analysis, indeed, of what has been achieved. Is our business environment better? As you can see, statistics say that BiH is among the countries in transition, if not last, from the point of view of the quality of the business climate. In particular, 82 situations have deteriorated in the past six months, and this is not something that only we in the SDP, from the opposition, but also whether people from both the EU and the US and others who came to BiH spoke here. Whether VAT has really opened up more jobs and this is also a question for this parliamentary majority, since they have announced it. Now, when we look at the facts, we see that only in the last 6 months we have an increase in the number of unemployed both in the RS and in the F BiH and in general in BiH. So the unemployment trend continues. We want to say that there are a lot of really arguments and explanations why we insist that at least these products that we have listed get rid of this unique rate. After all, it is not just some specificity of BiH, here, here, we have, if, found a review of the VAT rate in EU countries, as you see a huge number of countries in the EU have several rates, each, here is Ireland, where we have such development, and before that was this director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, i.e. the Management Board was Irac. We have them here, did they say that our best single rate is one of 17%, and in Ireland we have five feet. There is no different situation in transition countries, and most countries have higher rates. We of the SDP really believe that conditions have been created for us to actually adopt this proposal offered by the SDP Club, which would primarily help the most socially vulnerable categories of the population, because our view is that, above all, the only VAT rate has been placed on the burden of those most vulnerable categories of the population. It's not bad that, here's how many years later, the introduction of a VAT to go back to another document here and analyze it. Namely, in the second half of 2005, as you remember, a proposal for measures to mitigate the impact of prices of basic living foods has been proposed following the introduction of VAT. The document was prepared by the economic planning and implementation unit of the medium-term development strategy. And it's exactly the taxaneous order of measures that should have been taken in these two years. Among other things, entity governments have been said to include funds to mitigate price growth as part of budget preparation for next year. It is necessary that the government of the Federation and Parliament of the Federation adopt the Family Protection Act with children. We need to bring to the National Assembly of the RS amendments to the Social Protection System Act. That pension funds make up the list of beneficiaries of pensions below 200 KM. That cantonal governments are working on a grant scheme to pay VAT for medicinal products supplied by social aid users, etc., not to mention all the measures provided for. Here, I get you all together, to analyze how much of this has been done and what we can figure out two years after that. This is why we call once again on all MPs, whether they are in position or opposition today, to support this SDP proposal and to free at least the medicines, these products used by folk cuisines, and this is everything we have stated in the proposal as the SDP Parliament Club has delivered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11041	Thank you, Mr. Bećirević. Here you go, Mrs. Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11042	I'd just briefly replicate to Mr. Bećirović. I'd actually give 83 more.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11043	It won't be short, it'll be half an hour now, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11044	I'd like to comment more. It is not the citizens of BiH, but also these categories, which are in social need only at risk of VAT, but are one of the complexities of BiH's constitutional, constitutional arrangement. I, as a health professional, say responsibly that medicines should actually be one essential list, a state essential list, with generic names and thus in any way, we would manage to make these medicines free of charge by our pensioners. At the same time, I argue that the social policy of providing people in the social need for years has been at the cantonal level of care and that only last year in the Federation of BiH have we managed to pass the law that, in some ways, these things are improved and that people who are in need of other people's care and help are exercising their rights from the level of the Federation of BiH. I think it would be much better and more adequate if this kind of social care were going from the state level. So, in fact, I would, therefore, be able to point out that it is not only this one, the reduction of the VAT rate and its fractionation way of helping the elderly, the sick and the unsuspecting of whom Mr Becirovic is talking about, but that there is another broad range of opportunities in which, above all, we need one common political goal and common consensus in terms of the unique social care strategy of people who are in the social need and people who are being treated in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11045	Thank you, Azra. Here, Bakir Izetbegović. Yes, I haven't looked, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11046	So, uh, the introduction of VAT caused inflation of about 7.45%, which normally hit the hardest, this, the poorest part of the people. And, no one, no one reasonable is against what the persistent SDP is proposing, but that's what needs to be very well evaluated. That can't, I mean, do Parliament based on what we Parliamentarians can get the data. It should be done knowingly and in quality by the Council of Ministers. So, that one package to consider. What about excises, what about customs, what about VAT and inside that package to suggest. I'm afraid, therefore, the VAT had this bad side, caused inflation, on the other hand, everything else is, I think, that there, that we all agree with the VAT there was good he shut down some holes. Because apparently those vessels had holes, this one, through which it leaked, and the holes were clogged, and the containers, these budgets were filled after the VAT was introduced. Do we risk it, if we cut it now, uh, from 17 to some zero, uh, I don't know what percent, that we're not going to do it in... for a month, that we're going to have a sudden decrease in, uh, budget inflows, and that the prices are the same or similar and that the, uh, smugglers are starting to do what they used to do. I mean, like I said, the government has to quality and consciously measure it to offer either a differentiated rate or a social programme that we're going to help people, etc. 84 So today, the SDA will support what the Commission has proposed and I expect such an analysis and a proposal from the government soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11047	Thank you, Mr. Izetbegović. Are there any more reported? If not, go ahead, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11048	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in order not to get the impression here that only one party or one individual in the name of the party is fighting to help social categories and tomorrow at the press conference, it's a bombistic explanation that we're all against it, that we're not going to help the poor, the people, that we're imposing a new impose on them. I want this taboo to come down and demystify some things here first. Yesterday, let's say only the dipressions, we had on the outside, on the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs Frapant Data, that, for example, in 2005, the rebalancing was exports-importing 7.5 billion marks. Thanks to VAT in 2006, exports increased by 38% and imports were only 1.5%. So, in order to make a statement about this law, we need to have the parameters of all the competent institutions, above all, the Directorate for indirect taxation, what these laws are to us and what that inflow of money has brought us. What good is that and where it caused the damage? But since we still don't have an analysis that's crucial to stating about this law, of course we can't say anything about it today. We should, therefore, collect all this relevant data and then say that we really want BiH not to go bankrupt first, firstly that, secondly, to see where it is possible to reduce VAT, of course to life supplies, books, medicines as already said. But someone has to prepare an analysis here and it's the Council of Ministers with their institutions to propose to us. But since the project is gone, since there is no proposal, I think it would be premature for us to make some decisions and adopt this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11049	Thank you, sir, so I know, I mean, I expect, go ahead. Now, Mr. Bećirović, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11050	Well, I don't answer very often.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11051	Of course, well done, good job.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11052	I don't want to replicate at all, I just want to point out to my fellow MPs. The question you're discussing, everyone here that we've discussed, and you and me and everyone, has been on the last Council of Ministers where we've proposed that the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11053	Dozens of sessions spent.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11054	The Council of Ministers did an analysis, right? To make an analysis and promise us as a baby doll. And they keep promising, and they never did. So, we simply, I think it's illusory to suggest this and Lijanović suggested something so he gave it up because he can't go through with it. We have one feller in the system and you said it well and Jozo said it well. We have a feller that our Directorate for indirect taxation is above Parliament, above the Council of Ministers. Fiscal policy
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11055	We passed the law, Selime.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11056	All, and therefore, we have to start a question and, let me, we will raise a question of change of jurisdiction in this system. It is the only solution that we in Parliament can talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11057	You will be supported immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11058	Well, thank you very much. If you still cover for me, I'll be glad.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11059	Thank you. You'll be supported. Here, if there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Please, let us plead, therefore, on the report of the committee responsible. So, if the report is accepted, the law falls, if the report is not accepted, the law returns to the commission for review, to review. So, get ready to vote. Vote now. We're voting on the Commission's report. Prepare the listing, please, you'll need it. No, I'm sure. Sure, sure. Vote now. With 23 votes in, eight against. 3 abstention, enough entity majority, I find that a report of the Finance Commission and the Budget on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on Extra Value, proposed by MPs: Zlatko Lagumdžija, Joza Križanović and selo Bešlagić. And that's how the law fell. We're going to the next item on the agenda, so, 86 Ad. 11. BiH Presidency Report on Decisions on Compassions for 2006 So it's the 11th point. You have received a report from the Bureau, you have also received an opinion, and the opinion of the Commission, the Constitutional Commission, and it proposes to the House of Representatives that this notice be made, because it is practically a kind of notice, information, or notice, to be taken into account together with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. What is it, Šefik, did you want to talk? Go ahead, Bakir?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11061	Here, we have a pardon here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11062	There's no name, Bakir. I've seen it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11063	He's got pardons for a drug dealer, twice. I mean, I can't help it. Drug dealers, human trafficking, paedophilia, rape of women, well, that shouldn't be asked, we can't, we won't vote on it today, but to pay attention to you, they've pardoned drug dealers who poison our youth.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11064	Here you go, Mr. Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11065	I want to say something similar to what Mr. Izetbegović said, that we can adopt this, but this is a done deal. With one recommendation, it is recommended to recommend to the Presidency that in and the competent services that are preparing, that this Presidency, that pardons be truly in line with all the standards prescribed for pardon and not be in public tomorrow, as it can otherwise be, responses and legitimate responses. I am convinced that tomorrow or beyond, we will find in the means of information justified by the reactions of individual families to pardon certain acts that we here, to know that these acts would not surely be carried out by pardons nor would we support ratification today. I suggest, therefore, that this conclusion goes to the Presidency and to all those who prepare their names and names for pardon. If, of course, we adopt that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11066	Well, if you agree, of course, I'm opening up the possibility. Is there any further discussion? If there isn't, here's the final hearing. We will take these two suggestions, i.e. on the trail of what Mr. 87 Izetbegović and Mr. Okolić were talking about, and we can accept it and send it as a kind of suggestion and our opinion. But here, let's be clear about whether or not we're getting to know each other. So, to take this notice, or information, there's no other way to know. So, prepare to plead. Please, well, let's make it clear that we're receiving knowledge. Vote now. Who's in favor of letting this know? Maybe someone doesn't want to take it into their knowledge. With the Commission's views, of course. Here, look. So, with 10 votes for, against 4, 5 abstentions, something isn't regular. So we're gonna have to, we're gonna have to do it again. Can I have your attention, please? Let's do this again. [[Common discussion]] Vote now, vote now. About receiving or not taking in knowledge. This is even worse. So, we're not gonna seem to take it to the knowledge. With 12 for, 5 against, 10 abstentions, 6 Federations, RS MPs, this is one species, that's what an entity vote is. So, no, no, practically, support, or no receiving to knowledge. Please, I am saying that Parliament simply did not take most of the votes to the knowledge of this information. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11070	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the opportunity to say a brief word about the report. I'll try to respect your time. As you can see, for the first time, there is a comprehensive report for a complete judicial system and for every judicial institution in particular. The report also includes for each chapter of recommendations that can help both this Parliament and the justice ministry when it comes to legislative initiatives or other decisions. I would just like to briefly remind myself of the objectives of the reform. As we know, judicial sector reform would be one of the key conditions for BiH in the accession process. And as the objectives of the judicial reform were set, they were set up - to build guarantees of judicial independence, rationalise the network of judicial institutions, rationalise the number of judges and prosecutors according to widely accepted European standards, amend procedural laws in order to establish effective procedures, professionalise judges and prosecutors and finally, as a goal of establishing an effective, effective judiciary. What has been achieved by these goals over the past period? First, a single system of judicial institutions consisting of 67 basic, i.e. municipal courts and 17 prosecutors was established. What a unique system, therefore, with last year, with the accession of courts for violations of regular courts, a unique organisational structure of judicial institutions has been established. So today we have a unique, unique system and to explain, so we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't have specialized, or special courts and infringement courts are part of regular courts. The process of renaming all judges and prosecutors and selecting all judges and prosecutors in positions towards, according to, established, the established standard of the number of judges, or prosecutors. It currently has about twenty unfulfilled positions, but it keeps showing up because of people going to other positions, going to retirement or for some other reason. We've had a situation right now that a number of judges and prosecutors went to the notaries so we got a slightly larger number of vacant positions. I think about 20 people have left the judicial structure. Also, in conclusion with last year, all basic procedural laws have been amended so that we have received effective procedures in litigation, criminal and enforcement procedures. We are also, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council was established as a single state institution. An independent state institution that needs to, to provide guarantees of judicial independence. Two education centres have been established tasked with professionalising judges and prosecutors in the structure and providing initial training to all those entering the structure of judicial institutions. It has been carried out and the process is under way, judicial administration reform, information equipment for all courts and prosecutors. Right now, all the courts are informationally equipped, each judge has his own computer, every court and prosecutor's office has its own local network, and we are currently working on establishing a network of broad areas, so connecting all judicial institutions with a central server that will be in the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. It is a major project that helps the European Commission to contribute significantly to the efficiency of the procedures, as well as to the efficient statistical, efficient finding of statistics and the creation of annual, annual reports. 89 The training of about 2,000 administrative staff and judges for managing these systems has also been completed. We are also setting up CMS, the so-called CMS system, the automatic case management system, the cases currently being tested in 6 courts and we plan to include every court and prosecutor's office in this CMS system for 3 years. So, electronic guidance, object management and one communication that, in accordance with IT, with the development of information technologies. We have also implemented several projects to reconstruct courts and prosecutors and have completed, thanks to a single US government assessment project, an assessment of the reconstruction of all courts and prosecutors in BiH with financial indicators. These reconstruction costs for all courts and prosecutors across the country cost about 24 million marks. There are technical documentation and budgets that are ready, therefore, for the tender and I would ask that, yes, this pre-llament involves it in its activities and that this problem is trying to solve itself or through an international loan, for your information we have talked to the World Bank, we have given it all that documentation we tried to convince them that, in the interest of the World Bank to support the judicial system for supporting business and asked them to include it in their projects of developing and supporting countries in transition. So this is information that you can use in some possible conversations on that subject. We have also established an ethnic balance in all judicial institutions, and perhaps it is one of the greatest achievements. There is currently no court in BiH with only one ethnic structure. In all courts and prosecutors, all nationalities are represented, I don't know if you've been delivered the table, the table of national structures of all courts and prosecutors. If not, we will do it, but here, I can tell you that in the current structure we have 514 Bošnjak, 200 Hrvat and 377 Srbin and 36 others. We have made one table for both judges and prosecutors, and for the presidents of the courts and for expert associates for a complete system and every judicial institution. The status of the current judiciary and the situation in the judiciary, one finding that can be drawn from this report, is that the system created solves the inflow of court cases. What this suggests is that this system is optimally created and that what we have today can effectively solve the inflow of objects. Our problem is old objects, the objects we found, which are unsolved, and our other huge problem are municipal objects that have 56% in the entire structure of unsolved objects. When 56% of the cases of non-payment of municipal services are added to this percentage of the cases, which we received in the system last year with the merger of 26% of the infringement courts, then you can see that only 24% of unfinished court cases refer to those cases that are real by their structure in real, real and structural court cases. If we didn't have this ballast of loose objects and this kind of pressure and the flow of municipal objects, we'd be the most efficient system in Europe in a few years. And we hope, if we find a solution to, for the problem of communal objects, that we will soon be an effective judicial system. When it comes to the quality of the work of the courts, statistics show that it is moving within some frameworks that are acceptable and which have so far been in practice. 78% of court decisions have been confirmed by appeal courts, 11% abolished and 11% changed. When it comes to fines, 64% is parole, 18% of fines and 18% of prison sentences. It's a pretty bad statistic, it's better than it is in the region, but it's still the highest number of conditional convictions and we think it's something that, which is for analysis and that in 90 cases is not acceptable, but probably a reflection of the daily crime that courts solve and one bad strategy, the investigation strategy when it comes to the prosecution's work. Subtracted property benefit, for the first time this year we came up with exactly how much property benefit was seized in criminal proceedings. Therefore, the property benefits obtained by criminal acts and the effects of fines imposed in criminal proceedings. Subtracted property benefit in 139 items in the last year is 3 million 221 thousand 758 KM, which is inadmissible, inadmissible little and this is a serious problem that we are going to
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11071	And that's progress already.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11072	But progress is relative to, to
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11073	The 70 grand three years ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11074	Yes, it is, in previous years, but it's still not enough. The fines, the amount of fines is 4 billion 578, 505 million in 2 890 cases all together, so 7 million 800 000 and 263 KM. We also came up with data, thanks to our Department of Statistics and Budgets whose boss is helping me today if there are any questions in this area. We've come up with information on how much one, one court case, is on basic, or municipal courts. It costs 105 marks, and one item in cantonal, or district courts costs the country 334 KM. Finally, some information on the prosecution's work. Of course, here I use statistics and it is not bad when it comes to the structure of investigations in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, namely, of all those solved, of all the investigations being conducted, 36% refers to war crimes, 27 to economic crime and 37 to general crime. However, the structure of investigations in cantonal, or district prosecutors is much worse, to the general crime of 94%, on economic crime 5%. And this is something that we've been worried about, which is very, very bad, 5% of the court's case involving organized crime is something that's very little and very bad. BiH signed a convention on prevention, fighting organised crime and corruption. As far as I know, the Action Plan has been brought in, and yet we have this, this bad effect. On our part, we will consider this and ask prosecutors to make a strategy, a strategy to prosecute criminal acts, and in these strategies at least 1/3 of the capacities target organised crime, economic crime and corruption, and other resources to other types of crime. When it comes to reporting to the prosecutor's office, 42% refers to unknown perpetrators, making criminal charges take a percentage of 34%, minors about 3% and these unknowns around 21%. Finally, to point to some of the priorities and some of the strategic objectives in this reform, judicial sector reform. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council as an institution does not exist in the Constitution, and we think that 91 High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council as well as the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office as state institutions should be included in the discussion on constitutional changes. Another problem that the justice system currently has is the financing problem. The judiciary is currently financed by 14 levels, 10 entities, 10 cantons, 2 entities, the Brcko District and the BiH State. Thus fragmented funding creates a series of difficulties, from planning to ongoing business of individual courts. Some courts rule out electricity, mail cancels mailing, phones are excluded, because vaults don't pay, they don't pay some dues. The third problem is the State Strategy for judicial reform. We want a part of this strategy to be, and that strategy includes a strategy for the judicial sector. We have our internal document, our 2007-2012 strategy, we want, we wanted to help make this state strategy. Our strategic objectives are included, as far as I know, in the framework strategy, in the State Strategy Framework Document, so we think we will work well together with the Ministry of Justice to draw up this state document. There is something that no one, no, does not mention and perhaps this parliament could, in turn, launch a debate on the subject, which is a state strategy of prevention. We think that, that this is the area where we need to talk and who we need to work on, that they have other countries, that's something very important to us because we need to make sure that, to remove the crime centres where they are expressed and which represents, the greatest pressure on the judiciary. One more, one problem that is currently current, you'll probably find it in the media. Yesterday I received information that the prison department in Busovaci returned 65 persons who were sent to support the sentence for not having the capacity to execute the prison sentence. It's very bad for the system and for the state. That people who are going to get thrown out of jail are coming back because they don't have the capacity. So this is a problem for the Ministry of Justice, that is, for the Justice Ministry's talks that this problem be solved in some way as soon as possible. Another thing I also learned before I came here, some 2,000 lawsuits, individual lawsuits before the BiH Campers' Union, were filed today at the Banja Luka Municipal Court and another 40,000 lawsuits announced. So these are things that need to be dealt with systematically in order to prevent pressure on the court, because this will obviously be another ballast in court, another pressure on the court that will make the courts, courts, inefficient, and that's something that we don't contribute to. I thank you, and I'm prepared to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11075	Thank you, Mr. Perić, for the very exhaustive opening and factual presentation. I have registered for discussion: Mr. Džaferović, just a little bit, just a little bit, so Mr. Džaferović, Nanić, Jovičić, Rajilić, Lijanović, Jukić, Ajanović. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11076	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, you should not be surprised at the number of debaters reporting for discussion on this material. We have been on the Constitutional Commission, 9 of us for two hours discussing this report. The subject is such, it is of interest to people and it is perfectly normal for us to have a debate, and I think a report like this deserves to be discussed in Parliament. We have found on the Constitutional Commission that this is a good report by methodology and content, and that it can serve as a basis for further steps to be taken by other authorities in BiH's judicial reform. The reform of the BiH judiciary is under way, it is not nearly completed and the report offers answers to some questions that should be properly read by the authorities in BiH, and other competent authorities in BiH, and are treated against these answers. Everywhere in the world, in countries that want to truly promote or establish the judiciary as an independent and responsible part of the government, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council are, in fact, the key regulator and the authority in achieving that independence. That is why I believe that close co-operation will be needed between the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives or the Parliamentary Assembly in general and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council in order to ensure or secure such a position in the next period. At this positioning of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, BiH institutions and other authorities, and in particular the legislative authority will have to undertake some activities in the coming period, because we have not yet installed in our system all those standards that we need to install to say that the BiH judiciary or the BiH judiciary is independent, and I am adding always the word responsible because we need to pursue an independent and responsible judiciary, or judicial authority in BiH. I repeat again, therefore, this report is good both by methodology and by content. So far, significant results have been achieved in judicial reform. As parliament, we need to encourage the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to continue, therefore, with this reform course and on the trail of everything that is in this report. We have no right, precisely because of the principle of judicial independence, to adopt or not adopt a report. I would prefer to adopt it, but, therefore, because of this principle, we can only be informed by the High Judicial Council and I, therefore, suggest that we take note of this report with these findings provided by the Constitutional Commission in its report. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11077	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11078	I thank the co-chair, and I join here in taking a look at this report, so that he is methodologically well done, comprehensive, and I can look at all the activities that the Council has had so far and the problems it faces in its work. 93 I want to potential only two or three things here that are in the opening statement of the President of the Council, and that refers to, meaning, a reform that has been going on for six years. It technically gives almost fantastic results and takes place with the dynamics that is planned. However, how much efficiency has been achieved in the new justice system solutions in BiH? If we have heard that a level of problem resolution is reached, that is, at that level that, along with this finding that has been made here, it means that no new case is to come, that it takes 5 years in the work of the judicial authorities to solve the backlogs. It's the one thing I don't see, so that's the efficiency achieved in the reforms that have been done. The next thing you know here, and in the presentation, it's been said that the judicial system is, therefore, loaded with communal objects. There's no solution, what about these communal objects? What solution can, uh, be offered to simply solve this problem. And here, too, there are two things in collegiate that they say, because of insufficient financial resources, on the other hand, donor funds are being provided again, so I think that we, as a Parliament through the Council of Ministers, through Budget, should provide full, full functionality and that the Council can respond to the problems ahead of it. And finally, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity, given the problems that come into work, i.e. the collection of war claims or back salaries of judges, especially from the area of the UN-Sancanton, where I come from, were requests from the body of the legislative and executive authorities to contact the High Judicial and Prosecution Council in terms of solving these problems or exchanging information on how to solve these problems. According to information, there is no answer or whether there is any misunderstanding or something, so I appeal to the competent authorities of the Judicial Council to get in touch with, or to respond to, a request for talks on the issues referred to in those requests. In any case, it means, in the end, I join the praises for the comprehensive representation of the work and the activities ahead of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11079	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11080	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the High Prosecutor's Council has explained here nicely in the report, and the methodology and content is fine. And it really irritates me that a lot of the reports we have to take to the knowledge, but Bog, that's the system. We can't change now. Will anyone accept what we're looking for or what the citizens are looking for? That's the point. Open every day, every newspaper. There are no days when someone doesn't complain about the prosecution and the work of the courts. What do we do to embellish a picture when she's not like that? She's a disaster. You remember when the D.A.'s report was here that I asked the Chief Prosecutor to prepare a strategy for the war crimes case to be over in five years. It is to be expected that it will probably prepare to rebalance the Budget to help them. You've heard here how well-equipped, computers, systems, how it all works, and yet they haven't boasted that the prosecution at least lit up five, here's not to say 50 or 500 key mob and thieving, I don't know what I'd call it, the things that happened in this country. And every day the press points. Will "Free Bosnia" write that one judge in the BiH Court did what he did, that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council would later say that, that is, they did not know what was there, what was done. 94 So, I'm irritated by this situation, always something to know. I'm not saying they did everything wrong, it wasn't possible, but six years is too long. For five years, it's still too long to solve at least this stuff, and there are cases waiting for ten years in courts. Then what kind of efficiency are we talking about? Well, just that it's five items, that's worrying. So, judicial reform, especially hard to talk about, because they're independent of everyone, of course. Well, so that we don't put pressure on independent justice, that, of course, I don't want to, but I'm allowed when these materials arrive, to talk about it. Because I'm going to say it again, we, and I'm guessing all our colleagues, take countless times to the knowledge and not to the knowledge, but to swear on why it's an inefficient judiciary. Why there are so many cases, why key war criminals don't get arrested, there's no result from the prosecution, why key criminals aren't brought to court, and the case is the prosecution, etc., indefinitely. Can we praise ourselves here as MPs? The President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council here can say that everything here is ideal, that the international community wants to be a system like, I don't know, in the best European countries. But we need to understand that this is not the case and that there is no judicial reform done here in the way that we do not want it, but as the citizens want it. We always call on how we represent, how we are chosen by citizens, and that is so, but citizens are always called on not to do anything here. And you've heard statements that Parliament is unemployed. And look how much we sit. So we're not unemployed. We are unemployed, we do well thanks to those who don't send us the right information and who send us this knowledge. I repeat, this is crucial, to knowledge. I am proud that Parliament just before showed the strength to, behold, we will not accept there a report on the knowledge of the Presidency. Let them know now that we won't accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11081	We'll let them know.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11082	Please and thank you, Mr. Chairman, I am delighted, believe me. This is what I'm telling you honestly, that the whole Parliament has not accepted for knowledge. Is there anyone to accept, repeat, to know what the people are looking for, what the citizens are looking for? Mr. President, this doesn't concern you personally. You read the paper. Is there any page of the black chronicle there that no one complains about the Court, the D.A.? Is there? He doesn't have one day. And you wrote for the paper like I did. You know how. And that's what you wrote about. I'm writing now and I'm writing. So, please, please, we can accept this to the knowledge, but the results as presented in this brochure or report, as you will, are not so. They are written, efficiency is nowhere near what the people expect, and this cannot go on indefinitely. That's why we expect you to have this strategy that everyone here is talking about here about a strategy, so that we can find the modals and we can find a strategy to help you with that and your results. They, as they are now, are good, I agree with Mr. Nanić, are good, but if you have that case that people are looking for you, someone has not paid the salary, so that there can be any result good. It's no good. And I don't want to go any further, so we'll accept, here's what we need, this report to know and to the office, but I'm telling the president we're not satisfied. Take all measures, address Parliament, where the main brakes are, who bothers you to help you. Well, you didn't say you weren't happy. You said it was a lovely network, but you didn't say you weren't happy. You said he'd be fine. Here I am encouraging you to do even better. Thank you very much. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11083	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. Mrs. Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11084	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make one general remark first. I'd like to ask the High Court and Prosecution Council that this report is once printed on Cyrillic, so I know what it's all about. In this case, I will interpret it as a disciplinary procedure. And that's what I'd like to talk about. I'm not saying I don't know how to read Latin and write Latin, but in some terms, I'm not sure if I'm going to interpret it well, and I don't want to speak as a lawyer because I'm not, I don't understand it, but I'm going to speak as someone who's been leading a six-year Board of Appeals, Appeals and Social Oversight at the National Assembly of the Republic of RS and I'm going to tell Mr. President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council what the citizens are most complaining about, and here, according to your indicators, and I see that they're quite right. Namely, you've received a lot of complaints. You're saying this is 1,733 civil complaints. Of which 1.150 per judge and 228 on the prosecution, and the other 355 is not indicated on whom. In total, he says here, if I understand it correctly, that a disciplinary procedure has been initiated against 35 judges, prosecutors, etc. The rest is discarded. I do, although I don't know what he's referring to because you didn't say what the complaints were about in this report. So on what kind, whether it's bribery and corruption, whether it's unconscious service work, whether it's late in cases, etc. So from this knowledge of mine, it should be. There's no indication of what this is about, and 17 decisions have been made, from which you say 19, so sanctions, with no one being relieved of their duties. So, watch out, 1733 complaints, and no one's been cleared of duty. I can't accept that it can happen. I understand that four judges resigned because they probably thought they'd be resolved, etc., I can understand that. The pay cut and I understand that. Written public notice, please, for me, that's something from socialism when we had those public warnings, etc. I'm not saying that they don't stand in disciplinary measures and that they can be said, but this one, who doesn't get that pay rejection, he accepts it and leaves it somewhere behind. I mean, you can interpret this as an interpretation of a layman who doesn't understand other things. Maybe that public notice in the next procedure means firing, I accept that, but this, in principle, that judge can say this time I got away, I'll get away with it next time. What doesn't suit me in one part, and I'll also say what it refers to, is the reaction of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in several cases, and I had two parliamentary offices where I worked, so in Kozarska Dubica and Novi Grad, where citizens came, to me as an MP, and the most they complained about courts and prosecutors, that's what I have to say because that's also some statistics that we received from the Ombudsman of Republika Srpska there considering. It was also the slow work of courts and judgments, etc., but what had more disappointed them is the fact that they had not received answers from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in which, at which stage their complaint, was it rejected, whether it was sufficiently unargued, whether the judge was right, etc., and mainly came to complain. Of course, as an MP, I have no right to react, and that would be considered to interfere with the judicial system, which we have no right to, but it kind of irritates and creates the impression that a citizen has no one to complain about if he is not satisfied with the work of a judge or prosecutor. I'm saying this 96 well-intentioned, there's no media here right now to carry it, so in this part of it, I'm making a commercial, but this one, it's the fact that I've been doing this job for six years. And another one. We are talking about priorities in solving lawsuits, complaints in courts and in prosecutions. Here's what I'm gonna talk about in the D.A.'s office. In a case, one person very close to me was the subject of a prosecutor's observation. Since it was an MP and needed a media campaign, the process was carried out within a month. And to say that there was a check on a one-car box, and then the engine number and the number of gear exchangers that we all know is expendable. And the second case has been going on for a year and a half with the prosecutor, and it's about taking away a person's ability from a person who's not authorized to do this, because, as I know, by law, relatives, etc., and this is about the head of the municipality asking for the removal of a person's ability not working in the municipality. And for a year and a half, the D.A. doesn't have time to end it. And this is where he did it in a month. So this example, which is from personal practice, says that you and the prosecutors and the courts are not exactly in line with this beautifully written report and some of the conclusions that have been made here. What I'm accepting here and I think there's more to be done, so this is your recommendation that I've read, I think they're fine, but there's one more thing I'd like to suggest. To further activate the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to check incompatibility activities with duties. We have a lot of examples, and you and I have one chance to talk about it, that we have lawyers who deal with legal duties, affairs, and that their husbands, in different terms, mean, last names, are investigators in the judiciary. So when the inspector comes into court and examines a review, and his spouse represents, I think it's incompatibility function. Maybe I'm wrong, but I have to tell you that he's revolutionizing it and he's saying -- so what you have to look for, I'm not supposed to say anything there, he's an inspector, I'd better be quiet, I'm gonna process it. So I'd ask that, uh, and you, too, have written such a conclusion, that it should be accounted for, especially because of different last names where a man can't, in conclusion, probably judges have to write where their husbands or wives work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11085	Thank you, Mrs. Rajilić. Jozo Križanović. Well, let me shake you up a little bit, surprise you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11086	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that I am sorry that the debate on the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council comes in relatively bad timing, after I say this, seven hours of work. I consider this a very serious topic and this is one of the few occasions when the BiH Parliament can discuss, not only the data from the report which, by the way, says that this report is quite well done from the point of view of structure, statistics, subjects and efficiency of solving... courts, human resources, etc. However, what I think is missing in the report, and it seems to me that we will be denied in today's debate, is this fact that counterpart Džaferović said that the Constitutional Commission has been discussing this report for 2 hours and it is very bad that such a modest report by the Commission is constitutionally legal for such a rich debate. I suppose there were very good findings and evaluations and suggestions, suggestions, etc. in this debate. Especially in this direction, which is also President 97 of the Council here, what we as a state would have to do as a prevention to facilitate the inflow of, uh, cases in courts, to facilitate the work of courts, the work of the judiciary as a whole. Secondly, it is a bit delicate, but I think this Parliament must speak, and this is the only reason why it should speak in criminal politics in BiH. We have our citizens' objections that courts bring fines for crimes, for crimes in the family, domestic violence, for paedophiles, for, for, for, I don't know, for one serious crime... that goods are criminal policy. It is not the involvement of Parliament or some institution in judicial bodies if it says we are not satisfied with it. Society, lawyers, the whole society is looking for that and that. Secondly, I think it would be good if we had some kind of critical, critical assessment of how effective the prosecution was. What do I mean? You said that, roughly, the case at the municipal court cost, I don't know, 100, at the Cantonal 300, right, somewhere marks. Now what does that involve? How many times has the state been obliged to compensate the defendant for misjudgement or mistrial in court? I don't know how to legally formulate what those categories, uh, are called. Let's see, and on that basis we bring quality assessments, whether we judge people very lightly, and then the process goes up for a year, at the end of the night, the cat, nothing. Now, come on state compensate it, pay it... which is correct. So, I would also like to suggest to the High Council of Justice and Prosecutors that they use their legal obligation and the right to, in this sense, in this direction, initiate and amend existing legislation. It is also the right and obligation of the Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, therefore, to initiate and amend, the procedure of amendments, the amendment of certain legislation that would lead, to say, to this general improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11087	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Lijanović. Here's a short radius, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11088	It's not a replica, it's a occasion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11089	Something is.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11090	On the occasion of the discussion of the esteemed colleague Križanović, just to clarify some things, I think he deserves, so his discussion deserves clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11091	Mr. Lijanović, excuse me for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11092	His, his discussion deserves clarification. So, the man is right, so we've been arguing for two hours, of which the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council spoke for 30 minutes. An hour and a half we spoke to the members of the commission, and when, at first glance, we compared, uh, 98 data with the contents of the report, then we can say that Mr. Križanović, an esteemed colleague, noticed it well. However, if you read the Commission's report in detail, therefore, it contains in itself general qualifications which rely on detailed reading of the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council which is indeed, there is no need to repeat it in the report, and perhaps on some things, to be honest, we would not agree on the commission. Maybe it would be some kind of controversy, and here I'm going to make an open statement about what motivated us to deliver this report, with these three formulations, to Parliament. Much more important than all of this, we as Parliament understand what our obligations are in all of this, and if we get that, as a result, then we will answer all these questions that are, as they are called, asked by distinguished colleagues who, this one, spoke in the discussion. On the one hand, and on the other hand, I want to be honest, I want to encourage, and we all need to encourage people from the judiciary. Let's open this up, so it's not judicial interference if we say we're dissatisfied, that it's not like that, so no one can say that getting involved in the work of the courts and prosecutors is, uh, opening up that kind of dialogue so that we actually have a system that we'll all be satisfied with in BiH. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11093	We have the opportunity, the court and invite us to various, on various occasions, so whoever wants MPs, calls come, can go, uh, and discuss but, of course, here's the right place. Here you go, Mr. Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11094	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. On behalf of the People's Party, on behalf of the People's Party, I would like to thank the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for this professionally prepared report and especially the effects of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in its work since its establishment. But unfortunately, here, as colleagues have said, it is not enough for the needs of BiH. An independent, impartial, up-to-date and professional judiciary is the basis for building every democratic society and every successful state. It is sad and sad that we can see from this report that it is often an obstacle to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to achieve its objectives symbolic financial means, and at the same time we allow the loss of 20 million marks through the external trade deficit. So today as we sit here, our citizens have lost 20 million marks that have gone across the border and will never come back. If we could just stop that money outflow for a week and give it to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, the effects could certainly be far, far greater. The damages caused by the inability to solve cases faster for our economy and citizens are enormous, and waiting for cases in courts also encourages the development of corruption, which is the greatest evil for every democratic society. A few examples with enormous damages, so I don't burden you here today, I'll deliver it to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. For these reasons, I suggest that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council propose amendments to the legal rules governing the longest settlement of cases, which should be several times shorter than the current practice. That they also propose the necessary funds to implement this 99 so that this year they can predict it in the budgets and that this will not be a problem in the future. And with these funds, goals could then be achieved, and this would be a great benefit for both the BiH economy and the citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11095	Thank you, Mr. Lijanović. Jukić Velimir. And we still have a registered Mr. Raguž and Mr. Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11096	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Subject report, here we all estimate that it's done methodologically well, transparently. I think that the content is well filled and can be said, that is, my question is: So, it has not yet been completed, the radical reform of the judicial system in BiH that has resulted in a radical reduction in the number of courts, as well as prosecutors. Courts from 195 to 48, prosecutions from 103 to 19. What are the effects? Therefore, a reduction in costs due to this rationalisation, i.e. a reduction in the number of courts and prosecutors. But what are the effects on the citizens? So, did the BiH citizens have, do they also have how much increased costs due to such a radical reform? About 2 million unsolved items, about half of them in the area of municipal problems. If we take that there are about 150 municipalities in BiH, so each fifth municipality or even less has the seat of one of the courts, I mean, first of all, municipal courts. So in 4 out of 5 municipalities there is no court seat, so citizens will have to travel to another community centre, where the court's headquarters is, in order to do a certain job. Is the practice introduced, whether enough measures are taken, in an organisational sense, to make separate departments of these courts, therefore, to reduce costs. Furthermore, the number of unsolved items, in my opinion very large, and I haven't found, reading this report, how, in what way, in which time will this be solved. I think this is very important and that further poisoning and increasing the number of pending cases is challenging the effective functioning of the judicial system. Furthermore, in efficiency some percentages, or numbers of solved objects, are mentioned. My assessment is that efficiency, especially in some, some kinds of objects and forms of crime, is very low, that the percentage of cases solved is very low. Of course, efficiency can be measured in multiple parameters, for example, the fate of the investigations and cases launched, as a percentage of whether or not it was measured how the investigations and cases started. So, as far as it ended with the suspension, how many by pressing charges, how many by judgment, how many again the verdict confirmed, how many have become executives, how many have been annulled, etc., etc. I think these are all important elements for assessing the efficiency of the judicial system and what, here, I will finally repeat, really, taking into account the fact that today, here we are already working for over 7 hours, and ask for an answer to my already asked question, so because of this rationalization, under the supposed signs, of the judicial system, of this kind of radical reorganisation, I'm curious about how it affected the costs of the citizens? Two million unsolved objects of the road, some costs only increased 10 marks per case due to the need for travel, etc., it's really big, big money. 100 I do not want to repeat what has already been said here, but organised crime, and BiH is also mentioned in the reports of some international organisations as one of the possible or very frequent routes in international trade, crime, etc., I think that particular attention should be paid to that part. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11097	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Before Mr. Raguž begins to ask, we are at the limit of the quorum, to ask for patience for this session today, however, to be completed, this one. Here you go, Mr. Raguž. And those who went out, I hope they'll be back soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11098	I thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. No matter what time has gone by and what we've been doing for a long time, I think this is one of the most important topics in BiH, and in fact, on this issue, is whether BiH is up to this judicial reform, to create an independent, impartial and professional judiciary will depend on its clear future and perspective, and as often as it seems a phrase or rhetoric, but it is indeed so. I'm just going to illustrate it on a few examples. So, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council was founded in 6 months 2004. It's been a month and three years. I think that's enough time to see exactly what was the mandate of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, what were the objectives, which the instruments had at their disposal, which logistics, this one, had to achieve these goals and the results that we have ahead of us. And if we start from the fact that these objectives were, therefore, the adoption of appropriate legislation, the law, that it was the appointment of judges, that it was the re-design and rationalization of the previous judicial system, that it was funding and that it was one efficiency and efficiency in the realization of the case, we see, slightly, that we may only be halfway all together in this country, if we can also give that assessment. And I don't want to miss these opportunities, so that Parliament doesn't warn the public and all the relevant ones, so that's what's waiting for us all if we really want to continue on that path. I'm just going to illustrate it with a few things right now. The effectiveness means 1,300,000 pending cases, inherited a lot, this does not apply and is not tried on the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, but on the state of justice. Well, it's really one, one number that needs us all, really, extremely worried. The second thing, if objects concerning municipal services dominate, then we need to find ways, as legislators, to find mechanisms to exempt it from and free the courts from doing the right things. Here we hear today they're going to be buried in some new objects. Each item is important, it is not for me to make that difference in content and quality, but obviously it should be one of the conclusions, to see how to do the passability of the case and the efficiency of the courts and what the role of the legislator is. And that's the point of considering these reports. The other thing, I'll only touch one point, that's 525 -- the appointment of international judges and prosecutors. We have, both here today and through parliamentary issues and in public, had multiple issues of their status, criteria by which they are named, belongings, wages and everything else. I think this report is insufficient and needs more complete data on this, especially since the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has an exclusive mandate for these issues. It means 101 sets the criteria, to appoint these people, etc. I think, therefore, that we should get a more precise report on their work, their results and everything else. And that is one, this, of, of, of parts that need significantly more quality information for both the public and Parliament and all others. Secondly, the evaluation of the work of judges is point 622 – the evaluation of judges and prosecutors, which is also the mandate of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. And I think, too, that this part of the report, I think, should be, I would say, much more content in terms of what has been done, is the procedure mentioned here, but they also need elements and the quality of that designation and evaluation, and let's see what measures can arise from that one system of evaluations and criteria. I think that's missing this report. And what I would also point out and what I think we all need to know and imagine over it, which is on the third page where it is said – the judicial system is not completely free from political interference. I think this report lacks dimension, whether there is pressure, who is doing these pressures, under which conditions certain court proceedings are being initiated and who is responsible for this matter. I'm not going to give examples here or territorialize it, or nationalize it, I'd have a lot of arguments about it, but I think we should get that information. And finally, here are examples, here is two examples of where it is, where it felt this political influence, but I think this is the most Benign part of the example. Much more serious, uh, I wouldn't want to comment on it without one quality piece of information. And to end, we're here from Mr. Perić, I really believe, and they work as an institution all, of course, uh, for that to take time, they need support, they need, uh, and everything else, but I think that this part that applies to the balance in the ethnic structure, maybe in principle, they can be satisfied and they can accept it, if we look at the overall structure, but when we look at representation in, say, the Brcko or Republika Srpska District, I think that these grades should, I won't say correct, we need to fix it. I think there's a lot of room there and objective reasons for that. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11099	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Here, I think that the topic has received the attention it deserves, that is, this report, and that this House of Representatives, or MPs who have reported it, has really discussed it in the most serious way, and I hope that the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, Mr Perić, has understood in the right way a certain message, certain demands of MPs, and will use it in his work. So, in any case, I suggest that we take this report, take it into account, that we do everything in collaboration with the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council and, of course, that our own responsibility for the overall reform of the judiciary is not omitted, but that we practically highlight it, together with you to produce a result. Here I was kind of thinking about this way to figure this out. So, I'd like to ask you to make a statement about receiving this, with the commission's report, of course. Vote now. Here's to, so with 16 votes to, 2 against, we don't have an entity majority, we just don't have, uh, enough numbers or present, we have five MPs. 102 So, we're left with the alignment, and we're going to bring it together at the College level. It's Mr. Živković. [[Common discussion]] I didn't hear you, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11101	You can't hear
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11102	We've got a quorum, we've counted, so obviously some haven't voted here. [[Common discussion]] I've been begging all day, Mrs. Malić, I've been begging people all day. It'll take five minutes, please. Five minutes for a missus, five minutes for a break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11106	I'll take a few words, I won't be long. I just want to point out, so the Audit Office is one of the key tools of this home for quality management of BiH institutions and other resources that are in BiH's jurisdiction. The reports we analyzed at the previous sessions and adopted by the Audit Office speak about the professional work of the office. In particular, I would like to commend the decision of the Audit Office to begin the work of the performance review, and I propose that free trade agreements with the Republic of Croatia and Serbia be the pilot of the audit projects, and since we have before us the CEFTA Free Trade Treaty, this revision can help us not, perhaps, make the wrong decision when it comes to CEFTA contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11107	Thank you, Mr. Lijanović. Here, the representatives of the Audit Office heard, uh, this initiative, and of course, we can, uh, her and, so to speak, do it in some way and officially, but here I am now inviting you to, therefore, make a statement on this report with, with the acceptance of these two conclusions of the Commission. So under 1. - to enable a smooth process of work, adequate accommodation, space, accommodation office for reviewing the financial operations of the BiH institution needs to be provided. We've already done something about this, and I believe we'll figure it out in due course. And below 2. - an audit of the operations of the BiH Financial Audit Office should be carried out in accordance with existing legal provisions. So, reviewing the office itself. Please, here, I hope we understand each other. Prepare to vote. Vote now, therefore, for the report and the Commission's proposed conclusions. So, with 28 votes for, without prejudice, 2 abstentions, enough entity majority, I conclude that we adopted a Business Report on the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions for 2006 with those 2 conclusions proposed by the Commission, which I have dictated in the record. 104 We move to the point, thank the representatives of the Audit Office. We're going to the fourteenth point, so it's about Ad. 14. Proposal for a decision on the establishment and part-round of inter-parliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries I don't think I have much reason to remind you of what this is about. We have long had the need for such an act that will lay down rules and principles because there are a number of initiatives and interests in interparliamentary co-operation with parliaments of several dozen countries etc. So this is going to be a legal basis, or legal framework within which we should do this. The Foreign Affairs Commission has delivered a positive opinion on the proposal for a decision. Is there a need for discussion, does anyone have anything to say about this, suggests? If not, I'm practically closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Stand by. Vote now. With 27 votes for, against nothing, 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have established, or adopted, a Decision establishing and delirious interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries. Therefore, conditions have been created to move towards the realization of all the initiatives that exist for this interparliamentary co-operation with a number of countries in the world. Of course, of course, but here we can start right now. So let's go to point fifteen. Ad. 15. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to an interresor working group to prepare the text of the draft law amending and supplementing the law, (Operation law, Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions and the Law on the financing of political parties)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11110	You can't hear
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11111	Well, they'll all come here and into commissions, etc. So, with 24 votes for, Gordana, help me out, this one. With 24 votes in favour of, 1 against, 2 abstentions, I find enough entity majority to conclude that we have just named Milorad Živković, Nik Lozančić and Šefik, Šefik Džaferović, as an interrest group for the making of these laws. And we have one more point left, so point sixteen that we've discussed a lot. Ad. 16. Giving consent to ratification: a) an agreement on a military grant between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and a financial protocol relating to financial assistance between the BiH Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Republic of Turkey; I don't think I have to read this, Rajk, this has already been read in the text. So now that we're not wasting time, so now it's, I'm always trying to have for the record, you know, so now it's up to us to decide the methodology that we've been doing before, this one, we're celebrating. Shall we vote on this in a package? But let us plead, so, please, prepare for the vote, how shall we vote? Who's to vote in the package and who's against, of course and abstention, say? With 28 votes for, 1 against, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, we have decided that, on granting consent to ratify these agreements, we are voting in the package. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 106 Of course, I failed to say that we have received a report from the committee responsible, which is a recommendation. With 28 votes in favour, without prejudice, 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, we have reached a decision to give consent to ratification. Should I count them, Rajk? You don't have to, okay, thank you. This is how we exhausted the agenda of today's 9th session. I thank you for your patience and remind you that next session will be on June 13th. Then we'll have the address of Švarc Šilingo at the plenary room, but we'll have our regular session. Calls and notifications, agendas will be on time, 13.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-23-0.u11112	At 11:00, the session was finished at 6:00.
