ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1042	...present officials of the Council of Ministers, the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you all and open the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today's session is attended by 12 delegates, four from the Bosniak people, four from the Croatian people and four from the Serbian people. Mr. Mladen Ivanić, Alma Čolo and Ivo Miro Jović justified their absence, since they were officially prevented from attending the session. I would like to thank all of you for your understanding, given that we moved this session instead of 11 am at 10 am and for the ceremony of paraphrasing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. I hope we can finish this session by 11:30. For the 10th session, I suggest the next 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 9th session of the House of Nations; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act); 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina – First Reading, Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Proposal for a law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development – first reading, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for an internal audit law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – first reading, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the debate at the 7th joint session of both homes; 8. Mensur Šehagić's appointment as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions commission, the BiH Council of Ministers' proposal. This is a harmonised draft agenda for the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1044	Dear Chairman, allow me to elaborate briefly on why I would like to place as the 9th item of the agenda: the election of delegates of the House of Peoples in the Ad hoc Commission for the appointment of the Ombudsman for Human Rights. 2 It is known that BiH has not yet resolved the issue of the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH, that the competition that was called in the spring of this year has been annulled, and that it is necessary, as soon as possible, to call a new one, so that this country will not be without such a significant and important institution. I remind you that the procedure at the House of Representatives is in progress and I think this is the fastest way for the House of Peoples to respond with three members of the three constituent nations who will make up the Joint Ad hoc commission to elect an Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1045	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for the agenda? Since no one is answering for a word, I think this proposal is a setup and that we should choose delegates in the ad hoc commission, given that he did it, I think, and the House of Representatives, as far as I'm informed. Can we adopt the proposed agenda with this supplement, 9th point: The election of delegates to the Ad hoc commission to elect BiH's Ombudsman for human rights. Who Is For? We must vote as we have so far. Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? I find that we unanimously adopted the agenda. Moving to the first item of the agenda: Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions We have received one answer here to Mrs Dušanka Majkić's question. I want to ask if Mrs. Majkić is satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1047	Dear Chairman, I got the answer I knew at the time I asked the question. So nothing fundamentally new is said in response, so that answer means nothing to me. I'm interested in what is intended to be done further, because the answer contains literally the state of the day the question is asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1048	Does that mean that, I don't know if there's anyone here?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1049	No, I think here, that's my position on the answer to that question and that doesn't change a thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1050	Okay, thank you very much. Now we're moving on to delegate questions. Any delegates? 3 Here is Mrs. Majkić, and Zoran Koprivica, and Hilmo Neimarlija, and Adem Ibrahimović, and Hazim Rančić. There's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1051	Since it is known that “the Official Journal of BiH” still does not have a regulated legal status, since this Parliamentary Assembly has not received a report on the work of the institution for 2006, I am asking a question which I refer to the Council of Ministers: - Please advise Ministers to answer me what has been done so far by finding an adequate legal status solution of the “Official Journal of BiH” Sarajevo? I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1052	Okay. Thank you very much. Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1053	Dear Mr Chairman, honourable colleagues and others present, I would ask the question of the College: - When will the agenda of this House find the Proposal for a decision to form the Council of National Minorities at the Parliament of BiH and the Ethical Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, since one and the other document is prepared, that the procedures to be preceded by the Houses' sessions are final on the Commission, so I propose that at the first next session, these two issues are discussed for several years, both of which have been discussed, but have never been completed in the procedure, so I propose that we have both on the agenda for the next session. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1054	Okay, thank you very much. Next, who's answering for a word? Is it Rudo Vidović or who answered? All right, then, Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1055	The chairman and vice-president, fellow delegates, guests, a new Administrative Centre of the Government of RS opened in Banja Luka on 21 November. The Orthodox religious act of awareness of the new seat of the RS government was carried out. The rite of Consciousness was performed by the bishop of the zvorničko-tuzlanski-Vasilije Vassili, with the service of the priests of the Banja Luka diocese. The awareness of the Administrative Centre of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the ceremony, whose original religious value and spiritual significance I do not question, is an eclectic act of anti-Daytonic violation of the BiH Constitution guaranteeing the equality of peoples and citizens and barring discrimination on the basis of religious membership and opinions, and is also an eclectic case of violations of the Law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in BiH, in which churches and religious communities are separated from the state and by which all churches and religious communities in BiH are equalised in rights and obligations. The law determines the separation of churches and religious communities from the state closer, first of all, so that the state cannot recognise the status of the state faith of any religion, nor the status of the state church or the religious community of any church or religious community, and discrimination based on religion or 4 convictions is defined as exclusion, restriction, prioritization, abandonment or any other distinction that has a goal or can result in the elimination or reduction of recognition of equal enjoyment and the achievement of human rights and fundamental freedoms in civil, political, economic, social and cultural matters. The government's administrative centre in the Republic of Slovenia, through the Orthodox religious act of awareness, received a religious-confessional feature and at the same time lost its original, worldly, civilian determination. By confessional marking of the new RS government headquarters, RS citizens are, as members of the political community in which the RS government exercises power, divided on a religious basis. For musliman, Catholics, Jews, non-human churches and religious communities, atheists, agnostics and religious indifferents, the message has been sent that citizens of second order should feel at the headquarters of the Government and before the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The question I refer to the High Representative, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of RS reads: - Who is responsible for making the anti-Dayton decision on giving a religious mark to the Administrative Centre and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and what will the High Representative, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do to eliminate the negative consequences of this act, particularly among Bosniak and Croatian returnees to RS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1056	Okay. Now let's go, Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1057	I asked this question... a joint session that was to be held or held in the 11th month, and I was abroad and I didn't have a chance to read it and, as I didn't get a written reply, I'm going to send it back to the Council of Ministers. So, it's the Excise Act, so I ask: - Why is it good for this country, or its economy, to have the Excise Act on which domestic coffee roasts are charged excise twice and when importing raw coffee and after frying on fried coffee, unlike the importer of the fried coffee that pays excise duty only for fried coffee on imports?; by which excise duty on imported ethanol is charged as if it were imports of heavy alcoholic beverages and when are domestic companies importing it as a propagatory?; at what level does excise duty, when importing tobacco processing into our country, be calculated at the same height that excise duty is calculated on domestic tobacco processing, while according to the Croatian Excise Act, our cigarettes exported to Croatia are calculated at up to five times the amount of excise cigarettes in Croatia? So obviously someone thinks this is good, because it hasn't been difficult to apply it for four years, so I know why it's good!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1058	Okay, thank you. Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1059	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my dissatisfaction by not getting an answer. I asked the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Rule 147(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the 5th People's House, within 30 days, to submit a reply in writing. Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers has such a relationship with the delegate and the House of Peoples, and here after several months have not delivered their response. And my question was what would the Council of Ministers do to make a huge amount of funds, a 16 million KM circus, spent on paying rents for BiH institutions to do so in order to reduce that amount in a way that either builds new buildings or that the existing state property is being placed in BiH institutions? Unfortunately, I didn't get the answer! I'm going to ask a question today as well as a colleague. At a joint session, I asked the question but the answer was not given, because I was not present at the session and this time I repeat it: - At the borders of BiH with neighbours, there are many places suitable for illegal crossing people, smuggling and smuggling goods. What is the Ministry of Security doing to prevent illegal crossings and smuggling, and do you have information on the heights of the damages caused by illegal crossings and smuggling? So the question is addressed to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1060	Okay, thank you. That's one emergency and one question, right? An emergency response. Is anyone else answering, any delegate questions? If not, I'm concluding this agenda point. Here, we will work through our secretariat to provide answers to these questions that were asked earlier and certainly forward the questions that were given today. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. The adoption of the 9th session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word? Any objections to the record? If not, can we adopt the 9th-session record? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted the Record of the 9th Regular Session. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1064	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow delegates, honored guests, today we have been facing a very important law that has been considered at different levels for a long time. I remind you that this law has, on several occasions, been the subject of a competent commission, so the Commission for Finance and the Budget in which I am chaired, and I remind you that this law has led to a public debate, that there have been many different views and opinions on the subject, but from the basis of implementing that BiH has such a law on public procurement that it is a brake in the work of institutions and that it is a law which represents a fundamental lack of reference in almost all the audit reports of BiH institutions. Because of this and given the Commission's alert attention, which has been very much concerned with this law, I want to tell you, it means that you see that the position of the committee responsible in the vote has been such that this law has passed but, therefore, I am telling you on behalf of, as chairman of the Club of Serbian Delegates that, on our part, this law will not be supported and the arguments why it will not be supported on the principles are the following. Therefore, the basic Public Procurement Act was adopted in 2004 and contains 57 members. The institutions responsible for public procurement are, under the law, the Public Procurement Agency and the Office for examining complaints that still have problems in operation. The proposal for this law, which is before us, so the proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Procurement, which came into parliamentary procedure, contains 32 members, which changes 56% of the Law. The Board of Appeal, as the second institution responsible for public procurement, has made 13 amendments not adopted by the Agency for Public Procurement and, if we were to add these two groups of amendments, it is about 80% of the laws of the amendments, 7 which were created as a result of the experience in the application of the Law on Public Procurement. I remind the members of the House that the single rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions require, so Article 46(3) says: If more than 50% of the law is amended, it is necessary to approach the adoption of a new law. What exactly are the shortcomings of this law? On the importance of public procurement arrangements, it says that a billion and 200 million marks per public procurement contract were concluded in BiH at all levels in 2006. The World Bank's Report on the subject of BiH and... update stands a special point regarding public procurement, which says: Public procurement remains weaker... in practice. Despite the common Law on Public Procurement, the provisions of the law are contrary in several places, resulting in incompetent procurement. It is evident that knowledge and understanding of the law has not yet fully reached the ministries and agencies, hence contract authorities for supply control and have not yet fully functioned. The Agency for Public Procurement is not fully functional, as is the Office for the Review of Appeals. The following points are inserted after point (b) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article: The text of the law is termologically unedited. For one concept in the law, multiple terms appear. It is unadjusted to other legislation, often unclear, which creates confusion with the contractual authorities and with the bidders themselves. The amendments and additions to the laws that are before us only regulate partial improvements that... do not touch the essence of the law. The amendments and additions are also not covered by any proposal from the Office to consider complaints as another institution responsible for the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. This applies, therefore, to 13 amendments aimed at embedding the minimum procedural provisions in the public procurement procedure which regulate the appeal procedure, the deadline for making a decision by appeal, the merger of the procedure, the time limit for handling the application office, the delivery... abroad, the postponement of the execution of the final decision of the Office, etc. 2. Long complicated and in some provisions unclear procedures for the supply of goods, goods and services, result in overruns of the budget cycle, financial losses, timely inadequate implementation of certain projects and others. 3. Some solutions are incompatible with the existing BiH legal system. Some solutions are directly contrary to the General Administrative Procedure Act. 4. Evidence of errors, both technical and poor English translation, create confusion in interpreting the law itself. 5. The public debate held in 11.9.2007 showed that contract authorities do not understand the law and mistakes are made from the very publication of the tender. Six. A large number of complaints talk about the lack of training of contract authorities, as well as the lack of accuracy of individual contract provisions for suppliers, service providers, contractors. They say there have been over 1,000 complaints so far. To my question: When will the contracting authorities, or BiH institutions, be able to pass the cycle of education for the procurement process?, The Office, or the Public Procurement Agency, not in charge of this, but in the affairs of this type of education are engaged by private, commercial companies, which is absurd for such a law not to depend on some of the state institutions. Therefore, the Agency for Public Procurement must have greater powers and responsibilities in respect of the training of contracting authorities and suppliers as well as monitoring in the public procurement process. So, I said now it's what private agencies do. And this, in addition, speaks to the observations set out in the audit reports. In 99% of these institutions, the Public Procurement Agency has no responsibility but it has only some kind of recommendation. So there is no fundamental decision that is related to this cycle. 8 Next, 8 / 8 No effective decision on complaints has been provided, respecting the essence of the law, the need to provide a rational solution to the spending of funds as well as the functioning of public procurement. Nine. Cities and municipalities are obliged to call a tender, even for services of public interest for which public enterprises are established, e.g. waste of waste, supply of electricity, gas, water, which is obvious nonsens, because this way these companies can lose their jobs. The bill contains more than 50% changes and additions to the basic law. Also, the presidents of the Public Procurement Agency and its branches believe that this proposal did not cover all necessary improvements in the text. 12. There are no proposals to improve the text of the Office for the Review of Appeals, especially those reached by the Office during the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. On the basis of the above, I propose - and, therefore, the Serbian club will vote in such a way as not to accept the principles of the Amendments and Supplements Act – and at the same time I propose to adopt the following conclusion: (1) Given the experience gained in BiH in the meantime during the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, it is necessary to access the urgent creation of a new law on public procurement by domestic experts, which will include solutions to best practice, in compliance with the country's legislation. (2) It is the obligation of the Council of Ministers to form a working group within eight days of the day of the adoption of this conclusion to draft a new draft law on public procurement of BiH. (3) In the working group for the drafting of the draft law referred to in Article (2) of this conclusion, proven experts in the field of public procurement should be appointed, as follows: 1. Dženit Fočo – Public Procurement Agency, 2. Ostoja Travar – Public Procurement Agency, Banja Luka, 3. Sonja Čubela – Public Procurement Agency, Mostar branch, 4. Amir Pilav – Office for Appeals, Sarajevo, 5. Hajrudin Buza – Representative of the contract body BH Post office Sarajevo, 6. Stipe Petričević – representative of Croatian Post Office Mostar, 7. Drago Vujanović – President of the Contracting Body Elektroprivreda RS, Banja Luka, 8. Professor Veljko Trivun – Faculty of Law Sarajevo, 9. Milan Zjajić – Law Office, Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Sarajevo and 10. One representative of municipalities and cities. (4) The working group referred to in Article 2 of this conclusion is obliged to draw up a proposal for a new law on public procurement within 30 days. (5) When drawing up the draft law, the task force will take care of the need to give the Public Procurement Agency greater powers and responsibilities regarding the training of contracting authorities and suppliers as well as the monitoring of the procurement process. (6) It is recommended that a SIGMA representative be called in the work of the working group as a representative of the European Commission in the advisory role. (7) Costs of working groups shall be borne by the Agency for Public Procurement. 9 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1065	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1066	Mr. Chairman, on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, I would like to say the following. Since it is the first reading, we should talk today about compliance with the Constitution, then the principles of this law that are on the agenda and the necessity of its adoption. When it comes to constitutionality, therefore in compliance with the Constitution, our competent commission has given its position and has not disputed this law. They believe and rightly believe that this law is in accordance with our Constitution. When it comes to the necessity of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, I would like to say the following. Therefore, it is true that in November 2004, a valid basic text of the Public Procurement Act was published and it is true that we know in practice that it is causing certain problems in application. It is precisely these problems that all those who apply it and who are told by the distinguished colleague Majkić – as she said it was about a law that causes certain brakes in the work of the institutions, then that the Agency and the Office for the Review of Appeals do not function for certain reasons, then that there are conflicting provisions in it, too, that the amendment of the Office for the Review of Appeals is not accepted, that this law is contrary to the Law on Administrative Procedure, that it is necessary to prescribe jurisdiction in implementing the education of all those applying this law, and that we have a more effective decision of the Office for Appeals itself which is a second-degree body (or because of its failure or because of certain procedures that need to be even more precisely prescribed), as well as that not all the amendments or additions contained in the public debate held in this Hall are the right which are the reasons which speak in the need to be adopted in the law and the first paragraph of law, that we are necessary in order to adopt the law, the law, and the firstly read the law, and the law to read the law. When it comes to the principles of the Amendment Law and the additions of the Law on Public Procurement, so all 32 of its members individually and the law as a whole, I am responsible for saying that they are in accordance with the principles contained in the basic text of the law, and they are prescribed in Article 1. The law on public procurement, so let me read to you, to remind you all together what principles this is about. So: This law establishes a system of public procurement in BiH, the rights, duties and responsibilities of participants in the procurement and procurement control process in order to ensure the most efficient way of using public funds in view of the purpose and subject-matter of public procurement. So the principle is that these funds, public funds, want to be used effectively. The second principle is: Implementation of procurement and award of public procurement contracts by contracting authorities, in accordance with the procedures laid down in this law. Therefore, that it is not possible to work independently from the institution to the institution, but that everyone who spends those public funds must respect the procedure prescribed by this law. Then: to take all necessary measures for this contractual authority to ensure fair and active competition – I apologize, a little less I see – fair and active competition among potential suppliers, then, with equal treatment of non-discrimination and transparency. 10 So these are the principles contained in Article 1. Laws and Amendments Acts... The law on public procurement shall not in any part deviate from the principles laid down in the basic text of the law. These are the reasons why I ask all my colleagues and colleagues to accept this law today, because this will allow us to repair a number of things in the follow-up procedure that institutions applying this law are complaining about. So we'd have an even more efficient use of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1067	It's a replica, isn't it? Mrs. Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1068	Neither the club of delegates of the Serbian people nor myself, as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, are we the irresponsible person who will make such a terrible decision. It is scary and to say that it will not support such a significant law, and that there are no really good arguments. Dear counterpart Rančić, I told him at first: the law has already passed 50%, because according to the rules, the unique rules for making legal rules, it is already against itself. That's one reason. Another reason, a bunch of amendments from all institutions, and we saw that after a public debate. Please, these are all the amendments that came to me after the public debate. What, what's that law gonna look like? So, I think it's much less bad that this law -- which I'm sure you all have an observation, that there's not one person sitting here who has no objection to that law, that this law that we've come to more with the help of foreigners than we've done, that in these two years, we've used it as an experience that can be -- so, new to make, a new law that can be the fruit of domestic experts, that within 30 days, they make a law according to this country, that there is no other way. I agree, the principles of the kind you were talking about stand, but it's my basic principle that I, the new amendments, which are here, can't affect this, because it will go to: we will have 200 amendments to a law that has 57 members. So it's against that law, I'm that act is against this law. So, if there were any micron possibilities to fix anything in the amendment phase, not to be a monster of the law, I would vote first, because as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, I have an obligation to maybe double the measure before I cut it off. Now, in that sense, it is my request that within 30 days, with the people I have numbered, who are the best-quality people, who can contribute here, from all three nations, join the creation of a new law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1069	Okay, thank you very much. Dear delegate Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1070	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers and others present, so I am not convinced that this debate will help, but I feel obliged to explain some of the views that have been profiled, first at the Committee on Budgets and Finance, and then, in a very broad form, it was later applied in a public debate led to this agenda point. 11 So if I tried to connect these two discussions, the argument made by Mrs. Majkić and, on the other hand, Mr. Rančić, then I would say they were both right. They are right because it is obvious, in particular what Mrs Majkić mentioned in the review report on the revision of BiH institutions, we have always stumbled in finding irregularities, we have always stumbled on two obstacles that you will inevitably find in each report. It's the Public Procurement Act and it's the State Service Agency. So obviously these two laws produced, with good intentions that certainly existed with the legislators of these laws, produced so much work trouble and so many blockades that we had to try to do something. Not to mention that the law is inconclusive, that it is contradictory in certain provisions, that it is multi-sense, not ambiguous, but multi-sense in its formulations. But it turned out to be an inadmissible bottleneck that became a block of real life. Real life can't stand because we haven't, we haven't done a proper regulation or we don't have enough effective system to change that law. So there are hundreds of reasons for this law to change, hundreds of reasons to make a new law. And we at the Committee on this issue have long and persistently convinced ourselves, explaining our views and at the Committee we have made a decision and we have proposed this House to accept the principles of the law and to let it go into further procedure, believing that we can all, together on the basis of experience and on the basis of the consultation of the profession, come to some amendments that would remove the worst solutions in this law that produce the very difficult consequences of economic, functional and each other. And for that reason, I'm still committed to trying, so it doesn't have to mean we're gonna make it! So, you should let, in my opinion, the law into phase two. To try to intervene at the most painful point of this law which, experience clearly... points to them and, if we succeed, given the transition from one year to another, it would be very useful to try to facilitate all the holders of these obligations in the public procurement process to work with less ambiguity, with less confusion, which does not exclude, although it includes what Mrs. Majkić's words and the name of the Serbian Representatives' Club here that after living time, not in a month, because I do not believe within a month – whenever anyone proposes to me, some commission that will do something within a month, I doubt that deadline, given all the complexity of our decision-making processes – but I am sure that, for example, this regulated law is being followed, so that after half a year or some other perhaps more appropriate deadline, a shorter one, will form a commission that will access to a whole new law. Now, when we're ready, and life goes on, so I'm committed to this model: let's try to fix in this law what we can, and I'm not giving up on doing a whole new law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1071	Thank you very much. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba reporting further.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1072	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, today we have a legal text in front of us whose application in current practice and life has created a number of problems. The existing law has a lot of indetermination and failures that are necessary in the changes and additions and in the coming period. What is significant is that the existing changes and additions that are offered and which we have ahead of us are only cosmetic beauty of the Law and do not respond to a number of essential questions that are being asked and which need to be addressed. Mrs. Majkić made some of those remarks. Of course, I have here a number of these remarks in front of me and I can't help but say some of them. So, in the next period, this issue needs to be approached in a completely different way. I believe that the formation of this task force is a complete setup and that only this way and the creation of a new legal text can solve existing problems that we have, and not in any way in such a way that through the changes and the 12 additions we are trying to change something. So, instead of leaving, by modelling the World Bank rules, the possibility to ask the bidders in writing that, after opening, for example, within three days of delivering the missing document, it happens that it is only looking to be found, in practice speaking, even one missing document required by law, to declare the document incomplete. Neither the commercial priorities of supply are clarified by law. It is still not explicitly prescribed how many valid offers are required in the open procedure. So these are just some remarks and some questions that are necessary to resolve, and so at this point, we think that the variant of access to a new law is far more acceptable than the variant that changes and additions try to fix the proposed text of the law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1073	Anyone else answering from the delegates? Okay, Adem Ibrahimpašić, so there's a representative of the ministry here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1074	Well, I would, I'd just like to say that I'd like a lot more to have the chance to give amendments to this law than not to have one. So I am for the wealth of these offers that will come from all of us and from many around can only contribute to making this law much better, rather than giving it back to some... circle of people, 10, 11, it doesn't matter. We had some experts on the outside, so we have what we have. Well, then, from that yuppie that we all offer, we get what's best, we do it as Bog commands. Should we call it a new law or this, as Rajić says, changes, that, that is irrelevant to me! It's important that this text is as good as possible, and it'll be better if we all have the right to give some kind of story and comment on what we have right now. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1075	Here, thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić, more replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1076	One sentence to say. If these additions to the Public Procurement Agency were given greater authority and responsibility for the process and training of contract authorities and monitoring of the procurement process, I would welcome it and say there is a chance. Imagine, one agency that is responsible... for such a serious process, it has only an advisory role, non-binding. The contract authority can say, well, I've been informed, but I'm going the way I'm going. You are yourselves witnessing how many illogical things there are when it comes to accommodation, here's our accommodation that we talked about on our commissions, when it comes to some public procurement processes where we have to go to a more expensive variant and, in the end, I remember well one man who said here at a public hearing - never more corruption in the area of public procurement than ever since this law was passed. So, you have no guarantee that this law will be the same as, no matter how many amendments, which is against the law again, where, by the way, new amendments are coming, this serious area of procurement will be resolved. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1077	Okay, thank you very much. Does this representative of the motionor have a need to explain anything? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1078	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, gentlemen and ladies of the delegates, I welcome you and I take the opportunity to say: the representatives of the House of Nations were also present at a conference of SIGMA held in September of the month when it was discussed exactly this proposal of the Law amending the Law on Procurement, because we were doing these changes in collaboration with technical assistance. These changes and additions should present a further improvement in the current text. I would like to point out that the existing text of a law that is difficult language, however, is good solutions and good practice results and is in line with EU directives. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law also represent, to a certain extent, further compliance with the Directives, but also remove certain bottlenecks observed during the application of the Law. Mrs. Majkić mentioned accommodations. The amendments and additions just proposed provide that Annex II services are eliminated from the mandatory application of the procedures laid down by law, so that the contract can be awarded in a fully simplified procedure, with several suppliers. More suppliers, more contracts with multiple suppliers are also introduced. What I would just like to point out here: this is a market-related area, and the market is a variable category. In the European Commission, procurement regulations change every four to five years. So any change will be conditional on changes in the law. Are we going to make a new law every time or are we going to adopt these amendments and follow the effects of these amendments and ultimately make a decision to prepare a new law? I'm just going to tell you the current situation in the region: Serbia passed the Law on Procurement in 2002, had three changes and now... should adopt a new law, with the start of application from 2008; Croatia also passed the Law on Public Procurement in 2002, has had three amendments and has received a new law that began with the beginning of application from 1.1.2008. So, go every time to making a new law or simply feel what's going on on the ground and make decisions accordingly. All I can say is, it's up to you to make the final decision. But so much in front of the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1079	Okay, thank you very much. I think we have these two points of view here. How do we solve this problem that we all claim exists and that we have one law that... doesn't meet the needs? Now, is this the way to go through the adoption of this law in the first reading, so the amendments to make a significant improvement in the text? To ask the promoter to respect those remarks that he did not apply in that public debate or to return to the new law, these are two concepts of different thinking! We can talk here now, convince ourselves. I am personally closer to this first concept to adopt the law in the first reading, so that we should task the promoter to respect those amendments that are not previously respected and normally through the very amendment phase to improve this as well as possible. But here, I think you should eventually conclude the debate so we can approach the vote and... we have here in the Rules of Procedure a certain phase when we can and as a College agree, etc., evaluate. If he wants someone normal, he wants to discuss it, we can give him a word, but here. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1080	So, the representatives of the Public Procurement Agency themselves, and I am particularly sorry that there is no one from the Office to consider complaints, have said that this is only part of the one that is respected and that is further imposed on me. The agency did not accept to take into account what the Office suggested and only for the reason that 56% of the law has already been amended, and by adding this would be 80%, that is, it means absolutely the fall of the law. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So they said that this bill doesn't touch the essence, some things have changed, here are some things are... but these are not so important things that will significantly improve the process of public procurement. Secondly, I would like Mrs. Fočo to say what is the essential problem: - How does her institution, or how does her committee decide? What decisions can she, as director of the Agency, make in the first place? It cannot implement decisions agreed together, meaning the Public Procurement Agency with branches in Mostar and Banja Luka, cannot implement basic decisions! Because there's a group of ballets out there that won't allow her to make any decisions that are essentially related to repairing her condition at the Agency. We've seen a man who's been putting things out here that he doesn't care about! He came to the position of the Committee at the Public Procurement Agency and he's acting, it's for his place, while his mandate is and he's not interested in anything else. What kind of change does he have in mind? I expected Mrs. Fočo to talk about it. So please don't just talk about what suits you! The part that doesn't suit you is much bigger, I expected you to talk more about it and please a little more about your honesty in front of this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1081	It's good. I think there's a lot of this, too, that when I listened to you who would probably respect the House of Nations as an amendment in this second phase of the debate, no matter what it is so far, but here's a good one. I mean, it's best if we approach the vote now, if no one ever answers their word again.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1082	We have two suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1083	We do. Okay, we have a proposal first to vote on this law as proposed and how it is in line with the Commission's report. Who is it that the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH... is adopted in the first reading? That's one, two, three, four, five, six, eight. Eight votes "yes". Who Is “against ”? We have four votes "against". We're going after the entities now, right? There's no entity majority in this Rules of Procedure that we adopted. Article 73(3) states: If most votes do not include one third of the votes of the delegates or members of the territory of each entity, the chairman and his deputies will meet as commission and try to ensure agreement within three days of the vote. 15 There is no Lord Ivanić. We will have to stop here with this agenda point in order to provide an opportunity for Mr Ivanic to come out of the way within three days, to try to bring this issue into line. I mean, that's the only thing in the book. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] After that comes attitude (4), possibly, if we do not agree. Moving to the next item of the agenda, that's the fifth point: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development – First Reading, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1086	I would like to say that the Club of Serbian Delegates – except for Mr. Šaraba, I do not know his position, he will present his own position – to ask for the opinion of the Constitutional Commission to be not accepted and to return to the review, for the reason I believe this law should be accepted, because it allows BiH to join pre-accession EU funds, to make a register of agricultural land, to do the work that is important for BiH to attract certain funds for agriculture. Therefore, regardless of the first wave, and it was probably crucial why the Constitutional Commission adopted a negative view: that a package of constitutional amendments that had not been adopted, among other things, mentioned and that there would have been a agriculture ministry at BiH level and that Serbian representatives had said that we would not unpack constitutional amendments, choose what we liked, what we do not like, but this law does not violate anything that could be negative for the RS, so I believe that this opinion should be returned to the Constitutional Commission and re-examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1087	Thank you very much. The Honorable delegate of Slobodan Šaraba, then here's Božo. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba has applied, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1088	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to make my point. So, I am expressing dissatisfaction with the fact that the said law is being considered in the assembly procedure until the entity is declared. Namely, agriculture is an entity's exclusive jurisdiction and any consideration of this law constitutes 16 infringements of Article III point 5. The BiH Constitution where it has been explicitly established that BiH will take over the powers agreed by the entities. Since agriculture is an entity's exclusive jurisdiction, I believe that the above-mentioned legal text cannot be considered in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly until the entities make their decisions about it. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1089	Thank you very much. Dear delegate Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1090	... My colleague Šaraba has already taken half my line, so I wanted, in my best interest, to replicate Mrs. Majkić, and in a similar way, I spoke at a joint session those three days when we discussed some global issues far more important than these partial ones today, individually. I'd like to ask in the future, so I like this argument from Mr. Šaraba now, she's perfectly correct. It's not in accordance with the Constitution and I do, that's why I don't accept something. Don't keep serving us a failed April package. He's not a document, he doesn't exist, he has no legal legitimacy and that document here exploit, from my point of view, is a provocation for us who were against that package. So we're talking from the point of view of legality. What Mr. Šaraba said, I accept that argument; if there is no legal basis, if it is an entity's jurisdiction, not a state, okay. And leave the April package! Whoever wants it, make it a picture of the clocks, look at it every day. And those of us who were against him, it hurts us if we serve that April package every day. Mrs. Majkić, for the best of all, please don't do this again.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1091	Okay, here's a replica of Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1092	I'm sure that's what's hitting you, and I'm sure as hell one of the parties responsible for the failed package.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1093	That's what you think, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1094	Please, I listened to you, be correct! And that this country has gone backwards for a year because we don't have a constitutional package! I'm sure a lot of people are struggling with that problem, but it's already a matter of their conscience. This law exclusively treats synchronisation and coordination, does not introduce the ministry that was scheduled. So it talks only about that segment that applies to BiH being able to join these pre-accession funds. So what do we say now, we don't want the money, right? So, an extremely pragmatic position and I know that the Constitutional Commission, which includes our members, did not have enough information before voting on the Constitutional Commission. So these are arguments and, please, when I interpret the views of the Serbian club, I don't expect any club to interpret whether or not I needed it! I respect the attitudes of all clubs, and I don't care about them. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1095	Here comes Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1096	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1097	It's a replica, isn't it? Wait a minute. Adem. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1098	I'd really like to respect you. I have not led the controversy of your opinion, Mrs. Majkić, nor have I thought of it. I run the controversy with argument. I accept the argument, which is based on that something is not in accordance with the law, that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, okay. Whoever's responsible, who's responsible for this, it's a matter of perception, you keep to yourself the opinion that it's our fault that we stood up to the April package. I also consider myself my own party responsible for that. And let's leave that perception. So we're talking about whether it's legal or not! So, I have nothing to object to Mr. Šarab. He says -- he's not in BiH's jurisdiction -- let it be seen whether or not he is! And to say that by desire, that's what we have different desires here, so we can't make them happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1099	Honored delegate Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1100	Here I am, no matter how this is over, I just want to remind you that the only common policy in the EU, since its creation, has long been a agricultural policy. And yes and today: out of 100% of the EU's resources, 60% go to agriculture. And for us to be fools, we can't make it up to anyone. That invoice is going to fail. Well, let me just point out. No matter how it ends!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1101	Mr. Rudo Vidović, distinguished delegate... Branko Zrno. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1102	I, Mr. Chairman, will apologize. I'll give up the story because others took my story. I checked in second, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1103	I'm sorry, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1104	But on this one, it looks like the technique isn't working with us, no problem, Mr. Chairman. I... I just wanted to say... I'm not going to talk about new ministries or anything else, I'm just going to find out that we really need this law. And this one right here is because of what's going to happen today and because of a phase that follows what's going to happen today. Those who at least had access and pre-accession funds based on that, and we know well what happened in Hungary, especially in Poland, etc. Not to choose the words, they went well. So, to us, this law is our chance. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1105	Thank you very much. I don't know if there's a Hilmo Neimarlija here?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1106	Of course, for our home, the Commission's opinion is not binding, and we could plead against it, if there are more of us in order to need this law and that law-making has a constitutional basis. However, I am obliged to inform the House, however, that the Commission has worked in incomplete composition and that the Commission's decision that this law does not have a constitutional basis has not been unanimous and I would ask that this proposal be respectedMajkić so that we do not delegate it, so to speak, and we have the right to do so, the Constitutional Commission's decision on the constitutional basis of this law. I would support this proposal to - given these new arguments, among other things, and the arguments made by counterpart Ibrahimpašić and Professor Zrno - return to reviewing the Constitutional Commission. Because we're going to split up in a statement about the Constitutional Commission's position. We were also divided on the Constitutional Legal Commission which did not work in full composition, so it would be better to return this one, in fact, to accept my colleague Majkić's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1107	Okay, let's approach the vote. I suppose that this bill of law by the Council of Ministers has not been referred to the procedure until it has asked the governments of the entity... but, see, we should vote. First, in order to vote on Mrs Majkić's proposal, we must first vote on the Constitutional Commission proposal. You know, if we don't accept the position of the Constitutional Commission, then we can make this second proposal, this one that Mrs. Majkić and Zrno and Neimarlija have suggested. So who's in favour of accepting the Constitutional Commission's opinion? To accept? Who's to accept, here's to see? Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? _________(?) In this vote, I was "yes," I apologize. Okay, you're in. With one vote “for, ” they remained“ against. ” We find that no opinion of the Constitutional Commission has been accepted. We are now voting on the proposal for a conclusion that the House is asking the Commission... to draw up a new opinion based on the new guidelines set by the House, here we have today at this session. Yes, it is. _________(?) From Article 101(3), if no opinion is accepted, I!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1113	I'm obliged to say a few words, no matter how much we're in a hurry, about this point. Although it basically means that we will support Mr. Šehagić's choice, but this opportunity, while I was working on this appointment, then I saw that there were more problems and I think this is a unique opportunity for this home to start and that sort of thing. Therefore, the Law on concessions was published in 2002, although this institution only started to operate in 2005 and it was established in accordance with the law to and act in a double capacity: it acts in one capacity as the Commission for the award of concessions (which are in the exclusive jurisdiction of BiH) and in another, the Commission acts as the Joint Commission for concessions (when it performs functions and powers relating to the award of concessions which are not exclusively in the jurisdiction of BiH, so entities and Brcko District). 1. When acting in the case of one, the Commission shall consist of seven members, of which three members have residence in the Federation, three members have residence in the RS and one of them comes from the Brcko District. Currently, the Commission for concessions has six members, so we have yet to choose today, and this is not so controversial, but two of the six members gained pension conditions, one in December 2006, and the other in February 2007, the third in early 2007. Therefore, half of the existing members should retire, although Article 9 of this law says there is a possibility that the chair of the Commission may authorise a member of the Commission to end the task entrusted to him even after the term of office has expired. I think we need to get to that part of the deadline so it doesn't get abused. And accordingly, I propose to support Mr Mensur Šehagić's election as a member of the concessions commission that is resident in the RS. 2. To order the concessions Commission to initiate a retirement procedure for appointed members of the Commission who have acquired conditions for retirement. 3. To be proposed by the Commission by the Commission to amend the Law on concessions which will regulate the deadline for the completion of a member's task, which has been empowered by the chair of the Commission to continue work and after obtaining conditions for retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1114	Okay, thank you very much. Approximately, I think this proposal to appoint Mensur Šehagić and these two additional conclusions correspond to each other and that we can adopt them. We can vote. Who is "for" the appointment of Šehagić, with these two conclusions by Mrs. Majkić? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? With one vote "abstained", I find that Mensur Šehagić was appointed a member of the Commission, with these two additional conclusions. And we have an extra agenda point, that's ad. Nine. Ad hoc Commission appointment
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1115	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you two minutes off, if the four of us were to stop here because we didn't have... This has caught us a little bit. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-04-0.u1116	All right, well, here's a two-minute break. [[PAUZA]] We're continuing the 10th session. Here, I would ask, perhaps, the presidents of the clubs to propose candidates or, as I understand it, that it will be the presidents of the clubs Hazim Rančić, Branko Zrno and Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Right? Can we choose this ad hoc commission in the names of these people? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? With one vote "abstained", I find that we have chosen this ad hoc commission and have thus exhausted the agenda. Thank you, everyone. The seat's finished at 11.25.
