ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11113	Gentlemen, honourable MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 10th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So once again, I warmly welcome all present, MPs and guests, and I agree that the meetings are attended by 33 MPs. Here's the number changing, we're getting a new one, so we'll figure it out later, and obviously we already have it. I would like to inform you that the absence for official travel and other reasons has been justified by Azra Hadžiahmetović, Remzija Kadrić, Selim Bešlagić and Niko Lozančić. On the benches, just before the session, you received an amended agenda proposal compared to the one that was sent to you with the materials earlier. I'll brief you on the reasons for the change. Therefore, the Finance and Budget Commission informed the College of the fact that it was not in a position to consider, as a competent commission, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance in Banks and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enabling of Obligations under the accounts of the old foreign exchange savings for the simple reason that the Constitutional Commission had not, before the meeting of this Commission, established a constitutional basis for these two laws that were made yesterday, and we will have these laws. Well, you're done, but it's not a competent committee if you've been following me, Mr. Džaferović. So, we will have this at the next session and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on the agenda, as point 4, the request of MP Beriz Belkić was included to discuss the proposal for a law on the Srebrenica-Potočari memorial centre – the memorial feature of the mesar for victims of genocide from '95. years of emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 27. So, let me repeat, on the benches you got the consolidated text of the agenda for today's session. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. If there are no reports, I'm saying... Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11114	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, esteemed media representatives. On the basis of Article 65, Article 1. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I submit the next proposal to supplement the agenda of the 10th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. 2 I propose to include in today's agenda a point with the following name: Discussing information on the state and trends in the BiH labour market from June 2006 to June 2007 with a specific reference to the definition of the strategy in the international plan in the field of labour and employment. The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge of opening remarks on this agenda. An explanation of why I propose this. The issue of resolving unemployment in BiH is one of the most important issues in BiH. In modern and developed countries, governments fall or survive in relation to the results achieved in this area. In BiH, it is almost today and is not talking about the employment of workers because the country's political scene has been dominated by the empty party bickering of ruling parties for a long time. The problem of unemployment requires much more serious treatment than in BiH. The high unemployment rate, the lack of action plans for employment, the inactivity of market institutions, the lack of qualified staff for labour market problems, the unfavourable qualification structure are just some of the reasons why this issue should be opened. I also note that the trend in the growth of the number of unemployed continues despite announcements and promises by ruling parties to improve the situation in this area. For example, according to the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment, the number of unemployed in April 2006 was 5.12.052 unemployed in BiH, and in April 2007, the number of unemployed was 532,834 unemployed workers. So in the last year, instead of having positive trends, we have 20,000 more unemployed in BiH. The continuation of such trends threatens to lose another 4 years, with the goal of increasing employment, formal employment for 150,000 new workers, only an illusion. With that in mind, I believe it is also necessary in the highest legislative body of BiH – the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly to open this existential issue that depends on the standard and quality of life of all citizens in this country. I remind and, behold, I leave room for us to be a little bit more flexible, possibly if the Council of Ministers is unable to give us any notices today regarding this agenda point, we can accept, therefore, the conclusion that this issue, but today we should classify it and consider it, given its importance, as the first item of the agenda of the next session of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11115	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. I would ask you to provide me with the text, the text of the formulation of the agenda point. Here you go. So let's discuss the agenda, discuss the agenda. Are there any reports? Here, Mr. Živković. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11116	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the Parliament, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I have unofficially learned that, as far as agenda item 12 is concerned, Confirming the BiH presidency's decision to set candidates in the BiH Armed Forces general positions, that the abovementioned persons who are proposed for general positions only have a temporary NATO permit that stands out for them in August of this year. I'm interested, and I'd like to hear from someone from the Department of Defense whether this Parlement and otherwise these people will get in trouble if we confirm that decision today, given that we are the last instance to confirm that if these people don't get an extension of that license after August of this year. I have also learned that NATO is preparing the documentation that is necessary for them to get that permanent permit and after this Parliament could decide to confirm their positions. I think it would be good if we could get an answer and we could all decide together whether it is necessary or necessary for the next session to put this item on the agenda, so we can take it off today, and by next session, we can get NATO's confirmation of whether these people have been given permanent permits to perform our duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11117	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11118	Business intervention, Your Honor. Namely, Article 65, Article 2. The Rules of Procedure say - the MP cannot present for more than 3 minutes nor elaborate the essence of the issues proposed as part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11119	I'll take it, I'll take it, I'll take it, I'll take it, I'll take
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11120	Since fellow Bećirović, therefore, acted contrary to Article 65, I ask the chairman that, when holding the session, he takes care of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11121	Thank you, Mr. Novaković, I accept criticism. Go ahead, discuss the agenda. Please, if there's any from the ministry. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11122	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. We all, I suppose, all of us, in the post office about ten days ago, received a letter from the chairman of Dr. Nikola Špirić. The letter that Oli Ren sent us. Why do I say 15 days ago, because Oli Ren sent a letter eight. On May 9th, Mr Špirić sent the chairman and members of the College a letter and it was protocold on May 10th. So, I just want to say this because we had a session on May 23rd, and until then this letter was not delivered to us, so that's why I intervene today. In a letter to us Špirić, rightly, kindly pray: I kindly ask you that the same, this is the letter, carefully consider how we would all draw lessons and take responsibility for key reform projects and thus speed BiH's path to our final goal, which I hope is unquestionable, which is joining the European Union. This is told by one natural prime minister who, in fact, is nothing but, without calling on members, something that stems from Article 167 of our new Rules of Procedure, Rule b) that the chairman may request a session of the home, because the contents of this letter is such that what we just heard is a pure joke about what it says here. So, I expected this letter to initiate a session of the home or member of 167th, to look for the agenda point. For those who don't have it, they didn't take the material for themselves for today's session, in that letter of Oli Ren translated here, the man tells us that the situation that led us to a stalemate in all the reform processes has led to increased risks in terms of stability and security in the country. The man further tells us that BiH is going in the opposite direction from what we all hoped for. The man then tells us that the political leadership, and so are we, must decide whether the country can afford to return to its early 90s. When Oli Ren tells us if the country can return to the early 1990s, it's a diplomatic dictionary, the man tells us something that should concern us. Then he says BiH leaders need to overcome their differences and show real unity and not read any further, so I suggest you take this letter. So, I apologize for this, as far as I'm saying, my proposal, Mr. Belkić, is for this letter to be the point of Parliament's agenda. If not today, next time. Indeed, this Parliament must be manifested, and the public must know about this and we must say anything. At the very least, I wouldn't say this, Mr. Chairman, if I hadn't gotten this in the mail as an MP and I am obliged to bring it out here on behalf of the political party that I belong to. If we don't vote, I'm sorry to vote, uh, it's my suggestion that if the Council of Ministers isn't ready today, and unfortunately it's not, because it would be in fuller capacity, to discuss this, to get out of here as chairman of the Council of Ministers, because this is how he... he took down the ball on us, tomorrow he's going to say, what is, again, Parliament is not working. About what? Now, I would like to ask, if you can reach some conclusion, I suggest that for the next session of Parliament, the chairman, we have a agenda point that comes from this letter, you can call it whatever you want, as far as I'm concerned, I'm very flexible here, and that the President of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, will take the appropriate stance on this, to come up with some proposal, and I don't know what, to establish anything. I wouldn't want to prejudge the matter so I don't politicize everything in the wrong direction before it is, because, honestly, I'm being honest, as far as I've done these jobs, I really think this Oli Ren letter is enough 5 reasons that, as serious people, I'm not going to tell you to panic, but to worry. This is a message as it is, to say the least, for a troubled dream.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11123	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Here's just a few information. Of course, the idea is understandable, the argument is clear. The college discussed this letter. We delivered the letter to all MPs, of course there was thinking, let's see around the session. Mr. Špirić and I didn't specify that. Here, we can consider, uh, your initiative and put it at the next session, by having an opportunity at an extended college, and before this session and last, let's do it. But, therefore, we have taken this letter seriously. Your initiative is welcome. Here is a man from the Ministry of Defence, i.e. Deputy Mr. Igor Crnadak, who will give us further information on this dilemma Mr. Živković presented regarding point 12, so we can procedurally bring appointed people into the situation to be practically able to do so by August and after they have no consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11124	Chairman, honourable MPs, dear guests, media representatives. According to the Defence Department's decision to determine candidates for the general position in the Armed Forces, which, today, is on the agenda of the House of Representatives, should give the necessary explanations and clarifications regarding this and indeed there is a need to give information and, behold, to do what the co-chairman Živković said as unofficial information. According to the instructions of the parties, it is necessary for the general positions proposed by Brigadier General Dragan Vuković, Brigadier General Jugoslav Brdar, Brig-Gen Anto Jeleč, Brigadier General Mirsad Gutić, Brig-Gen Stanojko Novaković and Brigadier General Husein Tursunović to receive NATO's consent to these duties. I am obliged to inform you that this agreement, unfortunately, has not reached today. We had information at the Department of Defense that this should happen, which is why it was a decision to go, to go into this procedure to the end. I will remind you that your part of the work on this and in preparation for this decision the Ministry of Defence did and passed it on to the Presidency. The presidency also adopted an appropriate Decision on the determination of candidates on April 18th and was all done on the basis of NATO's provisional consent. This temporary agreement for all six persons remains in force, ending at the end of August of this year. Due to all these facts, our suggestion and the proposal of the Ministry of Defence is that this point is not to be considered today, i.e. to withdraw from the agenda because the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly is a final instance in deciding on these matters. It could be, we could have at least two things here that we don't think would be good. First, if one decision were made that, without the agreement of the final and the constant that I mentioned, 6 practically would not be valid and, secondly, it would not be good if agreement for one or more persons were questionable and would not, would not, would not arrive, then we would also consider, both the House of Representatives and this whole process to be brought into one, into one unpleasant situation. Therefore, our suggestion is to wait for the final, final position of NATO, to get these final confirmations and consent to place them in general places and then, after that, I sincerely hope, and according to the information we have, it could be by your next session, to put it on the agenda then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11125	Thank you. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11126	I'd like to ask you, Deputy Minister, if you could stay behind the pay phone because I'm going to ask you a question right now. So the defence structure in BiH is in the transition phase, so the Defence Act and the Armed Forces Service Act are in the implementation phase. As far as I know, he's late in the process, and I don't think what's done with these temporary consents is an accident. So, I think it's very connected to the transition process, the defence sector restructuring process in BiH, not the Armed Forces of BiH. Question for you, Mr. Deputy Minister: What is this going to mean, therefore, not to be appointed, is today a final act, they cannot assume duty to this end, what is this going to mean for the transition process, for the implementation of the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces in BiH, and do you, for this position, which you have now stated, I, therefore, respect what you have said, what I hear, is this your position or is this the position of the Ministry and what has the Presidency to say? Look, we can't be reached here until the BiH presidency, uh, executes the appointment. We here confirm the appointment. We're in some extreme, uh, what's-his-name, instances. I need to speak my mind right now. If this will have any effect on the process of transforming the Armed Forces, on the obligations BiH has towards the PfP, on obligations, otherwise BiH on the international agenda in this sector, I am in favour of doing this. We have consent, it is temporary to do so, let the process go, so whoever doesn't get a later consent he needs to go, I mean, he must have, uh, consciousness that he's exposed to that kind of risk. That's it, thank you. This is an important question, as it is called, I ask you to give me an answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11127	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. The question is completely in place and here's what I'm going to say, say two things. I think it is important that MPs know, maybe I should say it right at the beginning, so there would be no such dilemma, that based on the provisional consent and there is a decision, the Presidency's decision to determine the perpetrators' duties to the general positions, and therefore these people are the perpetrators of the positions for which their appointment process is in progress, which could be translated directly into a response to your question that it will not compromise the transformation processes and all of these activities that we now have concerning the implementation of the representative decision on the final deployment of the units to the final locations according to the decision on the size, structure and locations of the Armed Forces of BiH. That's one thing, therefore, the first part of your question. The second part – is this my personal attitude or is it harmonised? I didn't think I should say that because I wouldn't be so insecure that I put my personal attitude here. This is the position that has been agreed upon, agreed in the Ministry of Defence between the minister, the second deputy and myself, so that we are fully behind it, with the third answer being the same I should give you, which is that it is a completely legitimate right and that is ultimately the final decision of this respected home to decide whether to go with this point or not. And that might be the way that you said that when you heard all this, you still made a decision to go into it and that today is being declared on this agenda point and that's one of the options.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11128	Thank you, Mr. Deputy. I think this was correct and enough. I, however, think that we should make a statement, or eventually decide to take this item off the agenda, in particular we have a coherent position from the Ministry of Defence and we have this argument that I think is pretty much. Well, here, I didn't want to, uh, replicate. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11129	Mr. Chairman. So, I, after this answer, therefore, thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. So things are clear to me, as far as I'm concerned, personally, there's no problem and we're taking this off the agenda, but, uh, we've got, therefore, answers to questions. I'd just like to say one other thing. Don't, please, you of the Department of Defense take care of these things in the future, so that things like this, let's say they happen all the way to the final instance, to Parliament. Where was the Presidency, where was the Parliamentary Commission? We had this about 10-15 days ago. I'm a member of that committee. It's the first time I've heard this. And I don't like to be, to experience surprises of this kind, if there's no need for such surprises, and, uh, give when the next thing you know about these things, that in time, therefore, reacts and then we don't drive everything until we get the train to the last station and then we stop there somewhere in front of the station, either there or here. Here, that's what I was going to say after, of course, which gave me answers, and this is a logical answer that they are the perpetrators of the duty, that they will not affect the ongoing process and that they will meet the deadlines for the implementation of the Law on Defence and the Law on the Service of Armed Forces. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11130	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else on the agenda? Here, just a minute, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Okolić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11131	Thank you very much, Chairman. I just wanted to say that today, here on the proposal of the Deputy Minister, we can also withdraw this, but I must also draw attention that this is truly unserious to express one such wish after the initial discussion in Parliament because we have done all the preparations, because it was on the Commission, because it was otherwise presented to the Commission. On this occasion, I would like to make a statement to the Ministry of Defence to prepare this and, possibly, to give up on time, because the Commission has given its consent and did not know about this. This is for me, as a member of the Commission, a surprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11132	Thank you, Mr. Okolić. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11133	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry to report twice on the agenda, but I want to separate these two points completely and I'd like to ask you to focus your attention on what I'm talking about, not who's talking. So, at the 7th session of the House of Representatives on April 12th, we adopted the Budget. At the 6th, 25th of March, we adopted Haman, and then we extended some things to solve and adopted him on April 12th. By adopting the Budget, we've adopted some conclusions. One of the conclusions adopted, which was initiated on the Commission and on the financing chaired by Mr Bahtić, at the time, with the very active participation of the ministers, or Deputy Finance Minister, we identified a problem which, unfortunately, is already being elaborated by this newspaper, which is that large funds are being allocated for commission work in an unorganised way. This is what the people of the Ministry of Finance brought to our attention and at Budžet was the first Commission on Finance, Mr Bahtić proposed this proposal which was subsequently adopted on the Commission, and Parliament accepted it, so that it would not break through its knees, the new people came, let them see how expensive it seems and to prepare us with one piece of information that will give us a scoreboard and the introduction of order in the area. It was then concluded in Parliament that the Council of Ministers' House of Representatives would receive a draft law on the salaries of BiH institutions within 45 days to settle this. This is the first session on which this 45-day deadline expired, and we didn't get the pay law. It also concluded that the House of Representatives would receive from the Council of Ministers and a report on the establishment of all the committees set up by the Council of Ministers in the previous meeting and a report on the reasons for their establishment and costs for their work, in order to introduce order. 9 So we should get this in the period between the May 23rd session and today's session. We didn't get either. Instead, we got a hearing from the executive chief about how they wouldn't sign some orders, that it was about millions of dollars and, practically, everything they needed to deliver to us here how the area was done, now they're in, let me say, the media where it's supposed to be found, but we need to do something about it. That is why my proposal, Mr. Chairman, is also so that, since we do not have here, to update, just to ask that we agree, that what should be prepared for the next session of Parliament should be prepared for this debate to enter into an institutional plane and go towards resolution, not politicising and unnecessary, this, creating a picture of wastefulness which, at least, Parliament should not be an accomplice to it. Now, my proposal, therefore, if it can, in the form of a working conclusion, be updated for the next session of Parliament to prepare this information for us at this conclusion so that we can,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11134	We'll ask the Council of Ministers, Mr. Lagumdžija, as a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11136	So we're discussing today's session agenda. Any other initiatives? No, I'm guessing. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11137	...I would only ask for information, given that we have reached one conclusion at the last session on the proposal of one agreement, we all remember this debate, with the Serbian Orthodox Church, so I would ask that someone from the Council of Ministers give the information, given that we received some information informally, as the matter stands, and since last time Parliament reached a certain conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11138	I don't know, Mr. Kalabić, whether there is a misunderstanding, but the Council of Ministers has been informed on the table that the procedure is related to the agreement with the Catholic Church, as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, and that, with the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Agreement has been forwarded to the Council of Ministers, which he confirmed to me, in the Presidency, which he confirmed to me and the chairman. Unfortunately, they were not in a technical capacity to hold a session yesterday and to this level the job, or conclusion, was realized.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11139	I apologize, if the others have it, I don't have it. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11140	It's divided into benches, believe me. Here I am, if this clarification can please you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I got the letter you're talking about. Since it is specific terminology, it might be good for someone from the Council of Ministers to say what the proposal for a basis for the conclusion of the basic contract means. Does the proposal for a basic contract mean that the contract, which is now going to the Presidency, which the Bureau, of course, is to deliver to Parliament in the procedure, or is it something that is not in line and only now we are at the beginning of the process. That's what I'm asking because last time we just had a problem with whether it's the beginning of the process or whether it's, uh, it's done somewhere and it's standing in the drawer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11142	Do we have anyone from the Council of Ministers who might be able to tell what this is all about? I've received information from the Council of Ministers, Secretary General, that part of the ratification, or part, please listen to me, here for days on end. So, that part of the job when it came to ratification, the Council of Ministers ended up delivering it to the Bureau, which was confirmed by the president of the Bureau and explained to me that he couldn't technically organise a session of the Bureau yesterday and that they would do so at the first next session. I don't know what to say about this anymore. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11143	(distant from microphone)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11144	I don't know, it's really some untrustworthy, really, uh, but there it is. Thank you very much. Okay. It's a little vague paper maybe. Okay, whatever, okay. Here I am at my disposal. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović. We've got a little work to do today, but here we go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11145	I'll do it very briefly. I have a suggestion. By the way, when you structure your agenda, I don't know how you guys end up in college, when, uh, 11
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11146	You have a colleague in an extended college, so ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11147	Okay. It doesn't matter what we have a colleague, but I want to ask you next, Mr. Belkić. If we have certain reports according to certain conclusions, etc., I think it would be good to define ourselves or to put initiatives, certain opinions of the Colleges and the conclusions in line before the law or to go in accordance with the laws. In this regard, I suggest that we be consistent when we structure the agenda, if we say at point 3 we state here a report, conclusions, etc. And then further in the extension, it's said that in relation to that and the team, I suggest that at point 13 here where this initiative is talked about, it's said about the initiative to build that and that. I think you'll understand this suggestion well on purpose,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11148	Of course, of course. I'm even up for the 13th to be before this point, that you, of course, be before this conclusion is made. But this is about the conclusion about the law. So, when it comes to this law on the availability of state property, but here, we'll agree to that. I hope we're done discussing the agenda. Let's be clear about what's been formulated as a proposal. So, first of all, we have a proposal from Mr. Denis Bećirović that at today's session or, possibly, if the Council of Ministers is in no condition, which is obvious to be in no condition, Mr. Bećirović, here, there is no Council of Ministers Chairman and I do not see any ministers who could correctly say whether they are able to give and answer any opening remarks to these questions. So, I'm asking you to put this on the College, or Expanded College, to be as agreed at the next session. In the same way that we can resolve these two initiatives that Mr Lagumdžija gave, related to Mr Oli Ren's letter and regarding the realization of the conclusions adopted by the Finance and Budget Commission in the adoption of the Budget. So it's about the Pay Law and it's about the conclusion that you're asked to see commission work, pay, etc. So on this principle, we could take these three initiatives, if you agree, of course, not to vote on it now, but to come to the next session with these points through the College, the Expansive College. If you don't mind. I'm talking about three, we have Denis Bećirović, and of course, your two, Oli Ren and Budget. So here's what I'm realizing is that we've taken the obligation to ensure, through the procedure of these three initiatives, that they are included in the next session of the House of Representatives. And we have a proposal to point 12. Confirmation of the BiH presidency's decision to determine candidates for general positions in the BiH Armed Forces has been lifted because of the 12 incompleteities of the case, i.e. the lack of existence is still permanent, i.e. whether it is permanent consent to appointments. Please prepare to make a statement about this proposal. So vote now. Who's in favor of taking down item 12? Please, Jozo, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11149	(distant from microphone) I realized that the promoter
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11150	Turn on the microphone, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11151	I realized the bill promoter pulled the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11152	No, I don't. He suggested that Parliament consider this, Mr Živković suggested that it be removed and asked for clarification. Can we, Mr. Križanović? Thank you. Please prepare to vote. So who's in favor of getting this point 12 off the agenda? With 17 votes to, two against, no abstentions, we don't have enough entity majority. Here, I'll be happy to do it again. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. Who's in favor of taking down item 12? With 24 votes to, 3 against, 5 abstentions, with 13 Federations of BiH, RS 11 ok. So the House of Representatives decided to take point 12 off the agenda. Here, let me now establish the agenda for today's 10th session. So under 13 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 9th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Azra Hadžiahmetović on the Law amending the Law on the temporary ban on the availability of state property in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. The request of MP Beriz Belkić to consider the proposal for a Law on the Srebrenica Memorial Centre is a memorial and mesar for victims of genocide from the '95s, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, 5. The request of MP Ekrem Ajanović to consider the proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity under a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure (application of the new Rules of Procedure), 6. Proposal for a law on radiation and nuclear security in Bosnia and Herzegovina - Second reading, 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH, Second Reading, 8. Proposal for a law on higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 9. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education, first reading, 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Council of Ministers Act, Law No 01,02-02-9-35-4/06, of 8.9. 2006.1 / 11. First Reading, 11 / 11. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Administrative Tax Act, first reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure), 12. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 9th session of the House held on 23.05.2007 and point 13. Giving consent to ratification: (a) the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages – Strasbourg, 5th of November 1992, (b) the Convention for the Merging of Certain Regulations in International Air Traffic, (c) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Co-operation and Control of the Crossing of the Border, (d) the Interim Free Trade Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Mission of the Temporary Administration of the United Nations in Kosovo So, here, we will discuss this. So let's go to the realization of the agenda. Let's get to the record. So point A.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 9th session of the House of Representatives You've won the 9th session record. Let me just have a few notes. As you have seen, the minutes are quite extensive due to the transfer of explanations of all parliamentary questions. 14 We did so at the request of Mr. Denis Bećirović. I'd like to remind you of article 86. The Rules of Procedure of this House. Item 1 reads; the minutes contain data relating to the date, place and time of the meeting, issues discussed, names and official duties of participants in the debates, voting results and the adopted decision. The second position of this member is that the MP may request that his complaint concerning a possible violation of the BiH Constitution or the Rules of Procedure be entered in the minutes. It follows from this provision of the Rules of Procedure that such a comprehensive record is not required or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and it is my opinion that there is no need for us to fully communicate the arguments of parliamentary questions because these arguments are relevant to the entities to which the questions are asked and the arguments are always raised with the question of delivery to those institutions to which they relate and ultimately, those arguments are made here publicly. So she gets some character, some public character. So, as it is said in the Rules of Procedure, questions should also be as short and clear as possible. I beg you not to insist. Here, this time we did it, so you don't insist that the full explanations you have with the parliamentary questions be entered into this record. So here's the debate on the record. Any objections to the record? If there isn't, I'll conclude the discussion of the record. Please prepare to vote on the minutes. Who's in favor of accepting the record? Do you vote now? With 32 votes for, without, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have adopted the 9th-session record. Moving to point 2. Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11155	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers and other guests, I am truly pleased with my colleague Bećirović for asking for a review of the parliamentary issues, and when I took a closer look at this, I saw that there are not a few questions I have asked here at Parliament. It seems to me at my first working session that I asked for all 53 BiH institutions to deliver to me a written national structure of employees as well as an educational structure. Of course there's no answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11156	What's this about? Why are you going out? Is it a break, what is it? I beg your patience. Suddenly 4-5 MPs come out. I thought it wasn't some emergency session, something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11157	It's not an emergency session? It's not. An eklatantan example of the irresponsibility of the BiH institutions is that at the 5th session, March 15th, I asked the question of what was on the trail of Mr Lagumdžija's earlier discussion about these commissions in the Council of Minsitarians, other privileges, and I got the shaded, therefore, the question of what would mean that I got the answer, which is not true. And then I said I was asking for an answer to all the privileges that all BiH Council of Ministers employees and all other institutions have undisputed. Namely, it starts with counselors, assistants, etc. In my knowledge, everyone uses official vehicles, has paid cell phones, as well as a series of other completely unwarranted privileges. I ask this question to provide me with information that everyone in the BiH Council of Ministers and in all, therefore, other BiH institutions, regardless of duty and position, is using and, clearly, unwarranted privileges. I malopre said that question was shaded like I got an answer. That's not true. Like I didn't get answers to any other questions. So it is quite obvious that BiH institutions are being placed above this Parliament, that they do not respect our conclusions, that they are not entirely interested that we here want to help them because there are countless different agencies that are only accumulated by the demands of certain representatives and the international community and domestic structures, and that is exactly how I asked that we first see who works there, so that we ask them for responsibility because this BiH Parliament cannot be responsible for the overall situation in BiH, nor can it be the subject of the media in order for us to suffer certain accusations. So I ask that we respect what we've done so far, because then there's really no point in getting up here, asking some questions about what would apply to ourselves. Thank you very much. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11158	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11159	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I'm not entirely satisfied with the answer for the following reasons. All that was mentioned in answer to my two questions, we could read in the media a few months ago. There is no specificity in the answer because my question was completely clear, concrete and unequivocal. According to the Law on Public Enterprises and Public Institutions, it is known that public institutions cannot lend loans, let alone enroll and grant grants, and therefore, a colleague of Lagumdžija, return the money, since you have more housing units, that for that money we buy an apartment for a fighter, a Shechid family, and one part pay for a lawyer, Mr. Kreso, that's the man you... When it comes to the Casin brewery, I'm still saying it's a huge asset that's also illegally privatized and I'm surprised to hear from the D.A.'s office. Well, theirs is to conduct an investigation based on media writing, to protect state property, and for that they have high wages. New questions now or a little later?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11160	After that, let's just finish the comments. Mr. Hadži Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11161	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am partially satisfied with the answer to my parliamentary question, simply which is, in general, the answer has come because three months should have answered this question. If three months to answer a question that is clear and the problems that date, here, and a year and today these problems are in the field, then no wonder where this country is going and where we're going to get there. I asked in one question whether it was contrary to the BiH Constitution, an agreement signed between the justice ministry and Canton Tuzla and the Belgrade Special Prosecutor's Office that I should find here through this response and that it was not signed and that it was. In the first part, no agreement has been signed to say in the second part: day 26. In 01.2007, an agreement was concluded, as it is, it is an agreement and it works and works. So the question was in place and the agreement worked and this was the only answer to whether this was contrary to the BiH Constitution. Through this whole part and this answer that could have been in two, three sentences 17 I come to the conclusion that contrary to the Constitution, on this matter, this agreement that was signed. Furthermore, the second part of the question when it comes to persons suspected of committing a war crime on a particular territory, can a procedure be conducted on another territory? And here he's trying to say that he is and that he isn't, that in the end he'd also realize that he is, that he can't. But I am pleased that in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH at the final stage of the processing, so here I appeal to the Council of Ministers to cut off this agony and that this bill be within the shortest time in this House that we do not really put ordinary people in a position to solve these problems, and that institutions should solve both states and entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11162	Thank you, Mr. Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11163	Mr. Chairman, I've asked two questions. The first question concerned - abuses, unintended use, possibly unintended use of donations, which BiH received in the '96 period. until 2005. And in the answer I got about my question, there's actually not a single answer to the question I asked. I got a few pages of material that roughly chronologically only line up when commissions were formed, which were problems inside the commissions. But there is no real question, that is, no answer to questions asked. And now, since this explanation of my question would take too long, I'm going to, uh, use the right to repeat this parliamentary question so I'm going to ask it a lot more precisely and hopefully finally get an answer. Because here, in fact, neither mentions at any point how much BiH has received a donation in this period and how and how it has been spent, or what the commission has determined, whether it has been spent on purpose or not. And whether, if there were any abuses, and after the media was written, there were abuses, whether or not the prosecution reacted, it was not, obviously not. The answer to the second parliamentary question was not from the one addressed to whom it was addressed, it was addressed to the College of the House of Representatives, but I received a letter from BHT1 Director General Mehmed Agović. I didn't ask Mr. Agović anything. I asked the College of the House of Representatives, and I made it very clear that the sessions of the BiH House of Representatives are being broadcast on television, this one, to conduct a direct transmission. Because I think there are only two parliaments in Europe and Southeast Europe, it is the BiH Parliament and the Federation Parliament that are not being transferred. All other countries and all other parliaments are being transferred and the explanation given by Mr Agović, I think it is at least incorrect and I think it is possible to adapt the scheme, and the interest of the citizens, given the state in BiH as it is, this, exists for the work of this House of Representatives. 18 Therefore, that I may not overexplain myself, that I may not take too much time, for the argument will not, I mean, do nothing important, I will do one and the other question, er, repeat again at the next session, and I will ask that this debate be opened on this, this paragraph. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11164	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. Only an additional clarification, or information, is just being transmitted to this session, so this progress, some kind of an effort, is being made. So let's move on. Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11165	Since, Mr. Chairman, how did you say that this part of the session is being transmitted, I just, for those who are following this transmission, say that in the context of parliamentary issues, I have no possibility of replication, corrections of false allegations, so that we cannot react to these slanders and the untrues of Mr. Bahtić, which he has just said. Now let me go to this part.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11166	But here you are, you see, you have a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11167	Which refers to the answers to the parliamentary questions. I asked the question, and several times I updated it here at the House of Representatives session as well as in the Commission for Human Rights, and the question was – What will you do specifically in the next period with the aim of helping the innocent old woman Fata Orlović, who is usurped by private property and who remains exposed to various humiliations in front of the eyes of the entire domestic and foreign public. In this regard, I have also received an answer from the Ministry of Human Rights, and I must say that I am completely disappointed with this response from the Ministry of Human Rights as well as with the Council of Ministers' reply. On this issue, here is a concrete example of the threat to the right to enjoy its private property, showing how many structures the authorities in BiH are either powerless or unable to protect the basic human rights of those ordinary people on the ground. Fata Orlović is just an example, one of numerous examples of the deterioration of BiH citizens, and these, unfortunately, are thousands across BiH. And I'm sorry that in at least one example, the Ministry of Human Rights and the Council of Ministers couldn't have been more concrete and efficient. And the second comment is to answer, where there is no, in fact, answer, I have to repeat it again for the simple reason why it is a BiH citizen who is illegally arrested in another country and who is now in prison in Belgrade. It is about Ilija Jurišić from Tuzla and I asked six, seven very precise questions to the Council of Ministers, and I did not get an answer, although 19 people are in extremely difficult health. I am surprised that at least the minister of security or the minister of human rights did not react to receive the answer as soon as possible for the simple reason that the man is health threat, and the citizen of this country is BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11168	Mr. Raguž. No, there's no replica, no brief comments. The new questions are later, we are now commenting on the answers, please, don't use these answers for other things. Say, you are satisfied, you are not satisfied, what is it that is missing, please? So, Mr. Raguž, it's not for comment, it's for question. Mr Ahmetović was reporting the same thing. For a question. Marković, is the question, just a little bit, so we haven't finished our comments yet, people have applied to the comments, just to check it out. Did anyone stay that he didn't get the word, comment? So, we're closing the comments, we're going to the MPs' questions. Television conveys, of course, the whole Parliament, so it is the whole Parliament. The whole Parliament is safe. [[Common discussion]] Let's take it in a row. Mr. Raguž, come in. The whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11170	Let this one come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11171	Take it easy, let's take it in a row.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11172	I thank you, Mr. President. This is the tenth session, I wasn't asking questions, and I didn't know this question was televised, but I really think it's a good idea for him to pass on. I refer my question to the BiH Security Minister at the Council of Ministers, Mr Sadović, and it is related to the death of Ivo Bertulović, the Hrvat returnee to the Banja Luka town of Barlovci, who was brutally beaten on his family estate in 2505 and died several days later in a Banja Luka hospital. So, I'm looking for the first next session of information until the investigation into this, were the perpetrators discovered, what were the motives? 20 And if I do not prejudge here and do not give any political evaluations, I believe that this is an opportunity to get one complete information on the state of security with special reference to the state of security of returnees in both entities and in the entire area of BiH. If we have not already had the strength to approve funds in the Budget, we have recently had the opportunity to turn our declarative efforts into a concrete act towards the return process, then as a legislative and executive authority we have the responsibility to do everything possible to protect every man in BiH and every returnee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11173	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr Ahmetović. Here you go, Mr. Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11174	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'll have a quick question, so for OSA and SIPA, please answer me yes or no. Are there persons in BiH who pose a threat to the country's national security? I know that the names and names of such persons, not because of secrecy, are not delivered to Parliament, but I ask that such names be delivered to the Parliamentary Commission. And to me personally, to answer if there is or isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11175	Thank you. Marković. There's an answer right now, right? I don't understand you, do you want to come out and answer? Here you go, Mr. Sadović, just sign in, that's very desirable. Please, Mr Ahmetović asked a question, came out, Mr Sadović, unfortunately, I must conclude that without it there is no point. So please evaluate, wait when she gets back.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11176	If I could just ask Mr. Bećirović a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11177	Here's Mr. Bećirović. He hasn't asked any new questions yet. I just have some comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11178	This one was, there was a comment, so I'd like to inform him.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11179	Don't comment, nothing. No comment, replica, we're going with new questions. I apologize, Mr. Sadović 21
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11180	So the answer is
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11181	You're very correct, but there's no man who asked the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11182	Well, I guess he's interested in others, too, the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11183	Well, he's interested, but mostly he's the one who set him up. [[Common discussion]] Mr. Zorić, I don't mind talking a little bit, we'll talk, it looks like two days, uh, we need something to do, we have some material here, laws. Please, Mr. Sadović, I see you insist, uh, but please, gentlemen of the Parliament, when you ask a question if you feel there is a possibility of an answer, wait. Here you go, Mr. Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11185	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, or MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly. Ambassador Ahmetović asked the Intelligence and State Agency for Investigation and Protection – Do they have any knowledge that there are persons or persons in BiH who, according to official information, are a threat to national security? I'm telling you, there are, yes. What I have information, there are such people, at this point I can say so much, uh, I am sorry about this case, Mrs. Fata Orlović, we had several discussions, uh, about this case at the Council of Ministers and those announcements that came from Prime Minister Dodik and the bishop, if you followed, uh, the press didn't quite come by accident, and they didn't exactly result in a good will to solve the case, but, among other things, is the result of some of the efforts led by both the chairman and my little one and the other ministers in the Council of Ministers. I'd like to introduce you, uh, to that and really not to use that kind of argument you just used that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11186	Okay, thank you. Thank you, please move on, Marković, Zorić. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11187	I have a question or a parliamentary initiative, however you like.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11188	Suit yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11189	Well, here, you'll grade the best.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11190	If you give us a mandate, we'll evaluate.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11191	I was, in fact, not surprised when the session was scheduled, this day at sveti. Ante, therefore, to a feast that means a lot to the Catholics Hrvat BiH. And here I am starting the initiative that this is no longer happening, and I now propose to the College not to schedule a session between 25.12. and 08. of January 2008, because it is a practice, because it is a practice.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11192	On time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11193	Here, in time, that's what I suggested last year, but it was again.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11194	I have to tell you that it's a little bit of Mr. Švarc Šiling, because of the terms, etc., but good.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11195	Well, I've seen the week's schedule, this week could have been both yesterday and tomorrow and the day after, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11196	Very difficult to meet different needs, different
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11197	All right, I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11198	Travels, obligations outside Parliament and so, very difficult. Absolutely, absolutely, let's move on, Mr. Džaferović. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11199	Mr. Chairman, co-workers and colleagues, I have an obligation from the earlier assembly, from the formerly calling on Parliament to, since I have not received an answer, update one issue concerning the disreputed workers of the Ugor Association of Jelah at Tešnje. In 2005, the BiH Parliament, the Pedestrian House adopted conclusions that are required by the Council of Ministers to take certain activities to get these workers to their rights that they gained from work 90 years ago in the Republic of Croatia. I now repeat, therefore, my question and ask the Council of Ministers to finally deliver an answer to Parliament. What have they done, according to the 2005 Parliament's conclusions, on this matter? And since the issue of working relations, social security, property relations is very often raised as a question that our citizens have as a problem in achieving in countries that have fallen apart from the former Yugoslavia. I'd like to ask one more question on this occasion, therefore. We are with all the countries that have arisen, the countries that have fallen apart from the former Yugoslavia, BiH has concluded numerous bilateral agreements, but as a rule there are two contracts that have not been concluded, and that is the Treaty on Property and Legal Relations and the Social Insurance Treaty. I ask or ask the Council of Ministers to submit a report to Parliament on the phase in which the talks or the phase are in place, negotiations on the conclusion of the IPR and the Social Security Treaty between BiH and other states that have arisen from the collapse of the former Yugoslavia. Very often, therefore, this issue from state to state, from right to right, is being updated in BiH, I think it is time, it was, in fact, a long time ago, but here it is never too late for us to open this kind of story in Parliament and see what BiH needs to do to finally end the issue of property-legal relations and our country and our citizens and social security with the countries that have fallen apart from the former Yugoslavia. This is especially when I, for example, know of the fact that not all of these countries, the Treaty on Property Relations with Croatia, property-legal relations was prepared for conclusion but it was then up to us in BiH here to see what it is about us to conclude that contract and whether the reasons for the suspension of that contract that came from BiH, from the Republika Srpska entity, are still standing. So I'm looking for an answer to this question and I'm looking for a parliamentary debate after it arrives as a special item of the agenda. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11200	Thank you. Please, a little more concise, more precise, shorter. Rifat Dolić. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11201	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I have two questions today. First of all, I did not know the exact address to which to address it, but I say, here, to the competent resolution ministry or the BiH institution. What can you do to protect BiH's archaeological treasure, which is exposed to carelessness, destruction and exporting beyond the borders of BiH? The particular case that offered me to ask this question is the case in the Great Claudius. Namely, after the war, a so-called Archeologists' Association was formed in the Great Claudium, with no professional archaeologist in it. The thing wouldn't be strange if some people, under the auspices of this illegally registered association, had not begun to do uncontrollable excavations at archaeological sites in the Great Claudius that had been protected before the war by the then state. I also have information that members of this association recently offered to sell to the Archaeological Museum in Zagreb unearthed items from the days of the Colapians living 400 years before Krist. When the Museum in Zagreb insisted on evidence of the origin of the case, there was nothing from the sale, but very valuable items were then sold in Slovenia for slightly less than 20,000 euros. I ask you to answer my question, and carry out the verification and take official action against the information I have provided. The second short question is the minister of transport and communication at the BiH Council of Ministers. What is the current status of the port of Ploče in bilateral relations with the Republic of Croatia and what agreement and when is that status regulated? Was there, in any way, in any option in bilateral talks with the Republic of Croatia of Rijeka whose pre-war use was, for a reason, geostrategically supported by the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Please, I don't think it is necessary to explain this issue beyond the conclusion that for Bosnia's Krajina today the port of Rijeka is of strategic interest and that its importance and role to nothing, with all due respect, can't replace the port of Ploče. And one more question. When, then,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11202	Come on, one question, at least, I mean, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11203	Mr. Chairman, I think I fit in with that business provision and
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11204	Well, you fit in for two, three questions, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11205	Well, it doesn't matter, maybe, five questions, but it's important that we fit in with the business provision.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11206	It's okay. Go ahead, there are procedures, we can't devote the entire session to parliamentary matters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11207	Did I violate a member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11208	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11209	And the third question is – when will I finally get answers to my 8 asked questions from previous sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11210	Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11211	Thank you very much. I'll just have to comment, Mr. Bećirović put out, the one, the fake
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11212	Don't comment, questions are now being asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11213	And you allowed, Mr. Chairman, him to comment on my answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11214	Oh, please, I'll take a break and make as much of it as you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11215	He says he won't fight, if these are the facts of 12 brewers, someone wiped out a tire.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11216	Ask a question, ask a question, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11217	The tire erased 12 shareholders, entered a private name and last name, so overnight he stole half a million marks and that's
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11218	Let the court deal with it, Mr. Bahtić, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11219	So I set up a court, and the court runs away from it... again with evidence.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11220	Go ahead, ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11221	New questions for the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić. When will the BiH Council of Ministers start implementing economic reforms, those reforms that you presented in part of the economic programme's exposé here, which we adopted with 31 votes? As an MP for this parliament, I was in Brussels for an economic dialogue between the EU and BiH and in Vienna at a seminar of macroeconomic policy for Eastern European parliamentarians under the auspices of the IMF. Based on their statements and indicators of the economic situation in BiH and what needs to be done in the coming period, it is clear that now is the right time to implement economic reforms. All relevant international factors, the IMF, the World Bank, stressed that BiH has a realistic chance of achieving long-term macroeconomic stability due to the results achieved in a short period of time and favourable developments in the world economy. In the last 3 years, the GDP has had a growth trend in space of 3%, and the highest increase compared to the countries in the environment, it has been achieved thanks to the current.... environment in the world because the world's economy is in expansion. She was never stronger. Interest rates in history (?) are the most favourable and now is the right time to go into economic reform and take advantage of this positive trend in the world. I believe that the political problems and reforms of the Constitution should not be an obstacle to the implementation of these economic reforms that are necessary and that will bring economic prosperity to the economy, protection, better life for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that political issues should be resolved in walking. Believe me, there's a lot of pressure from the public and the citizens. We're making this all up to date. We chose the Council of Ministers. Here you go, gentlemen, working. We're not gonna change teams, but we might be changing players. I was first in favour, believe and believe and now, however, if there is no implementation of economic reform there is no point in us sitting here. 27 The second question is for the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the State Agency for Labour and Employment – I ask the State Agency for Work and Employment to answer the following questions; List of all travel abroad for months; 01.01. to 31.12. 2006 and 01.01. to 01.06.2007. The answer should contain; the name and last name of persons travelling for each month, the total number of delegations for each trip, all countries visited during those periods, all travel to the Republic of Slovenia in the period 01.01 to 01.06.2007, and what is the most important which are the effects and effects of these trips and is any agreement signed? And I'm asking for phone bills for the period 01.01 to 31.12. 2006 and this period. Gentlemen, we have in institutions where individual directors, executives, spend more abroad than here at home. The effect is zero. There's a lot of money being laundered. I have analyzed these reports, and we as the Finance and Budget Committee, believe me, all of them, based on findings, reports, will call on the Commission, ask them certain questions and we will go into detail, we will ask questions here and all those who are uncontrollably spending budgets, believe that they will be called before both this Parliament and the public and... and the tužilaštvo's office. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11222	Thank you. Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11223	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will make an effort to be very brief and to draw attention to another danger that threatens us all, and that is a danger from so-called. Zoonosis, it's actually a disease that carries animals. So I'm asking the Council of Ministers, and in particular the Veterinary Office of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and the State Veterinary Inspector. First, to provide me with a database of the BiH Animal Marking Agency as well as to make it available to the ministries of water, agriculture and forestry of the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska and the competent cantonal ministries. The database is not available to entities, which prevents effective solving of the problem of endemic zoonosis in BiH, especially brucellosis and fever, if data are taken that only two cases of brucellosis have been recorded before the war, and that today we have brucellosis and, certainly, endemic areas that are distributed differently within BiH, from Novi Travnik, Mostar, Srebrenica, Bijeljina and more. The reasons are multiple. I believe that the livestock that is the source of the disease is being smuggled into the country and does not control the borders, and the legal obligation of 10% monitoring is low and I believe that in 28 of them it is necessary to amend regulations to ensure better control of imported livestock. At the same time, I am launching an initiative to adopt a state-run strategy for the resolution of zoonoses and the adoption of a state-run public health law and a state-run centre for the control and monitoring of the BiH zone. In this strategy and in these legal solutions include experts, type of veterinary chamber, medical chambers, ministries and associations. At the same time, I ask the question when the issue of animal and passport earmarks will be resolved, and I would also like to be provided with a report on the problems arising from the larger epidemiological parameters of these zoonoses with problems related to the termination of the duties of the former Director of the Animal Marking Agency, Slaven Grbić, and the consequences that have caused the situation with the resignation. Then I would ask myself to answer the question of how to check the donated animals to returnees in RS and Federacje BiH, as we have witnessed that a euthanasia of 68 sheep and lambs has been carried out these days in Bajramovici near Srebrenica that have been donated. And at the same time, I ask the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers what they did about the conclusions that were passed on with the symposiums on brucellology last year, which was held in Sarajevo in particular by entity ministries and the State Veterinary Office. At the same time, I ask for urgent control at the borders related to the import of livestock, then to move rapidly towards the education of farmers and the population about disease and at the same time, means to strengthen the border service to prevent, imperative, meat smuggling and animals. I would also like to receive a report on the monitoring of mandatory vaccination against brucellosis in BiH as well as a report on the equipment of the Institute of Pathology of the Veterinary Faculty and Laboratory for the Immunocyto-Cyto Hymium of the Veterinary Faculty. Despite the fact that the thermal processing of meat and milk, which are the source of infection, may be a zoonotic prophylaxis, believes that at the moment the faava of endemic hotspots is also the need to urgently provide sanitary slaughterhouses for euthanasia of animals and sanitary care of such tired cattle. And my second question would be asked to the Ministry of Civil Affairs - that is, did they respect the recommendation of the Agency for State Service No: 0334848-16/06 of 09.05.2007, on the position of the Assistant Minister in the Health Sector, where it is said that the Director of the Agency, Jakob Finci, signed that it is necessary for the Agency for State Service in accordance with Article 28, Article 2 of the Law on State Service in BiH institutions to appoint the most successful candidate from the list to the said job. I ask the Minister of Civil Affairs to answer my question, has he acted in accordance with this recommendation from the State Service Agency and if not why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11224	Sir, Zlatko Lagumdžija. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11225	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is, I don't normally ask these parliamentary questions, and this is the first time, practically, to report to this meeting, so thank you for giving me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11226	I always give you my word whether it's a question, a comment, an initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11227	Okay. You know very well that for a long time in certain media, and from my colleagues here, it has led the appropriate haranga against me which, among other things, has resulted in some issues of MPs who have been here. I also want to ask a parliamentary question. I can't comment on pleasure, dissatisfaction with something, uh, questions and especially answers, but today we've heard that some people are irresponsible to the parliamentary questions that concern me. Namely, you've all been in preparation for today's session to get an answer to a parliamentary question that will be pointed out that the asker of this question is my best friend, is it, because he asked whether, uh, I'm running an investigation against me, when an investigation is going to be conducted and so on, and you've all got the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11228	Mr. Lagumdžija, now is the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11229	Well, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11230	So ask a question
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11231	Well, yeah, I'm asking the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11232	I don't think so. You're reading something.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11233	If you'd heard me correctly, I'm asking a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11234	Read Answers 30
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11235	No, I'm giving you an explanation for the question I'm asking. Namely, my fellow MPs have come to know publicly that no criminal charges have been filed against me. That I was being investigated on the basis of a private criminal report by a citizen of this country and that the prosecution of the state, so cantonally took over the case and eventually found, after an investigation was carried out that there were no crimes and that it was suspending any investigation against Zlatko Lagumdžija. That's what you got.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11236	Read
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11237	Yeah, great. However, here in this response it is also said whether it does not exclude the obligation of a competent cantonal, tax authority to determine whether or not I have any tax obligations. So given that it is necessary, however, to clarify here, to the end, I would like to get an answer to the next question that I refer to the Ministry of Finance and the tax authorities, so that we get a complete picture of, uh, the Zlatko Lagumdžija case and get it over with. Since in response to the parliamentary question, my question is, therefore, and it is addressed to the Ministry of Finance and to the tax authorities, since the answer to the parliamentary question of 28.02, has been answered, a quote, that Professor Zlatko Lagumdžija did not commit crimes and that, after the investigations, a criminal procedure has been suspended, i.e. it will not be conducted, I ask that the precise answer be answered, and that all of them know it. How much, therefore, on the basis of the personal income tax, the citizens paid and whether there are, possibly, how many tax obligations that have not been settled. So we complete this whole picture. Just to complement you, the reason is that in 2001, however, since I have been helped to co-finance my living issue, when, since this pay phone has repeatedly been mentioned, I did not have any apartment or property rights, no housing rights, no apartment in Sarajevo, no BiH in 2001 in which I was a regular professor of the university, of the university where I worked, with 45 years of life and 25 years of employment. And then the university, as well as others, co-financed the resolution of my housing issue and all of these untruths that are listed here, I want, however, that at least you, as my colleagues, know what this is about, so I ask the Ministry of Finance to answer me this question, and that answer will be given to you all, will be available to the public, to close this case, even if this is the case. And I thank those who have asked these questions regardless of their goals and intentions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11238	Mr. Huskić Adem. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, before I ask the question, I must say that I am truly disappointed in this item of the agenda and I suggest you consider what it is to come to.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11240	I'm even thrilled.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11241	I'm going to ask you a quick question. How were the funds spent selling U.S. Embassy land to Sarajevo being spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11242	Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11243	In view of the fact that already several sessions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the BiH Party's MP, Mr Bahtić, is taking the opportunity to discredit the leaders of the SDP,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11244	Come on, ask the questions, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11245	This is an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11246	It's not an explanation. Ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11247	Mr. Belkić, this is an explanation of the question and you should have interrupted Mr. Bahtić when he spoke
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11248	Oh, I'm gonna interrupt you and I'm gonna ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11249	Since he's already several sessions in a rough way trying to discredit,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11250	Here, ask a question. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11251	And given that he continues to do so, we have reason to believe that he is doing so on the orders of the entire BiH Party and for that reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11252	So ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11253	I'm asking the next question. Given the numerous media reports both in writing and in electronic media on the criminal activities of Haris Sijaldžić and the head of the Party for BiH, on the robbery of Tuzla Bank, on the illegal use of quarrys in BiH, malversions around women's ironworks, etc., not to mention, I ask the authorities to examine the truthfulness of these media allegations. Furthermore, I am asking the question now to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers of BiH, did the Human Rights Ministry make up a list of BiH citizens who were kidnapped, usurped property by religious communities? If so, I request that I be provided with a list of these citizens with the following data – name and name, municipalities, exact address and information that the religious community is responsible for violating the elemental human right to enjoy private property. A brief explanation why I'm asking this question. When we spoke at the Human Rights Commission's meeting about the human rights violation case Fata Orlović, several members of the commission told me then, so it's not the only case. Here I am now publicly asking the question, asking for an answer and announcing that with the same barbecue, I will fully defend with the same commitment every citizen's human rights, whether he is Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, Rom, Jevrej or any citizen in this country. The next question -- did the Human Rights Ministry make up a list of BiH citizens who still, 12 years after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, cannot exercise their right to return and enjoy private property. If so, I request that I be provided with a list of these citizens with the following information – name and last name, municipality, exact address and data which is the authority, institution or person responsible for violating the elemental human right to enjoy private property. And the last question, given that the public has already been presented receiving MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly, which I think is quite fine, in line with the Law on Freedom of Access to Information, and given the signs in the media that certain civil servants have decided, even, to file criminal reports against the media which have published the receipts of certain civil servants, I am publicly asking the following question – how exactly are the monthly receipts of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Deputy Ministers in the Council of Ministers and all directors of public institutions, directors, agencies, offices, administrations of institutions financed from the 33 Budgets of BiH. I ask this question to the Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11254	Mr. Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11255	Mr. Chairman, I have two questions. One question quite extensively, and I'd spend a lot of time if I read the whole question here today, and hopefully it won't be a problem if I don't get an answer to this question. It's related to foreign savings. And I'll just go through it for a while. The issue is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić and Finance Minister Dragan Vrankić. Did BiH fulfil obligations under the European Court of Human Rights ruling on the Jeličić case against BiH, etc., now that I do not explain. Secondly, whether a criminal case has been brought against those responsible in BiH for failing to comply with the former Human Rights House's decisions under the pretenses of the owners of the old foreign currency savings. Third, what is the position of the Council of Ministers on the execution of the ruling on payments of old foreign savings, etc. And finally, just for a little while, what about the foreign savings lawsuits that the courts do not prosecute and are asked to provide this Parliament with information from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council on the number and status of these lawsuits brought before BiH courts and criminal charges with the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Why aren't the courts considering this lawsuit? Why is the BiH Prosecutor's Office silent? Will the only consequences of the non-processing lawsuit go to the burden of BiH, which has been declared legally responsible? Whether BiH will also disobey the findings of the European Court of Criminal Law, it treats criminal responsibility in the event of non-compliance with the decisions of the House for Human Rights and Decisions, i.e. the ruling of constitutional courts. And another short question, according to the writing, or media, the tender for the construction of the Peljesac bridge, at a public debate on the intention of building a bridge, the mainland-Peljesac, which was held in Neum, was not given consent nor could it be given, to issue such agreement for, by BiH for... of this bridge, the question was addressed to the Minister of Transport and Communication, Dr Božo Ljubić. Did Mr. Božo Ljubić sign consent on behalf of BiH to build the Land-Peljesac Bridge?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11256	Šemsudin Mehmedović. And we have another reported Mr. Dokić and Selim Bešlagić handed over the parliamentary question and I conclude. Mr. Jovan Hadži Mitrović, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11257	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have one short question and it is addressed to the Directorate for indirect taxation and reads: 34 On the basis of which the law charges an administrative fee of 50 KM in respect of the interpretation of the rules in the section of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, except that a written submission must be submitted, including an administrative fee of 50 KM, calling for heading 83 of the administrative fee. If this is based on some law, I submit to the Council of Ministers that the same is changed because it is sufficient that legal entities pay taxes, and that the administration is obliged to give the right to interpret from its work, without special compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11258	Thank you. Mr. Dokić Branko. Mrs. Merdžana, please come outside and talk to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11259	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, I have one initiative, and it reads about this: To discuss with my deputies how to introduce a new practice on these parliamentary issues that would limit this part of the session to a maximum of one hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11260	The Rules of Procedure say: for at least one hour at a time of 3 minutes, all of them abuse you for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11261	Everyone abuses
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11262	It's impossible for me, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11263	And my suggestion is to do it for a maximum of one hour, and based on the number of questions reported for MPs at each session, determine how much time anyone has.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11264	I have a better idea. Create a special session, even on Saturdays 2 hours and parliamentary issues. Here you go. So, Mr. Dokić, Mr. Jovan Hadži Mitrović. Mr. Hadži Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11265	Mr. Chairman, I've signed up for 35 indeed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11266	Please, a little attention, please and listen to the long one, listen to the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11267	This question that I'm going to ask, I think it's repeatedly asked by the MPs, but here I want to ask that question for the very reason that it refers specifically to Zvornik, where I come from. I ask the Council of Ministers to answer me – what has been done so far on the compensation for the immersed land in the hydropower plant Mali Zvornik and the coast maintenance fee. The explanation of one short – namely, until '92 the Hydropower Plant Mali Zvornik had settled its obligations to the Municipality of Zvornik, and since then it has not. The reminders work, according to the Republic Board for Geodetic and Property Legal Affairs, the expropriation belt on the territory of Zvornik Municipality is 1,270,000 square meters. Also, as for the accumulation and volume of about 55% belongs to the Municipality of Zvornik. The issue is addressed to the Council of Ministers because the accumulation is located at the border with the Republic of Serbia, it is logical that it is an interstate issue. And I must point out that the municipality has tried several times to resolve this issue. She wasn't able. I think there's been an attempt at the RS Assembly, so far it's not settled. It is about significant resources that could very much mean development and could be directed in this direction and could be beneficial to the citizens of Zvornik Municipality. So I ask that this question, indeed, be taken into account by the Ministerial Council and answer, if there is any possibility of doing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11268	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. And I no longer report Mr. Bešlagić's questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11269	Here, I, Mr. Chairman, will fit in, so, in these three minutes. So, given that there are a lot of stories these days about rationalization in the DKP(?) The network, and in particular the dilemma over the criteria related to it, the BiH Foreign Ministry is asking a question. On what criteria does the Foreign Ministry shut down the consulate in one place and move it to another city? It's a consular network in Germany, and is there full consent in the ministry? What BiH countries have embassies, and the countries have no embassies in BiH, and what are the criteria managed by BiH authorities in the opening of embassies in those countries? The second question, the BiH Council of Ministers, by Decision No 35/07 of 22.03.2007, changed the holder of property on certain properties despite the fact that the 36 Law prohibiting the availability of state property was in force. In dealing with the team, I have found that the reason for this decision is to avoid paying the rent to the Federation of BiH for these properties. My question is – that is, I ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with a list of property whose head of SFR BiH or is the subject of a succession, and to which BiH institutions are paying a lease from the Budget of the BiH Institutions? Namely, there is a part of the property that the Federation has usurped, which is not its property. Second, to provide the amount of funds to be paid for the lease of these properties and that means to form a common or unique account and after its formation in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11270	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. So, with the conclusion that Selim Bešlagić has also asked three questions, here I am not reading them now, we will forward this item to the Council of Ministers and to the Directorate for Direct Taxation, I conclude this item of the agenda. So we're going to work, point 3. ________(?) We could take a break. Great. We can even have lunch and maybe about five. I mean, we did. If the club's looking for someone, I'm obliged to take a break. Here, we're tired. Here's the SDA club after this hard work, asking for a half-hour break. Here you go. I'll take a break for half an hour. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11274	(no microphone turned on)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11275	No, it didn't. We have to vote again. Mrs. Branka, explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11276	This is now the second round of voting [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11277	No, first round, new Rules of Procedure. New Rules of Procedure. You want me to 38
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11278	No, no, the vote is okay, Sadik, it's not a voting problem, but Mr. Džaferović thinks we didn't respect the Rules of Procedure. Branka, come on, that's how we broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11279	So perhaps it would have been better if we hadn't changed it, but I do, however, want to warn the MPs that, in this case, if the College succeeds in reaching agreement, this is being notified to the House after which it is voted in accordance with Article 79. Rules of Procedure. So it's the first round of voting again. And he's going back to consent, unfortunately. I'm sorry, that's the rules of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11280	I hope there's no dilemma when it comes to words, unfortunately so. Here, therefore, I find that we have not reached these conclusions subjective support and that, the College, we will reconciling. Unfortunately, we can't right now, simply because there's no Mr. Lozančić. So we go to point 4. Ad.4. The request of MP Beriz Belkić to consider the proposal for a Law on the Srebrenica Memorial Centre is a memorial and mesar for victims of genocide from the '95s, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, The proposal for this bill you got, I hope in time, and you had a chance to get to know him and you'd be able to, uh, decide. I would ask, here's only three minutes, or three or four sentences to say about this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11282	Mr. Beriz Belkić
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11283	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, dear colleagues, I have been in this for a long time, to say so, parliamentary life, and I have been very often and to suggest and explain, etc., but believe me, this present-day role of the promoter, that is, the one that needs to make an argument as to why this law and why it is an urgent procedure, is really difficult for me because I can't find the words that I should say here. I have, in my explanation, avoided the usual procedure, i.e. the usual way of explaining the administrative legal aspects of this law, for the simple reason that 39 I wanted to avoid being dragged into that kind of maze. The whole story comes down to the next one. In my opinion, the BiH state should thus express its relationship to both victims and the living, so that as MPs, we, too, show respect and show willingness to send a message to the world and to ourselves through this memorial centre that this must never and never happen again. Not in Rwanda, not in Palestine, not anywhere in the world. These are demands and family that have been going on for 2-3 years. So this law and this initiative is far older than any other Srebrenica initiative that is current today. The founder of this Foundation is, you saw her, the High Representative and with his consent, in some way, and his suggestion because the High Representative is leaving, of course, a new one is coming, but the Office of the High Representative as the founder practically ends his mandate and independently of that, I think that BiH and we here, who in some way represent, who are the most legislative body, need to understand what is being done here and do. I just want to inform you that it's an organized structure, a structure that is financially solvable, which has succeeded, thanks to the understanding of donors, etc. provide funds for the project. 2.5 thousand people, the dames are done, ready for 4-5 hundred now, about 5 hundred and all the funds for the funeral and the future 6 thousand, as far as we expect to find them, are also provided. This is about the state's relationship, so the state must show its readiness to take this memorial centre upon its own responsibility and to manage through structures that will, of course, be subsequently established. I'm really not going to ask you to support this request, but I'm going to appeal to you saying that this is a kind of exam for us. Indeed one kind of examination because we are primarily human, and then politicians and entities and different concepts, etc. Here's to not bothering you, I really, really urge you to support this approach. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If there's no debate, I'll close the debate. Please prepare to vote. So we're voting on procedure. Vote now. With 21 votes to, without against, with 8 abstentions, without sufficient entity majority, I find that no emergency procedure request has been adopted. We're about to have an agreement that I can't organize here right now because of Mr. Lozančić's lack of presence, so we'll do it later. Thank you very much. Moving to point 5. Ad.5. The request of MP Ekrem Ajanović to consider the bill on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, the crimes of 40 genocides and crimes against humanity under a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure (application of the new Rules of Procedure) Mr Ajanović submitted this bill on 24 May 2007 with a request for a shortened procedure under Article 126. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a discussion on a request for a shortened procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ajanović, therefore, the promoter needs to say a few introductory words.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11285	Thank you, Mr. President, I won't be long, but I will say that this law is primarily a legal and moral issue. This arises as a moral question, and I especially point out that, according to all the victims of the Holocaust, genocide and crimes against humanity and their loved ones, they do not experience any more humiliation than the humiliation they have received and who have lost their loved ones. That is why I hope that all well-intentioned people, and I expect plebiscite support from all well-intentioned people, above all from MPs who, and I have no doubt of their moral obligation, will support this law. As far as the legal issue is concerned, this law stems from the obligation of BiH to have as an international obligation BiH under two conventions and one UN General Assembly Convention that adopted unanimously and adopted the Resolution on the negation of Holocausts, and in addition stems from the Protocol on the Convention on Cybercrime, on the criminalisation of acts of racist, xenophobic nature, etc. which BiH ratified in 2006, so, this parliament, though not in this personal composition, has ratified this protocol, and taken the obligation to pass this law which, behold, I am proposing at this moment. On the other hand, there is an international practice that requires the adoption of this law because all the countries in Europe that, where genocide occurred, have already passed such laws, and one country in which no genocide such as Switzerland has actually occurred has also passed this law. So international practice also requires the adoption of this law. Certainly this law fits into the Law on, in fact, the Criminal Law of BiH whose publication was in the Official Journal of BiH 3/03 therefore and the heights of the fines fit into this criminal law of ours so that I believe there is no reason not to support this law, that it is adopted as such. The scope of the law is certainly not great, nor does it need to be big because this law is proposed clearly and accurately and restricts the cases of crime to only that group of crimes defined by relevant and generally accepted international law provisions. That is why I propose and expect us to support this law and accept it in this procedure in which I have proposed it, by a brief procedure. Thank you very much. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11286	Thank you, Mr. Ajanović. I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports? If there are no reports, Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11287	I thank you, Mr. President, so we're in the process today, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11288	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11289	I think I personally welcome Mr Ajanović's initiative and the need to legally regulate some of the important issues that are contained here and what I want to say is, therefore, that this law and the content of the law will be complemented by some of the relevant international conventions that have brought about the most significant multilateral organisations such as the Council of Europe, which last year brought a resolution on the suffering of the victims of the communist regimes in the post-World War II period and I think that, given the international conventions and obligations that stand in the light of this law, I expect that we will, in the debate, mean, and in the procedure, round this law so as to be consistent, to be relevant and consistent with international practice and with countries that have passed similar laws, and with being BiH, that some things are no longer repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11290	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Any further reports? If he doesn't, I'm closing the argument. Please, I'm asking you to come in on time. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11291	I did sign up at the last minute, but, look, I got offered.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11292	It's all right. I come out to meet you all the time, but I'm asking you in time to sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11293	Thank you. I also don't think this law was made in such a way that it would give MPs the opportunity to plead. If such a law is to be done at all, it must be significantly broader to cover the problem and it is my suggestion that, if possible, it should be removed 42 from the vote and that a way to go with something that would, where we would all participate in making it and give one proposal that could be accepted in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11294	Well, if we opt for a shortened procedure, there will be an opportunity for the amendment to be applied to this law, so everyone has a chance. But procedurally, it's not possible to take off now. The point is on the agenda, we're discussing it. Here, if there are no further reports, I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to vote. So we're voting on procedure. Vote now. So, who's in favour of going through a shortened procedure? 20 votes for, 4 against, 11 abstention, 19 from the Federation, 1 RS So we don't have an entity-needed majority. He's going on a date as well as the previous law. We're going to point six. It's about Ad.6. Proposal for a Law on radiation and nuclear security in Bosnia and Herzegovina Let me remind you of some elements, another reading. At the last session, we delayed the motion on this bill in the second reading by estimating that it was worth trying to find an appropriate compromise regarding the final text of the law, i.e., first and foremost the relationship to amendments that were current. I have information that a certain alignment has been made, etc., and I ask those agreeing actors to report to the House if we have positive news. Here you go, Mr. Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11296	The chairman, in line with the conclusion of the previous session of the House of Representatives, we held a discussion on the possibility of alignment in accordance with Article 94(b). The talks included distinguished colleagues and MPs, Professor Ekrem Ajanović, Halid Genjac and I. I want to inform you that we have achieved in most of these amendments consent. If, above all, this applies to the first three amendments. If, uh, I think it exists in the most part... Consents(?) On the basis of the fourth 43 amendments, if that were to happen, then we would share this proposal with the MPs and plead according to the amendments. I will say, therefore, the amendment, the agreed amendment I to Article 5(5), would read – the Agency would establish offices in the RS entity based in Banja Luka and the Federation of BiH entity based in Mostar. I understand that none of the colleagues on this have, uh, any objections. We've made two adjustments to this amendment. I think he's completely in tune now. The second amendment refers to Article 10(2), which would read - all entity health ministries may request from the Agency or via the Office in entities to supply data from their work cycle. Also, I didn't hear at this morning's consensus that he had any objections about this. From hers, I apologize, there's a typing mistake here, from her work circle.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11297	Here you go, Mr. Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11298	amandman III, in Article 14, in point 2 behind the words – to the Agency, the words are added – to the headquarters or via the Office in the entity. That's about Amendment III. And Amendment IV, which I consider to have with me here a letter and a reply relating to the position of regulatory activities, so I guess there will be an observation here, but I will say, in Article 20, paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is changed and it is said – all areas of regulatory responsibility under this law are in the jurisdiction of the Agency in which the inspection of radiation and nuclear security is made by the offices of entities. I would pray, Chairman, that I don't read the arguments, that we don't spend precious time, that they are, essentially, on the basis of the previous, uh, can participate in the debate, uh, in the previous session. When it comes to this part that he was referring to, I'm going to say that here was a disputed conversation, it's likely that colleagues will answer, I'll just say, I'll read the letter addressed to the minister, I apologize, I didn't ask the minister, but if I can read this segment sent by the International Atomic Energy Agency, or if the minister thinks he can't, I can't read. So, regulatory activities, status, thank you. Status of activities carried out by each entity, related to the Brcko District in relation to the list of sources of radiation, licensing and inspection activities, if any, etc. Two representatives are proposed to be in charge of this field. One from the Federation regulatory authority and one from the RS regulatory authority. So this is an official, uh, translation. I don't think he leaves any dilemma in Amendment IV. In the context of this, I would like to say that the SNSD MEPs' Club at Parliament's House of Representatives is ready absolutely to vote on all these amendments and vote on the law as a whole. I want to repeat once again, BiH gets the Law on Protection against radiation 44 radiation levels at BiH level, gets one very significant revolutionary body whose founder is the Council of Ministers of BiH, that is the Agency and all acts that will be the subject of this agency's activities, as many as 10-20 or 30, will exclusively have to be certified and adopted at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11299	Thank you, Mr. Prodanović. We have a technical problem here, I'm not going to say a problem but one need to have what's agreed on, but here's to hear the rest of them, five minutes to take a break to break it into some amendments and that MPs have, that they know what they're saying. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11300	You see, I think we're on a good track to get this bill, finally, is it, and after what Mr. Prodanović was talking about, I'd ask, uh, two colleagues, and there's no need for Parliament to,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11301	We can keep doing the second point
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11302	Of course, we work, uh, to go, we're in for the Higher Education Act, and they need, say, Dr. Prodanović and Dr. Genjac, they need 10 minutes to finish that part of the job outside of this room and to take it, to get us Dr. Prodanović to submit, now, the new amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11303	Corrected amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11304	Of course we're going to vote further on these amendments and on this law. Here, that would be my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11305	Mr. Zorić is just a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11306	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a half-hour break. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11307	Of course, Mr. Zorić. A half-hour break. [[PAUZA]] In the hope that he will join us very soon. So, you've got the table in line, so to speak, Mr. Lazar Prodanović's revised amendments to which we should plead. Is there any need to speak, if not, so please prepare to vote on Mr. Lazar Prodanović's corrected amendments? Amendment I. Vote now. We'll do it again. So we're going in line for the amendments. Prepare to vote. We're voting on amandman I.. glasati now. Well, those who have been corrected, I've said it twice. With 25 votes for, without against, four abstentions, 17 Federations, 8 Republika Srpska – I agree that we have adopted amandman I.. We are prelaziti, please, a little attention, moving on to Amendment II of Lazara Salesanovic. Vote now. With 25 votes for, without against, six abstentions, enough entity majority, I find that we have adopted Amendment II, Mr. Lazar Prodanović. Prepare to vote on amandman III.. Vote now. With 24 votes for, without against, 6 abstentions, enough entity majority, I also find that we have adopted Amendment III by Mr. Lazar Prodanović. We are left with amandman iv.e. Stand by. Vote now. With 25 votes for, without against, 46 6 abstentions, enough entity majority, I find that we adopted Amendment IV by Mr. Lazar Prodanović. So this is how we ended the vote on the amendments. We are now going to vote on the law, on the law as a whole, which now contains these amendments that we have just adopted. Prepare to vote. Vote now, we vote on the law as a whole. We vote in second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11309	no microphone....to repeat, we were against
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11310	I don't mind, I don't know how you voted. If you're looking again, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11311	There's no microphone on... we see there that we're not registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11312	Okay, okay, are you looking for another vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11313	Yeah, because it's registered that we've been held back, and we're against... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11314	Here, please, prepare to vote. Vote now. Of course, you have a chance to do it again, right? Okay, Jozo, another five, six times, no problem. Is the picture okay? 28 for, 5 against, without abstention, 17 Federations, 11 Republika Srpska. I agree that in the second reading, we adopted the Law on radiation and nuclear security in BiH. 47 Please, a little attention, let's work, please. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH – Second reading We passed the bill at the 9th session in the first reading. The report, the commission's report shows that two amendments have been adopted. In the plenary phase, there are no amendments, so we have a debate and a second reading vote. Is there any sign-up for discussion? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to vote in the second reading. Vote now, please, vote now. With 25 votes for, without prejudice, four abstentions, 15 Federations, Republika Srpska, I agree that we have passed the Law amending the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of BiH in a second reading. Thank you very much. Let's move on. We're going to point eight Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Higher Education in BiH – First Reading
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11317	Will one of the Council of Ministers make any opening remarks? 48
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11318	Well, this law has been in procedures for a long time, but here, if it insists. Here, of course the call is open, the call is open, the possibility is always open. So, I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. What is it, Mr. Bećirović? And you're applying, I thought you had a problem. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11319	Well, I'm sorry, is he the chairman, Mr. Belkić? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11320	First reading, principles, and then we ask if we're going to do the other thing, then change.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11321	So, first question, principles, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11322	I thank you, Mr. Belkić. I just realized, while you were talking, while you were having these silent gestures, that the president of the commission would like to, uh, turn around and I'd look out for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11323	Okay, okay, correct, sure, we should give.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11324	I'm sorry, I'm sorry the Council of Ministers won't, that no one from the Council of Ministers, the President of the Council of Ministers, I thought this was a matter for the President of the Council of Ministers, with full respect for the Minister, I'm sorry that neither the minister, whom I understand because of the delicateness of the position because this is a long-standing law by emergency procedure, this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11325	We understand your regrets, but... 49
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11326	So, I'm sorry the Council of Ministers won't, so I would ask Mr. Džaferović to take his word, so I would, if you don't mind using your right to deny me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11327	Well, of course, I don't mind. Mr. Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11328	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have the need to, on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, say a few sentences on the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, or on a report submitted by this Commission to the House of Representatives with these amendments adopted by the Commission. I have a need, for the reason that the House of Representatives is still sitting, it seems to me, since 15 March of this year, tasked the Constitutional Commission to discuss a negative, earlier negative report by the Commission on the law, to review some aspects of this law, to try to contact the Council of Ministers, the European Commission, OHR and others relevant, right, institutions related to the regulation of this issue, to address Parliament with a report that would be accepted by Parliament. So, I have a need because the commission has been sitting on several occasions since March 15th to this day. We held a number of sessions and came to this report which, as you can see, is a positive report in relation to the law because the commission with four votes in favour, without votes against and five abstentions, simply proposed this law, whether, for the first time, there were no votes against the commission. There were five abstentions, but there were no votes against it. Since the votes cast in favour of the commission, as well as here at Parliament, are taken into account those who, the votes of those present and who vote, vote in favour or against, are believed to have adopted a positive report. On the way to this report, we've done some important things, which is that we've given the amendments we've received from certain clubs to the competent ministry. Here are the minister and assistant for the field of education. Then we communicated with the European Commission and the Office of the High Representative and what you received as a report and amendments adopted in this report are mainly amendments accepted by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and agreed by the European Commission. We took the views of the European Commission as the views of the bodies that will tell us whether what we have today in law, of course with these amendments, meets some minimum criteria that BiH must meet when it comes to the Bologna Declaration and when it comes to the Lisbon Resolution. From this review, if you compare, therefore, the amendments and the original text of the law, you will notice several, I would say, important changes, and key concerns the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, popularly known as the Agency for Accreditation, because the original text of the law provided that this State Agency provides solutions for accreditation. By amending, by adopting amendments, I say, with what they agreed, all these institutions agreed, 50 are designed to prescribe standards and standards for the accreditation of higher education institutions in BiH, and that competent educational authorities, therefore, cantons and entities give accreditation, but that the State Agency has the right to insight and control in issuing accreditations, with the right to, if it finds that some issued accreditation falls under norms and standards, cancel that accreditation, so put it out of force. In this way it is secured, in full capacity, and function of the State Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, but on the other hand it is met with those political requirements. To me, of course, I loved that there was a solution left that was in the law, I'm a supporter of that solution, but it's not, it's not only relevant what I think, or a political group that I belong to, but what the others think, to ensure the passing of the law. But it is therefore ensured that this agency has this possibility of controlling and putting out of force accreditations that would be issued, which are contrary to the standards and standards prescribed by the State Agency. I think it's the most significant thing that, by consensus from the commission, after this debate, was adopted and included in the report. Here, of course, there are some amendments that have been adopted that the ministry disagreed with, and did not, not agree with other relevant institutions, but by voting in the commission these amendments have passed, as is the case. Amendment concerning the way decisions are taken by the Management Board. I, as you can see, reacted with my own amendment, but it's already out of the commission's report. In this commission's report, it's a adopted amendment and I, as chairman of the committee, on behalf of the commission when I speak, then say that's it. The assessment of us in the Constitutional Commission is that this law, on the one hand, provides a minimum of standards that BiH, in this area, needs to meet and on the other hand allows the law to pass through Parliament. That's our assessment in, our assessment on the commission. BiH will certainly benefit, young people and students will benefit from this law. This law establishes the autonomy of the university, then mobility of students, mobility of teaching and scientific staff, ensuring the same standards for all higher education institutions in BiH. One word introduces order in this very important social area. I wish that, when it comes to the capacity of the BiH state, in law, that capacity remained more prominent, but I say, not all the way to one political structure, to the political will of one, but must, I say, ensure that the law passes through Parliament and, if I wanted to say briefly in one sentence, which is, in fact, this law, which it provides, I would say, that it provides a minimum of European standards, allows BiH to go through the Bologna process on the one hand, and on the other hand, I hope, that this law passes through Parliament. I call on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to support this law. We would, in this way, adopt, therefore, this law and the Law on the Agency which, for primary and pre-school and secondary education with previously adopted laws on primary and secondary education, the Law on pre-school education and already came to the Law on this secondary education in parliamentary procedure, have from the level of the BiH state a normatively regulated area of education, in general. Of course, a lot of work will be implemented because, as is known, some of these laws have problems in their implementation. That's it, thank you. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11329	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. So, we're going in line as people applied for a hearing. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11330	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, MPs, MPs. I have a text in front of me that we've all got and I'm going to start with the paraphrasing of this as a professor. Instead of this text that begins with the students of the University of Mostar who says – we students, I can say, we teachers know best that we need the State Law on Higher Education, that we need uniform and European standards, but we will still not agree to such a bill that calls into question the state of legal certainty and unprotection and that cements the disunity of the education system and that burdens the financing of higher education and transfers them to students, as well as professors. It's an attitude that I fully consider right and using what we've all got, and I totally agree with some of their views like that. that this bill shifts the burden of funding higher education to students and unidentified institutions. Then the proposal cements the disunity of BiH's higher education, that even students have noticed that this law is in fact a result of failed negotiations in the overall reforms in BiH. I wish I'd heard from my dear colleague Džaferović whether he supports this law with his amendment or without his amendment because his amendment is only an illustration of what happened with this law. Why are we against a law like this that came from the commission? Because this law, which was before us with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, does not, in fact, give answers to why this House's assembly on 14th of this year, by adopting a conclusion, gave the Constitutional Legal Commission a mandate that, as it was then said, in consultations with the Council of Ministers, therefore, that the Council of Ministers should come out with its position on this and not, with full respect, the Minister and, behold, the Assistant Minister, who I see from the minutes, were very, uh, helpful in explaining the relevant views. The fact is that the Council of Ministers, as the Council of Ministers, did not come out with its position and proposal for this law, respecting everything it was. Since we've already, in practice, gone through the procedure quite flexiblely, I think it would be good to, respecting this debate today that, I'm sure, will certainly be fruitful, to be in charge of the Council of Ministers, so that this doesn't fail, and I think we're coming in worse if this goes through, like this. There will be an illusion that something has happened, and nothing has been done. They didn't remove capital things, we didn't get a state-owned accreditation institution and we didn't even get the possibility of state-funded higher education, watch out, not even the possibility. Because with that scientific and research work, which I congratulate the people of the commission on, which gives at least a chance for it to be financed from the budget, not that there's no obligation, as it would be logical that even if some of the states had an obligation to work. How will this be settled with the budget,..respecting the constitutional state and obligations of everyone throughout the process of adopting the Constitution, the budget pardon, but in this way has not even been resolved elementally f, fening one of the financing, is not even allowed by this law to state 52 to give. Tomorrow in the budget we may need to say, let's finance something. Someone may ask a question where is the constitutional basis, as it is..., it is not the case here. I'm not surprised the SDA gentlemen, they're going after the BiH Party and I understand them. But I'm surprised the gentlemen of the Party for BiH, as you accepted such a proposal here by which of the Management Board for Accreditation, there is, by the way, certainly no serious prerogatives, and even such serious prerogatives as it does not have, you made it the House of Peoples, and you introduced that the Governing Board decides by a supra-al majority that it must have 2/3 members of each nation. 2 out of 3 that are prescribed. So, with the constitutional amendments a little bit to you, it was a lot of 1/3 of you to participate from every nation, that was a lot to you, and now you don't mind participating 2/3, so that principle pretty much...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11331	Disappointing her, huh?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11332	My dear Beriz, unfortunately, she made me sad.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11333	She's saddened.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11334	Unfortunately, I was.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11335	Don't cry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11336	I was, uh, maybe naive to believe, believing that you guys were seriously thinking things. But what is it, it's here. What we have here to do and that is why I am sorry that no one from, for the sake of the public, please, what has been changed about this, as my colleague Džaferović said nicely, in principle, we are here somewhere. Where are we? Nowhere. Please, what did the accreditation do in the bill that was before us? She made instructions for licensing, she made unique decisions, she made clear, she made transparent, she made rules, she established procedures, she made regulations, she made decisions, she determined things. Now what's he doing by the amendment? It recommends criteria, recommends licensing, makes recommendations, provides advice, proposes general guidelines etc. And then in order to barbarch it so as not to introduce entity agencies or lower agencies here, it may also be cantonal, then it is introduced Article 49, which says, in the field of accreditation of agencies, because it is forbidden to say entity agencies, and then it is said what will be done by the state agency that in that first version of the law determined it was. Now, what's she doing? She has the authority to call something, to form a committee that, thank Bog, we know what committees are doing, that on the basis of a proposal from the competent educational authorities, you know which ones below she does not write, based on the opinion of the expert commission she makes her 53 recommendations, be careful, based on her opinion she makes a recommendation. Then he says - evaluates something and, watch out for this, this is even legal... as it is said, Šefik corrects me, says - in the field of accreditation, the Agency is competent to process and resolve the accreditation and licensing of higher education institutions to bring competent educational authorities in entities, cantons and Brcko District of BiH according to Article 1 of this Law, I read exactly as it says in the below, it's illiterate, it doesn't know what it means. So, the Agency is competent to – what – a two-pointer. Procedure and solution of accreditation. Notice that something is wrong... And you know what's behind this? This is behind it, in fact, that the Agency will be able to accredit and license the authorities in entities and cantons and in Brcko, so that, as they say here, this one, although it is unclear what it says, is the procedure and the solution in line with the indent, that the procedure they have done is in line with what they are recommending. Come on, guys, this is, I mean, this is so unserious that this, that even Švarc Šiling to read it wouldn't have taken it. I mean, well, I understand it, I'm sure a man didn't go into details, he's for these capital things, this what,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11337	Full capacity
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11338	I, in full capacity, therefore, then this someone with German translated looks like English and from English to French, so until it came across the EU to us, it turned out to be so illiterate. So, what do we got? We still have entity agencies, cantonals in Brcko that bring everything in, and this state will think something, so she can recommend, and eventually, uh, look at the like. And all that will do as the House of Peoples. And in the end, we're gonna sell the story... as it was sold to us here from this pay phone this morning, that it's a European standard, and we're gonna bring students, and professors, yes, actually, just on the news, that tonight they think they're okay. This doesn't matter in life. I, by the way, like a large number of colleagues here, we're a high school institution that's organized, working on Bologna without this law. I've been teaching in Bologna for two years. And we're looking for accreditation in Europe, without this law, and we're going to get it or we're not going to get it depending on whether we meet those criteria, not depending on what this law says. And then somebody's gonna make the law and they're gonna say, "Now it's okay, now you don't have to go to Europe, you have the law." And what's the law? Nothing. So, I'm deeply against this law. I think it's cheating on students, cheating on professors, cheating on the public of this country, that we've done something. That's why I'm against it, and I'm able to defend it at every metric event, even politically if I have to. That is why my proposal, colleague Brkić, is a proposal for a conclusion – that we see all of this finely today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11339	We're discussing first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11340	Yeah, yeah, sure. Then to task the Council of Ministers to make a little conclusion from the last time, is this, is this, is this the Council of Ministers and what is the position on, is this the Council of Ministers position 54, what is their position, not the Minister? All honors to the Minister, both past and present, whatever I think of them, such as the institution, but does the Council of Ministers have a position and stand behind him and then explain it? It is therefore up to the Council of Ministers to come up with a consolidated bill that will be in parliamentary procedure by emergency procedure, based on the discussions so far. If we don't accept that law, I call on you to bring this law down so that we can get the Council of Ministers to act accordingly. So, according to this, he should do it. And why, what's the rush? Look, we've got this law, that people know, got 14th of the emergency procedure, 14th of06, so tomorrow we got it, somebody's gonna think. No, last year 14.06. this came to Parliament by emergency procedure. It might be good if we don't push this emergency procedure anymore, this, because it seems, when it comes to an emergency procedure, that's how the haman ends. Uh, God Bog he adopts today, God Bog. I speak as a professor and as a citizen of this country and as a man who knows the procedures and the Parliament and the state and what is what. So, please, we're, I repeat again the reason I followed this, we're 14.05. ... In 1503, they tasked with resolving the financing and licensing of accreditation. Nothing's been solved, and they're looking for additional findings from the Council of Ministers, and it wasn't done as... The Council of Ministers had, indeed, two successful meetings of the Constitutional Commission where the conclusions were reached unanimously, both times to postpone the session. It is unanimously concluded until the Council of Ministers' position is obtained, which we have not received again. Right, Martina, correct me if I'm wrong. With all due respect, I, by the way, congratulate him on the way Martin's done it, and I'm against that amendment that brought the House of Peoples into this, excellent, congratulations, congratulations, it's a success, and it shows, in fact, that the ruling coalition is very happy that the SDP is not there, we wouldn't be over it. Our man wouldn't go through with it, and here, this one's gone. At the same time, I support the amendments to Martin Raguž that he delivered to us today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11341	When we get to the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11342	I support the principles of his amendments, so to get rid of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11343	You want me to...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11344	Please, I didn't hear you, I'm sorry, Beriz.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11345	The movie's still going on, I said the movie's going on. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11346	Yeah, it's going on. Well, well, let one of these smart guys take a word for it now. There they are, I'll stop. Here, here, he's found himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11347	Let's take it in a row. Let's take it in a row. Please, replica, Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11348	I'm glad Mr. Lagumdžija gave us all a moral lesson that he is under the Law of Higher Education. There's something he looks like and true. But better any law than no law. I understand Mr. Lagumdžija as a professor why he is against this law and change. According to my information, 100% accurate, I can bring in 10 witnesses who passed, passed the exam with Professor Lagumdžija, they never saw him, they don't know him. He's an assistant and he's teaching and he's writing grades. So if that's why I understood Professor Lagumdžija. The status quo suits you. We want to change, so you can at least see the students. I will bring you men from Bihac, the Sanhedrin Bridge who do not know you at all, and they have laid with you. Replica, that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11349	Just patience, Mr. Bećirović, we're all listening. We're all listening. Any more replicas? Do we have any more replicas? Here, Mr. Džaferović can't take it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11350	So, I, like, on behalf of the Constitutional Legal Commission, so this is not a replica, so this is about Mr. Lagumdžija's discussion, I need to say a few sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11351	I have to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11352	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11353	Is it a replica or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11354	You write whatever you want, and I said what it was.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11355	So say it's a replica, let me give you my word. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11356	I speak on behalf of the Commission. Chairman, I need to say a few sentences to Mr. Lagumdžija's presentation. Please, allow me to say a few sentences. The replica, therefore, here's a replica to make it easier for you all.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11357	It's not me. It's the people who checked in before.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11358	For those of you who insist, is that, on that
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11359	Here I am,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11360	It's really important, uh, like this. In the discussion of fellow Lagumdzija, there are some facts, whether, which are not at all controversial and if only I were making a decision or if only one political group had decided, this law would probably look different, and it is known to everyone in BiH and there is no dilemma about it. But still, let me say a few things that seem different to what Mr. Lagumdžija was talking about. First, the issue of funding higher education and in the original text of the law, and also in the law that was already here in Parliament, so it fell into the House of Peoples after the Constitutional Court's decision, the issue of financing higher education is not really touched. It stayed the way it is. Unfortunately, but that is because there is no political agreement in BiH to raise it to the state level. And then we only have an alternative, whether we're going to get into a situation where we have no law or we're looking for a law. So, in the original text of the law, funding, when it comes to state, has not been treated. This law has made a move when it comes to co-financing or the possibility of funding research work and that's what we could achieve agreement on. So that's one thing. The second thing that is very important to these amendments is therefore the reduced capacity originally imagined in the original text of the law described by the Accreditation Agency and that is the truth. But it is not true that it is an agency that only makes recommendations, which gives opinions because then it would be contrary to what is called the Bologna standard because according to the Bologna Declaration, this agency must play a decisive role in the process of accreditation of higher education institutions. I believe that we have managed to preserve this decisive role of the agency because it says here, in Article 48, in the first indent, that this agency sets clear, transparent and affordable criteria for accreditation of higher education institutions and lays down minimum standards in the field of higher education. So that's, that agency prescribes standards and prescribes norms. And in Article 49, Mr Lagumdžija did not read that sentence, and it says, therefore, that the agency assesses, after the competent educational authorities in entities and cantons give 57 accreditations, in accordance with the standards and standards, this State Agency assesses the compliance of the accreditation solution with the standards and criteria set out in Article 48, indent 1, so to those which it has prescribed, and in the event of any discrepancies, makes a recommendation to the Management Board to take further measures until the measure of repealing the accreditation solution, therefore, this agency has the right to annul. If it wasn't for this provision, then Mr. Lagumdžija would be absolutely right because then it would be an agency that actually only recommends, and there's no capacity, administrative capacity. She has this administrative capacity here and that's what you're looking for by standard. That, therefore, high, higher education is organised in a unique way for the whole country. I had the need, therefore, to say these few sentences and Mr Lagumdžija is right, here is a mistake, therefore, in the preceding indent, please, please, just a little bit, so here is a mistake – the procedure and the solution of accreditation and licensing of higher education institutions are bringing competent educational authorities here, therefore, should stand, it can therefore be fixed, so the procedure is carried out or implemented and the solutions on accreditation are made etc., etc. Here I had a need to say those few sentences. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is what can be achieved at the present time in BiH when it comes to the Law on Higher Education, which can be achieved when it comes to the political will of those who make the decision. We held a committee meeting on several occasions to discuss these matters. It's up to you to define yourself one way or another. I will not be angry with anyone who votes, but I will vote for this law because I believe this law brings benefits to BiH, young people, students. Of course, it's not the best, it's not the way I'd want it, but it's better than the existing condition. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11361	Wait a minute, uh, let's make a deal. If you're reporting for a replica, it's a replica. Mr. Džaferović, here you are, you have me, you have all said this in the opening statement as president of the commission. Whoever wants to hear it will hear it. You can't do it three times, can you? Well, people complain to me, he can't appear twice before other people for discussion. You can't, Mr. Džaferović. Let's replica, who's got the replica? Here you go, replica. And what is in you is the replica, Ajanović, before, before, before, well, well. The order, you used to say, Zlatko, then the Šefik.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11362	First, at the very least, it is distasteful that a university professor and a longtime parliamentarian compares legislation with constitutional amendments. This is incomparable because constitutional amendments are the most something that can be in some parliamentary procedure, adoption. So, that's first, least of all untasteful. Secondly, I have to say one thing here, which is – in the formation of the new government, Zlatko Lagumdžija and SDP focused their entire discussion on the non-addition of the Law on Higher Education and reminded that, in fact, the sole culprit for the non-compliance of this law was 58 of the then Civil Affairs Minister. Since it was right for him at that time to appear as one, this, a fighter for democracy, for certain rights, etc., now it is the opposite, means he is reusing the same law, but with the opposite principles proposed by his, uh, SDP in the formation of power, that this law brings chaos, which is essentially not true. About the discussion about the law I wouldn't do anymore, I'd just replicate what I had to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11363	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija's replica. Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11364	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. First, Mr. Džaferović, to be very clear, and this confirmed by his replica Mr. Ajanović, probably not, I was also against the law proposed by Minister Halilović because there was no funding in him. And then I was at a session on 31.03.2004 and at discussions that were held afterwards I was against the law because it does not solve funding through state law. So then I was against it. And now that law, which I was against, is now still loose, so I'm even more against it. Because now some other things are loose. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Džaferović, you have accepted that this law is changed to a name, you forgot to say. It's no longer the Law on Higher Education, you've introduced the word frame, and you know why you introduced the word frame. Because other laws will resolve that. This is incomparably lower, incomparably lower than what you won't agree to when it comes to police reform, if the Higher Education Act agrees with even more looser things. And now in the end, let me be clear. Since you said that whoever's going to be here changed a little bit, let me tell you what's changed. In Article 49, which you changed, it was up to the Agency for Accreditation to quote: - it makes a decision on accreditation and licensing of universities, i.e. higher education institutions. The decision cannot be appealed, but a administrative dispute can be held before the BiH Court of Justice. What did you do now? You are now, true, here's a little bit of an explanation for this, this inaccuracy, right, grammatical. Now you've led the Agency, instead of making a decision on accreditation, it makes criteria, and the criteria are nothing more than what they sent us from Brussels, so there's nothing to torture a lot. And then the decision takes, as you yourself said, the same thing that the State Agency made in Halilovic's law, now you've given it to entities, Brcko and cantons, and this state can, as you say here, cancel accreditation. You know how? How the House of the People, with the two-thirds, understood. I want to cut the story short. The law that was before us two years ago was insufficient for the reason I was talking about because state funding was not respected. And this law didn't resolve it, and it loosened up the State Agency for what it did, practically, to someone who translates standards that come from the EU to get them exercised, as one of my professors, uh, at lower levels, would say. So I'm still thinking the same way I thought then, but obviously, we have a mental problem. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11365	Thank you. Next, Mr. Novaković signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11366	I'm up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11367	And for the discussion. It's like this to me... replica, Mr. Jovičić, Mr. Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11368	The Honorable Chairman. I don't know if it's a misquote or a replica for dr. A liar? It is indisputable that Mr. Lagumdžija is an experienced politician. First they'll commend the promoter that it's good, then they'll say they won't vote for it, and it's in his manner, which no one can argue with. But it's his fault that something was given to the entity. This is where the entities, who had full jurisdiction over education, transfer something to the agencies. What's the big deal now? That's why you'll always hear the story, because of the public, that Mr Lagumdžija or someone else from the opposition, especially from the SDP, are fighting for the people, for the youth, for the students, for the education, for the accused, as they say, the ruling coalition, which is not true, but these are partner relations to make BiH work, and you'll always have it in the public how, like, we're a remethyling factor so we don't want to help youth, so that's why they're moving out, so when they finish colleges run away from here, etc. So, this story every time it's mentioned, in a negative context and there's no reason to mention what entities are guilty here, who had total jurisdiction over education, the Dayton Agreement, this is about constitutional matter. And it's precisely because we contribute to making something useful for everyone and the professors and the students, so whether or not anyone has seen these students professors or not, we won't be there to hunt them around the university, someone else is doing it, but, please, what the people would say, this story no longer drinks water. Nothing can happen here by transferring some responsibilities without constitutional changes. Now it's time for dr. A Lagumdžija to say, so get into reform, you have a majority. Well, you know, we've entered every reform, but it's no longer possible to do what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11369	Mr. Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11370	I'm having a discussion, right? That's what he said.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11371	No, this is for replica. Anyone else sign up for the replica, maybe? If it isn't, then you can discuss it. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11372	Thank you. I must say that it is very difficult to talk about the Law on Higher Education when you have such a disoriented structure of government as we have in BiH and when you do not set the goals of the education system in BiH at the state level. We need to pass laws from the education system, in this case, the Law on Higher Education, and no one at the state level has yet made strategic documents on the development of the education system in BiH. And when you have such power, when you have such a condition, then it is no wonder that a bill like this comes to the BiH Parliament, now at first reading, which is not bad, this is an extremely bad law for BiH. Of course, we must, for the sake of the people of this country, remind us why we don't have this law by now. Why we're the only country that doesn't have the Higher Education Act. Four years ago, it expires this year, and now we still haven't passed that law. We don't have it because there's no responsibility in this country. We're investing huge funds, and we don't have the law, we don't have the results. In the last 4 years, only the Ministry of Civil Affairs has spent 20 million marks, 9.4 million marks are foreseen for this year, etc., not to mention how much is foreseen for Parliament's work, and we do not have basic laws that have normal European states. And the more defeating it is the fact that no one in this country feels responsible for the situation. To ask anyone in the ruling structures will always say that they are the others and thus goes in circles. We here must remind you of a very important fact. In September 2003, BiH formally submitted the necessary documentation to join the Bologna process. And this country has committed itself to working until 2010 to create a European space for higher education. So from 2003 to 2007, here's four years, what did we do for those four years? Here's what we did. Of the 40 ranked European states, BiH is in the final, 39th place following the implementation of the Bologna Process. Science investments are a minimum of 0.2% and account for only 2% of the investments BiH had in science in 1991. BiH has less than 5% of the highly educated population. Only 15% of the relevant generation, therefore, between 18 and 24 years of age, is enrolled in secondary education degrees. So, only 15% in BiH, and for example I list several countries: Slovakia and the Czech Republic 22%, Ireland 38%, Denmark 45%, Norway 58%, Finland 70%. So, scores that BiH has a large number of students do not fully stand. When it comes to solutions that, here, we have in this law, there are really huge gaps and huge shortcomings in this law. Look only at Article 3 of this Act, which speaks of goals and importance. There are many, very important principles that should have been specified by this law, such as academic freedoms, academic self-government, university autonomy, respect and human rights affirmation, etc., etc. Just look at article 12 of this law that speaks of students' rights. No European law, which regulates students' rights, is as restrictive to students as this bill is today before us. And it is no wonder, not only that, that students from Mostar, but students from all over BiH, are against such solutions when you do not have the elementary rights of students who are not incorporated into this law, and that I do not take into account what are fundamental rights, such as the right to 61 have a quality study and educational process as provided for by study programmes, freedom of opinion and presentation of attitudes during teaching, completion of studies within a short period of time, restation of student obligations during military service, during pregnancy and up to a year of child's age, during longer illnesses, etc., and that I do not really collect those basic rights of students that are regulated in all the laws in European countries, in our proposal, now not more laws, but framework laws, there is no more. See article 16 of this law, which speaks of the Senate of a higher education institution. This article should be substantially extended and amended. I must say that I am against the solution in Article 16. – the final position that the number of members, composition and manner of work of the Senate is determined by the Statute of the Higher Educational Institution. I believe that there should be several provisions in this law that speak of this, except for the attitude to determine it by the Statute. Here in this law, it is certainly necessary to add that the Senate ensures a balanced representation of different fields of science, art and individual teaching and scientific parts of the university. At least, and that's what the law should say, 60% of the Senate members should be staffed in teaching and scientific knowledge. These provisions are not in the law, and I find it extremely important. Article 15 of which speaks about the Management Board, the first position is – The Management Board has between 7 and 11 members, of which at least 1/3 appoints the Founder and the others appoints the Senate in accordance with the Statute. Look, this is a very important member of this law and a very dangerous provision in this law. I think it is mandatory to change this position by law that the founder has the highest right of 1/5 to appoint the Board of Directors. The state co-operation commission with UNESCO stresses that the law wants to maintain political influence on higher education. Such a provision would allow political oligarchs in this country to continue to collapse university autonomy. The Governing Board should choose the Senate 50%, and besides the founders, why not consider the possibility of having a representative of the local self-government or one representative of the Chamber of Commerce, etc., as is done in other countries. Article 15, so this attitude 1, is one of the most dangerous parts of this law, and I am openly saying that this kind of solution hits university autonomy, academic freedoms, and if this provision remains, then it is certain that we will have political governance at universities, and we will not have that autonomy of the university that everyone is talking about. In Article 15, I believe that, among other things, it should be defined that members of the Management Board, or members of the Management Board, should not be able to be established beyond the key content decisions and characteristics that each member should have. The board members must have some experience in university-related affairs, not having a situation like it has been the case at individual universities in BiH so far, that people who have nothing to do with universities are named on boards. And then most of those appointed by the founder, is, in these boards, deciding on the university, on the fate of the university, etc. Although these people, therefore, are not connected to the university at all. Here, before me, they also talked about this article 52nd in the Statute and the bodies of the Higher Education Development Agency. Such solutions in one law on higher education do not exist anywhere, not in Europe, on a globe, there is no such solution as 62 offered to us here in this law. This article in 52, if you did not look at previous members, you would think that this is a member who regulates the work of the BiH People's House, not one agency under one law. This is a truly short-lived compromise that devalues the fundamental European values and standards and goes to the souls of those who possibly vote it. This Article 52, and this solution, is an obvious example of a total over-emphasis of ethnic and national principles on all other criteria. This solution roughly tramples all characteristics and principles in the selection of the agency. We should probably legally specify other characteristics not to slow down and national characteristics, but here in this law you won't find a word that speaks of social, generational, professional, intellectual and many other characteristics. What is proposed is indeed mutilating the country's educational site, but also an obstacle on a normal European pathway. We of the SDP want to make it very clear that there is no one right in this law, as the only exclusive identification system, to introduce a national degree of identification because the citizens of this country have other types of identification that we have talked about. The great weakness of this law is that there is no answer at all, no mechanism to at least initially face this law with a single universal crisis of morality, ethics, lack of academic criteria, responsibilities, etc. What if we didn't lie to each other there's one at the universities in BiH. In the serious countries of higher education laws, there is a whole chapter on ethics in higher education and scientific activity. In this law that is before this Parliament today, there is no chapter, no member, no sentence about it. And that's another very serious flaw why we are against this law in this form. BiH certainly needs a high education ethics committee tasked with promoting both ethical principles and values. BiH in this area, therefore, also needs an ethical code that will establish ethical principles in higher education. I must say that, too, it is highly unacceptable that this rotten compromise has occurred so that this is no longer even a law on higher education but is now a framework law on higher education. So the version that was significantly worsened, and it was not adequate to what BiH should right now. I think this law, as someone said here, is the most we could achieve, this is the least that we in this country could achieve with this law. I think that we should absolutely vote against this version of the law and try on the basis of all these discussions, discussions, knowledge, etc., and there are some new knowledge to suggest that we adopt this conclusion and that we have the opportunity, as MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly, to possibly submit amendments to the second reading, to at least try to correct a part of this text, given that today's legislation is being considered in the old Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11373	Mr. Novaković. Replica, I'm sorry, Mr. Novaković. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11374	Mr. Bećirović said nothing new but as his mentor, Zlatko Lagumdžija. It's all the same as how it started and ended.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11375	(no microphone turned on)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11376	That's tačan, you started, first you said there's no law for four years, there's no law, there's no law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11377	You spoke to Denise for 15 minutes. I didn't warn you. You talked for 15 minutes. We're toleranced. Free country. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11378	There's no law, and they're against any law. If they were to ask themselves, there would never be any law until they were in power. Well, gentlemen, you were in power during the Alliance, what did you do? You're nothing. If you'd done anything, you'd be in power now. Well, I'm replicating you because you were talking. I told you everything. What did you do? Nothing. They've installed indictments, arrests, prisons. Sold state property 5 times the price. To deliver an Algerian group, would you want a country like that? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11379	Gospdin Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11380	I have to say when there's a need for a replica, then, according to our Rules of Procedure, whether or not, it should replicate if it doesn't agree with some views. Mr. Bahtić has appeared for the second time, although no replica has a slight connection to the agenda point. That's it. He has no idea what we're discussing and the story of banks, etc., and, Mr. Belkić, if the length of the discussion has exceeded the time, you're here to warn that part, but I accept part of the criticism because it is necessary to stick to the Rules of Procedure. And I suggest to Mr. Bahtić that at least once in 2-3 months he reads some law and that he discusses something metrically, rather than having such a provincial discussion, primitively, without having any idea what he's discussing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11381	Replica. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11382	However, I do not have time to study the criminal activities of you from the SDP that you have been doing in the past. You've done so much crime in this country, you've damaged this country so I can doctor at SDP's criminal activities in large privatisations. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11384	It's going to be really short now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11385	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11386	When a man replicates to you like this, it's enough to say that you have no more replicas after him. He's his own greatest replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11387	Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11388	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, you see, since my colleagues have not broken up in the respect of Article 69. A Rules of Procedure that says it's 10 minutes, so, time to discuss, here, I'm really going to try to be as brief as possible. In fact, before some of my colleagues volunteered for the discussion, I had a big dilemma about how I would treat this law, or how I would vote. I saw that this law and I see that this law has many shortcomings, but then after their discussion, I found that there was much good in it. I had a chance and I heard it was a good version that was first. And it was never adopted, and even in the Council of Ministers, it was not adopted with the votes of Serbian ministers. She's so good she didn't have a chance to pass. Then I heard that the commission disbanded the State Agency, as my colleague Lagumdžija said, even though there was no state agency until this law. She didn't even have anything to loosen up because she wasn't there. Because it's the first time it's ever been created. But, well, that's, of course, the questions, some of them made a dilemma for me when I was thinking about this law. What's what I'm absolutely sure of? I'm sure, first of all, we need this law. Whether he's like this, right in this text or something different, but we need him. Not only do we need what the international community wants from us, we need much more what they expect from us, so those to whom this law will apply most. 65 I am also sure that a lot of effort has been put into this law, i.e. in this version that today is ahead of us, that a lot of effort has been put into it. Whether enough, of course, each of us can assess whether we've received a text that fully satisfies all our desires and ambitions and that's also the thing that we can think about. What I'm not entirely sure is that even after the adoption of this law, the students in this country will be better off. I'm not even sure that they'll be better off, after all, and because of some things that we haven't talked about today, so, among other things, and about minimum conditions for selecting academic staff in scientific and teaching professions where it also seems to me, in this law to an insufficient extent, that area, to a limited extent, is being processed and it seems to me that in that particular part of the students will be in some way, so the quality of their teaching, the quality of their education, is, in some way, conditioned. I'm not even sure whether this law guarantees enough autonomy and university independence, especially college. What I am also not sure is whether after the amendments, there is a transfer of competence from the entity to BiH level. That's why I sent a letter on May 16th, so in 2007, I asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Education to deliver an opinion on whether there was a transfer of competence after the amendments. I did not get the government's position on the matter, or at least it did not respond in writing to this proposal. But what I also want to say here, and what I'm sure, is that it is necessary to give a chance to the institutions that need to implement this law. I think it's better to have a law like this than not to have one. And we're not in a position to choose between maximum demands. So that's what I'm now assigned in some other direction than these shortcomings I've been talking about. With all this in mind, therefore, there remain dilemmas whether we could have come to a better text, of course we could have. But also one dilemma shouldn't be after this, it's whether this law means progress to us. So, with all the drawbacks, it seems to me that this is progress, and with all these shortcomings, it seems to me that it represents a step in which, at this point, or for which it has the capacity at this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11389	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Dokić. We have another Mr. Dolić reported. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? Come in on time. So, Huskić, is there more, here, Velimir, Alajbegović, Križanović, Kalabić. What, are you going somewhere? Do you need a break, what is it? Maybe, guys, if you want to take a break, it's not a problem. Do you want a break? Mr. Zorić, can I have one? And you wouldn't, next time, okay. Here you go, Mr. Dokić. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some MPs who left and probably thought I'd speak from the professor's position. I am a professor, but
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11391	They are afraid of a large number of reported
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11392	But first of all, I am an MP here and I will speak as an MP who has a teacher's experience. Why am I stressing this? I stress that we can, within the framework of the professorial round tables, express our opinion on what would be better if something like this were to happen. But as MPs, I would like to point out and remind each of us that at the first session when we became MPs, we took an oath guaranteeing that we would work in accordance with the BiH Constitution and that is the main part of our oath. Therefore, what MPs decide and make must be in accordance with the laws and, above all, in accordance with the Constitution of the State of which they are MPs. The policy that is within the framework of these laws and the Constitution is politics, and all that is beyond that is politics. So here, too, we need to talk about constitutional frameworks, and I wouldn't look back on some of the memos that we've got here, some young colleagues who are flirting with the expressions of unconstitution. If we were to look literally at the letter of the BiH Constitution, then this law should not even be passed at the state level because it is an explicit issue of competence over education on entities. And I want to remind you that education is a domain of cultural autonomy, and cultural autonomy is one of the lower aspects of autonomy. I don't think I'm explaining any further, that you're completely clear on what I wanted to say to the team. Literally, under the Constitution of BiH, these issues regulated by this law were one way or another to be regulated by a contract or agreement between entities. And this is one let's say, a good compromise that can still be found in constitutional frameworks and does not require any entity to make decisions on the transfer of jurisdiction. So this is the bottom line below which you could not go without asking for the launch of the issue of transfer of jurisdiction. These were precisely the basic reasons why one part of the ministers in the previous meeting of the Council of Ministers did not support the previous version of the law because the decisions to finance at the state level and the decisions that would give the Agency or some other executive bodies would, in fact, derogate constitutional competences and require the transfer of those powers. So my discussion comes down to saying one conclusion that this proposal with these amendments it has adopted has been adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, a political consensus within the framework of the BiH Constitution. And it may be, it may be, but it may not be a guarantee that significant issues are raised after this in the context of higher education reform in BiH. I would also like to stress that not only some of the colleges mentioned here but also a lot of BiH universities are working on the Bologna Declaration, according to the Bologna Process, I would like to remind you, and you also know that those who have made quite critical views about this law that BiH's accession to the Bologna 67 declaration and the Bologna process have been signed by entity ministers. I want to remind you that the other state that signed the Bologna Declaration is Belgium and that it is also not a signator of the State Minister, but you know what their structure is, so they signed two ministers on behalf of the Valonac and the Flamanac. What do I mean by that? And without this law, we can go to European processes in the area of higher education and absolutely not the fact that this is a brake. This is just an opportunity to establish standards that should apply throughout BiH, measures have been introduced to control how to implement these standards and, if there is a good will, we will be able to meet those standards which, in the end of the day, Europe will control whether or not we apply them, and will depend on whether we will receive a licence for an individual higher education institution or not. Of course the text could have been better and no law gave us the perfect text. Any MP may have these or those remarks. In that context, I will suggest, if at all possible, that some things are corrected, but I will not insist on them, precisely by handling this fact that we will never get to something that is perfect. Here I will start with this report of the Constitutional Commission and these amendments and call on your attention to Amendment III, which says that in Article 10, paragraph 1, indent 2 is changed and reads – refers to a higher education institution that implements at least 5 different study programmes from at least three scientific areas, and states what scientific areas they are. I personally think this provision, that we didn't need it. That it's creating too wide a framework for the establishment of this facility. This is about the university. I think it was enough to stand, at least, this first part, at least five different study programs. Read about it so far, it's five colleges. I want to remind you that you have as many technical colleges in Europe as you want. Here this provision makes it impossible for us to form a university that would have five technical partners in it. And according to the Bologna provisions, here I will now refer to my professorial experience, it should be a model that should be applied in BiH given the centralised way of funding, the centralised decision-making method, centralised student management, etc. The galamatics scattered half of BiH from 15-20 colleges, completely different scientific areas, I think we're going to need a lot of, a lot of time to make it work. So my suggestion, but I don't insist, if at all possible, delete this from three scientific areas. This would mean that this technical college would have to have at least one social or one medical or etc., etc. That's one thing. The second thing, in law itself, I think that too mildly defined are the minimum conditions for the choice in the source of the teacher's calling. However, these are minimal, no one contests an entity or canton that is definitely in the final instance making decisions to set stricter criteria. But, look, here it says minimally, for example, for an extraordinary professor of five scientific papers published in recognised publications. The recognized publication is also the publication published by a parent college where a teacher will be chosen. It is recognised, verified, has its number etc., etc. You don't need to be told what that means. I'm going to report work to my colleague who's the editor of this magazine, and I'm the editor of a magazine, so, look, I'm going to give him a pass to do these five minimum papers here. I personally think that here should have been defined and invited to magazines with a corresponding 68 impact factors, which are worldly magazines and that there can't be someone regular professor who doesn't have at least three, here I wouldn't go to eight after, but in total if there are three, five, papers in my career being impact factors, I'd give him a profession, this is not how it's going to work. And one more thing that I pointed out and, here, at these discussions within the Council of Ministers, but I must admit that I didn't, that some colleagues didn't understand me. It's about the next one. In BiH, it's a practice for a teacher to choose a subject, I think it's completely wrong. It is my suggestion, if at all possible, that in this article where the choice of title is spoken, I do not know which member, just to add one sentence – that the teacher is elected to the scientific field. Why does he say that? You know that according to the Bologna Declaration we have a number of items that are electoral, it's a large number of items. It's impossible to have, it's impossible to have selected teachers on all these subjects. Or we'll get into a situation where that object surrenders to be handed over by someone who's not chosen. In a world elsewhere, it is the dean who each year determines which subject the teacher will teach. On the other hand, here, I'm just gonna say this one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11393	We've got eight more reported, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11394	I'll be done in a minute, really, I promise. Take an Example With Us
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11395	Eight, there'll be more.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11396	Wait a minute, regular professor.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11397	You've spoken twice already.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11398	A regular professor is once elected and has no re-election, normally until 45, if someone became a regular teacher, it would normally be, even in our terms. He works up to 65, so 20 years, you've tied him to the same name of the case, you don't have a chance to change it, etc. That I don't explain to you what manipulations all provide this possibility of what it's like now for teachers to choose objects. So, my suggestion, just one sentence to say, teachers are elected to scientific areas since this is a state-level law, all others who pass lower acts will have to adapt to it. Thank you for being patient. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11399	Thank you, Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11400	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11401	It's all written down, Azra, it's all written down.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11402	The proposal for a law on higher education, as we can see, is in the process exactly a year and I get the impression that, unfortunately, no rational consensus of those who make up the parliamentary majority has been reached to this day. I'm afraid this apparent consensus that has now been reached is at the expense of the quality of the law. This law is one of the reform laws, regardless of how we treat it and its parliamentary path is the right picture and opportunity for total reforms and political situations in BiH. I can understand that education, especially higher education, is a matter of strategic interest and political entities, but I cannot understand that the issue is so much politicised. I think education today is the thing about which we have the least reason and the right to politicize. If we cannot provide young people with work today and protect their dignity by doing so, then we have a moral obligation, of course, to provide them with education according to programmes and conditions compatible with those in the democratic world. Young people cannot and must not be hostages to our politics and must not allow ourselves to be intellectually disabled at a time when quality and program compatible education is their only chance for their future. I, for rational reasons, did not submit amendments to the proposed Law on Higher Education at this stage of the debate and will not talk about its content even though I would have a lot of objections to the proposed text of the law. The law on higher education is therefore very necessary, but I would agree with one of the predecessors that this is too important an area to adopt, however, any law. I'm inclined to support any progress, but I don't care how much that progress will be compared to chaos, true chaos, which we now have in the area of higher education. So I will support this law on higher education in first reading if it implies the conclusion that the Council of Ministers and all of us make further efforts to make this law truly a significant reform step and the greater step forward in regulating this strategic area. I think that, in spite of the time going by tirelessly for us, we still need to find time, and I hope that there will be more political will for those who make up the parliamentary majority in this House in order to get quality law. Thank you very much. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11403	I thank Mr. Dolić. The next reported MP, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11404	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The framework law on higher education, the very name itself tells him, therefore, that the framework is and that further regulation of this area is needed. This is where my predecessors spoke of the great importance of higher education, I fully agree. If we keep in mind the fact that today's time, the time of knowledge, and in the future especially the time of knowledge, therefore, when knowledge will be increasingly appreciated and the necessary and necessary prerequisite for the development of the common society. The fact that a very small percentage of high-school graduates in BiH continue studies is devastating and I think it would be good if we had, in the context of this procedure and discussions, a single cross-section of higher education with the most important indicators, which is the percentage of high-school students who continue to study, the percentage of those who enroll to those who finish, then the average costs per student enrolled, graduated, etc. All these are very, very important data and input data for one quality debate on this law. The document, i.e. in the light of this law, says one quite good sentence that should be taught - the undergraduate degree is based on at least three years of study and is considered to be the necessary level of qualification in the European labour market. What does this sentence mean? So it is precisely that it has become a standard in the labour market in Europe, the EU, exactly the ranking, level of education, completed college, higher education. And now I'm asking all of us here, I'm going to turn in my debate only to the problem of having one solution from this law, and that's how we're going to ensure a large enough percentage of people to finish high education if we didn't plan to finance higher education in a good way, and I'm saying, that's my opinion, that's the biggest failure. In addition to all that others have said, my predecessors, in this professional section about what are the conditions for someone to be chosen as a teacher, for a regular professor, etc., etc. In that part, I wouldn't really spend any words, because, I mean, that part of the law was done by people whose profession, job, academic community, etc. And I wouldn't even comment on it. But I must repeat, I think it is a missed opportunity, however, to regulate this law on how to finance from BiH level because then it would also prove that we consider high education to be very important and important here again in this document, therefore in the light of this law, it is said that higher education is an activity of particular interest to BiH. Now I'm asking a little question, if that's what we've determined, I agree with that. Then why didn't we predict that even in our way of funding, we would stick to this commitment? So, that common education, indeed, is an activity of special interest for BiH, for the future of BiH, for the future of young people and for all of us. Of course, there are those who oppose this kind of thinking and they will say that the constitutional structure is such in BiH, we all know it very well, we don't even have to comment on it. However, in the last two years some things have changed, I would say for the better. 71 The fact that VAT has been introduced, that a single account has been introduced and that institutional conditions have been created that something can, if important and important, and high education is important to finance from BiH level. I think that would ensure those goals that we all have in our heads, if perhaps not written by the RES and the Council of Ministers, therefore, the goals in terms of higher education, and that, in this way, I am sure, we could have much easier conditions to achieve those objectives. As far as funding priorities are concerned, we are very well aware of how they are determined, therefore, to us, not by our will, but with a recommendation or, I don't know, the advice of the IMF and other international organisations, it is said that the BiH institutions' budget sets out the priorities of funding and, firstly, it is put forward, to know what, BiH's external debt. Why? There is no need to explain this, I believe that funding for higher education must certainly be found among the BiH funding priorities. The fact that only 5%, 10%, or as many as it already is, is a very small percentage of high-school graduates enrolled in colleges compared to one Finland that has developed over the past decade to an extent that today they single out up to 8% of their gross education product. Northern Ireland, which has reached such a high level of development in recent decades and may be about behind Finland, etc., and in BiH very, very little. The percentage of those who enroll in our studies is small, those who end up small again from this percentage that enrolls. In one Finland, over 60%, 70%, ends, graduates over 75% again, then we see what we have for the result. We have that the percentage of highly educated people in developed countries in Finland, Norway, Ireland and other European countries is constantly increasing, and in our country remains at a level that is today, and I am afraid of this kind of relationship, first of all, in the way of funding I fear that this percentage will not change or improve more significantly. Here, I really wouldn't have kept in mind the fact that there's been a lot more of my colleagues, and the debate has moved on, of course, what I'm saying we still have a chance to fix, there's an amendment that treats this particular issue and I expect and I call, in fact, all my colleagues to adopt this amendment, and by not touching anything else in the Framework Law, I'm sure I can fix this law to that extent that it can be acceptable to everyone and to the benefit of everyone, especially the students, and also the teaching staff and the whole society.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11405	We have one replica. Here's Azra.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11406	... on Mr Velimir Jukić's discussion, which refers to the percentage of the population studying, this and the direct link in his discussion with the financing of higher education. We must at no time forget a few important facts that I would just like to point out, it is, firstly, that we have a high degree of unemployment, secondly, that the country that came out of the war in transition, thirdly, that we have a high degree of rural population, then that an extremely large diaspora is a young population and you see, let's say in the Sarajevo Canton where I've been working for many years, that we actually have an older population and more and more people of a third age, that our birth rate is very small, that every day the number of deaths is greater than the number of born, so we have a white plague. And what you were talking about is multifactorially conditional, not only is it not conditioned that people can't study and what's a particular problem, and that's the problem of what this completed study offers in one sense to that young man who finished his studies. I responsibly argue that this study does not offer anywhere near the degree of a possible standard that would motivate it to study. Study of Medicine, for example, which was a prestigious study 20 years ago where 1. 500 people in 150 places now don't have enough registrations. Why? Because this study of medicine, later, did not allow this young medicine doctor to live his life in an adequate, dignified, and correlation with a degree of education. So, on the other hand, the passing of that study of medicine outside this country was nothing, and our doctors who went outside could have been maids, drink carriers and nothing else. They even had to, if they had finished high school, take a course for the foster parents, because their studies had not been recognized. For this reason, one of the reasons why we must in some way respect the Bologna Process and respect the harmonisation of these laws with Evropa is that our studies and diplomas are recognised in the world and that we have a pass-by and ultimately when we have a pass and students and these university workers we will have a safer quality education. Because we can't learn all the science here, we have to go into the world to see what the world is doing, what are scientific achievements, to bring them here, to apply them, and that's the only way we can do it. I, by the way, applied for a discussion that I would give up on, but if I was allowed by the chairman, I would say more about Mr. Dokić, about standards, about scientific, or progress in calling, these are minimum standards. However, of course, the standards of Western European countries are different if it is taken into account that 0.5% of GDP is separated for science, then the question is now raised – with what right we are asking before that scientific worker or that university assistant who has a salary of 500, 600 marks that in some way from her own resources, in a situation where she must live both life and father and mother and all the expensive infrastructure of life, she must further invest in herself. I think these are minimum standards, that we need to pursue higher standards if we're going to set people more standards, then we have to have transitional solutions so that people who are doing classes at this point wouldn't find themselves fishy. And I'm giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11407	But here, there's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11408	Just what my colleague Azra said goes in favor of what I advocate. So, I think that funding for higher education must be a priority, and first we need to invest in education in order to get it back through general socio-economic progress. Of course, given the difficult social situation of a significant part of the BiH population, we must bear in mind that for this very reason it is necessary to give a special status and put into priorities 73 of funding, funding for higher education so that neither part of it nor a small part of it has fallen to students and many of them are not able to finance a part of their education.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11409	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I fully respect, therefore, the fact that before me there were a lot of colleagues and colleagues who spoke on this bill and I respect, too, the fact that there were also reported after me. So, I'm not going to repeat any of what's been said so far. But I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that we do not have a Council of Ministers on such an important law. It is, therefore, one area that represents the main basis for the development and future of a country. And why am I saying that? Because it has become a practice for us to, since we have no defined policies in the Council of Ministers, neither in education nor in development, nor in social programmes, nor in sports, nor in culture, nor in infrastructure, etc. And so, then we are in a position to come to some consensus in our commissions, and it's said, here, this is very difficult to achieve, listen, let's not spoil it, better than nothing. Unfortunately, it's one condition in which we live today. But, you see, it's not over. So, we're having a hard time getting to some laws, but the main problem is then in their implementation. You see, there's been a speech here today that remains very much indeterminate, unformed things, undefined in jurisdiction, etc. So the question is – Who will implement it later and how will it be implemented? And for this reason, I would suggest that, in the end, I would like to reconfirm my colleague Lagumdžija's proposal that, respecting today's debate which has shown, indeed, and a lot of new and many new moments here, that we leave 15 days of room for a new amendment action and inclusion, the active involvement of the Council of Ministers in this proposal, therefore, until this second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11411	Here I am also a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission and I feel the obligation of a human being to say something about this law. I'm not going to talk about the law and I don't think it would be right on my part to talk about the essence of the law since there are a lot of colleagues here who are professors at the university who are closer to matter and who can talk much more relevant than me. But I would like to say the following, how difficult and complicated this law is and how many other things that burden the situation in BiH say and the fact that it has been in, uh, parliamentary procedure for over a year. I must say that the Constitutional Commission is really very, I would say thoroughly, very responsibly, that it worked and had 74 extraordinary co-operation with the Council of Ministers, here, there is a minister and assistant and I don't think it's correct to call them because they came to the Constitutional Commission, defend the views of the Ministry or the Council of Ministers or both. That there have been a lot of amendments and, unfortunately, we have come, here, to some compromise or fortunately to compromise, uh, this text. I also, like many colleagues, have many, would have many grudges, uh, interventions on many members, but, uh, we can't agree on that. And I want to say this, because of responsibility or, I have asked myself as to whether it is irresponsible to accept such a text of the law or more irresponsible to reject it, and I thought that it was more irresponsible, or that it was a responsibility to accept such a text of the law, and I voted on the Constitutional Commission for it. What the dilemmas on the commission were talking about, says the Commission's report, is whether. There were four votes for and five abstentions, so, and these people who were abstentions didn't want to be against it so they wouldn't question, and for that, here I am, congratulating my colleagues and thanking you. So, we all had some dilemmas, and it might happen, here's what would have happened if we'd all been restrained. We'd have a stalemate. So we've come to this position and I have no intention of supporting any further amendments, even though I'm convinced they're of quality. Just because I think the law would come into question and I think it would be irresponsible on my part, I at least feel like, uh, accepting amendments and breaking the law, and I'm not going to accept any amendments, and I'm calling on all my colleagues not to accept anything, and we're going to pass the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11412	Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11413	I don't think it's a good message to continue this debate with such an exclusive attitude that we won't accept any amendments or corrections. Obviously, from all the discussions that have been heard today, there is a lot of need to make some adjustments. But there's one thing, we've made dozens of remarks today in this debate, but one thing
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11414	Is the replica ready?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11415	The sequel to the replica, to finish it. Which is why the whole world is going to laugh at us, literally, and this is about the following, Article 15 of this Law, attitude 1 tells me, that is, to be more precise for those who are not more detailed in this provision.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11416	We're all set, Denise. We've been reading it for four years. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11417	Great. The bottom line is, with this member, and with this solution, we're going to bring down the autonomy of the university in this country. Look, it literally says here that the founder may have a majority on the board of directors. Founder in the Federation are cantons, in another entity is an entity, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11418	Well, did Huskić claim anything like that? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11419	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11420	Did Huskić say anything like that?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11421	Huskić argues we don't need to make any corrections, I say this is the opposite
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11422	Well, you said you should throw it away, too, so don't make a replica of something that's abstract. Everyone's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11423	Mr. Belkić, I argue, Mr. Huskić has argued that we do not need to make any corrections, I would like to say that there are a bunch of reasons why we must make adjustments in this law. If we adopt the law in this form, we will bring down the autonomy of the university. And I can very well prove that we're going to bring her down. But here, I respect this, too, is the essence of the replica, so that we need very much a change of this law and it wouldn't be a good idea to nail this thing today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11424	Okay. Okay. We still have Mr. Raguž and Mr. Kalabić reported. Here you go, Mr. Raguž. And I beg you, is there anyone else who is? Thank you, so we have Raguž. And you have a line, I'm sorry. A little, Martina, please. Here, give up Adem, thank you very much, Ademe. Here you go, Martina.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11425	Well, here, Mr. Chairman, esteeming, meaning, the importance of the law, but also the time we've all spent together, I'm going to say very briefly, given that I've renewed the amendments, I think it's time to say a few words. 76 What I would say from this whole debate is that, therefore, this country doesn't really need a black and white approach anymore, so either things are good or they're catastrophic on the same issue. I personally think that a lot of efforts have been put into this law here, that many people have contributed both as representatives and as representatives of political parties and the ministry and the European Commission and the Office of the High Representative. That's the right thing to say, I think. The second thing is that some parties have a political view of certain solutions in this law, that is another issue. And if we want to speak honestly, we've heard some solutions here today why some amendments are being attacked that have been adopted. I don't think it's fair and fair that they don't comply with European standards, I've heard it here from the position of the SDP. Because the area of education is an essential area of cultural autonomy and European standards, in this sense in Europe and it is a highly decentralised issue and it is not, there are no weaknesses in this law. On the contrary, I think it's the quality of this law. To respect and to share something with the state, we all feel that we can make a contribution. And I don't think there's a problem in the law. The second thing, which is good in this law, is that BiH has received institutions in the area of higher education. She received the role of the Ministry of Civil Affairs in the process, the Rector's Conference, the Information and Recognition Centre and the Agency for the Development of Higher Education... it is a significant shift. The other thing is whether the roles and tasks and mechanisms available are sufficient. I personally believe that they are not and should be strengthened, perhaps at this point, here we all hear, it's not possible anymore, but better this than it isn't. I mean, I want to be perfectly correct about this. Where and why I have renewed the amendments is the fact that we have had the task of home to repair this law on funding issues. Home gave it to us as the Constitutional Commission. And I understand that, where are the responsibilities and where are the elements that are not disputed, but my amendment has gone in the direction, therefore, that we are not questioning the right of the founder in any sentence. The founder's funds are foreseen here. But expected to be included from BiH level, I think it is a reasonable requirement, absolutely reasonable, we cannot take full funding from BiH level at the moment, but we can also be part of a signal to these people who, behold, are calling us to come before them, to take responsibility that this country can invest in both higher education and science. And that would contribute to the quality of this law, and I'm trying to make sure that the public truly accepts these efforts and compromises that have been made, and I think that, if it were, uh, one of the fundamental and key arguments. Because we can't escape the fact that students are up their books daily. Because the founder cannot monitor with his financial capacity, he cannot monitor the needs of wages, programmes, instruments and everything else. So it's compensated somewhere. I suggest that this be compensated by the responsibility of this state, nothing more, and in one part we do not now radically change but in one part. And I can't see, therefore, that it puts anyone in question in this country. On the contrary, it gives everyone a chance, especially that we have provided financial instruments with indirect taxation, the VAT system, the single account, the budget that is growing every year, and that is one evolutionary process, if something was already in Dayton we see for 12 years that it is not, that it is no longer so. Why don't you put that mechanism into operation? 77 Here, er, so, I wanted to make it clear, I am not against the law, but I think this provision gives the fullness of the law and with the repairs of the role of the Agency in terms of strengthening its role, I think we would, however, get. And now this is what I'm saying to Mr Lagumdžija, so he wasn't there, so I apologize to others, so that dimension that institutions decide by something more demanding is not an anti-European standard. Because the area of education is also an important issue for the cultural, individual and the people. The question is, therefore, the quality of the solution I was talking about, and I don't think that's the weakness of the law, I was going to say, but, uh, as some here wanted to present, I can be of extra quality that we are developing in this country institutions that will be able to operate in the whole area and that will be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11426	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Here, instead of Mr. Kalabić, Mr. Živković signed up and this is how we conclude the debate in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11427	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members. For a long time, I would say, for too long, the Law on Higher Education has been on the agenda in BiH, at all instances. For a long time, there is also a congregation procedure here and ultimately MPs here in Parliament need to determine themselves according to this law that puts a lot of effort into it, and I would not say that the Council of Ministers, especially not the Ministry of Civil Affairs, has shown no desire and will and has done much work to get to this bill that is before us. Of course it would be a lot easier for us MPs who aren't in this matter to have, not just one organization, and you've all gotten into your student benches... The University of Mostar where we had a unique opinion of all BiH students about this law. It would be much easier for us, as MPs, if from the scientific and professional public, what Professor Dokić and Professor Lagumdžija said, we sat together in BiH and delivered a unique opinion here regarding the Law. We MPs would be much easier to decide today about this law. However, it is obvious that BiH cannot agree on this and that the BiH lawmakers have been left with what the citizens of BiH have given us, which is to end a reform of higher education which is one of the conditions of BiH's entry into the EU through the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It is to us, then, that responsibility under the same responsibility Mr. Švarc Šiling spoke this morning, and therefore we must not treat this law as a matter of principle all or nothing. It's true that he's not the best, and it's true that he needs repairs, but in order to fix something, you have to bring it in first. And that is why I call on all MPs here to accept this law in our first reading, to consider whether we should, and I suggest that we consider it in the second reading, and then I will propose only two collective amendments concerning 78 technical repairs regarding the dates set out in the report of the Constitutional Commission. I hope that I will get a word after the MP's statement regarding the First Reading Law to clarify these technical repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11428	Thank you, Mr. Živković. The discussion, is it, Mr. Lagumdžija, a replica. Replica, here you go, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11429	It would be funny if it wasn't pathetic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11430	And what's this about, I don't get it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11431	About these dumps from here. That's what this is about, this is mine, mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11432	I'm asking you to refrain.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11433	My claim: it would be funny if it wasn't pathetic to refer, Mr. Belkić, to the discards that are from the neighborhood, it wasn't addressed to you, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11434	I'm asking you to refrain from throwing. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11435	Thank you very much. Since both Mr. Raguž and Mr. Živković directly mentioned me and, in a way, uh, tried to clarify some of the things I said, I have to admit that they didn't mention me, everything would be clear to me. But now that they've tried to make something clear to me, let me see that they too have dilemmas about what I actually wanted. To be very clear, I am against a law like this that came before us with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission because he did not solve the basic homework that this Parliament gave 3 months ago, which is to arrange financing, not at all edit, no state funding, no it, it must know the people who will be subject to this law, that this law has not been settled financing. The students, the academic community and the public must know that this law has not been settled. Then the questions of accreditation 79
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11436	A little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11437	In an appropriate manner
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11438	It's true we heard all this, but it's not burned again.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11439	So it wasn't settled, and I'm saying it because some colleagues, Mr. Belkić, asked me well on purpose – how will you endure that you are the only one against this? And now, with the ruling coalition, the SDS has stopped. So they're already warning me that I'm going to have a hard time explaining to the public why we're against it. So that's why I want to say very clearly, we're against this, and that's why we suggested this conclusion that I would ask you to make your point. I'd like to make a statement about that conclusion. And naturally, if you would adopt this, I would like to be denied in September.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11440	Did you doubt that I would put that conclusion aside?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11441	It's one thing to put it on, one thing to show any good will to get with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11442	We'll show you
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11443	In conclusion, he does something to get us to have a better law and a change in the situation on the ground. I'm afraid this is not what we're going to have, and so in advance I want to say, you don't have to convince me of something that's perfectly clear to me, which is that you, by this law, are full of the word compromise, you haven't solved what this law is made of.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11444	Thank you. We have an incorrect quote. Mr. Živković and another, Mr. Novaković, and there's more.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11445	You see, Mr. Lagumdžija, when you started talking, you said you were speaking as a professor so you could talk as an MP afterwards and as a representative of your party. I only focused on the part that you spoke as a professor. And I asked and realized that it would be much easier for us MPs here to determine under this law 80 that you, as a professor, and other professors in BiH, have a unique opinion about this law. That's exactly the opinion we could read and say, this is the opinion of the professional public in BiH, you have no opinion. For this reason I read you, I did not comment on what you spoke as an MP and what you spoke as a representative of the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11446	Replica, is it a replica, is it a replica? Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11447	Yeah. Mr. Živković, you obviously don't understand the nature of the academic community. The academic community can't have a single opinion on one of the things, there's no unique opinion on what a law looks like, there can be one majority dominant opinion in the academic community. But by definition, the academic community is an academic community of free people in which there is no uniqueness in the opinion, as there may be in some political parties in the vote. So also in, even in the party from which I come there is a party position, but you're on the wrong track if you're looking for an academic community in such a capital matter to try to have a unique opinion, then it would deny its nature as an academic community. But it's also a topic that comes out of the sheep's eye of this law so we can move on, give one lecture to each other as much as you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11448	Here it goes, you don't have to sit, here's Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11449	Of course, you start your discussion always with a lecture about someone else that needs to know or not to know. I ask you: do you have any opinion from the academic community in BiH, show the MPs any opinion, let it be minority, majority, either way, least of all, agreement, opinion. Do you have any opinion? Give it to me, please, let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11450	Thank you, Mr. Novaković, a replica. Let's get some rest? Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11451	I had, uh, an incorrect quote. Namely, a colleague of Lagumdžija has a problem hearing what people don't say and not hearing what they say. I didn't say the SDS would vote on this law. So, I didn't say that, but I made comments and the good side of the law and told 81 that after his discussion I had changed into a few opinions about this law. Here and now I'm sure it wasn't his discussion to vote against.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11452	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11453	I thank Mr. Novaković, I think we'll end it. I have the opinion of some
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11454	Don't be sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11455	Certain parts of the academic community, Mr. Živković and therefore, there are, there are opinions, debates were held at the university's senates. A debate was held here in Parliament, established by the Constitutional Commission and these are all opinions coming from the academic community, they are, they exist. That's one thing, and the other, Mr. Novaković, you've only confirmed with your discussion what you, uh, tried to deny, you'll just vote along with the ruling parties, and it's really moving to listen to your argument that you defend the position of the Party for BiH and the SDA, but it's good, let's agree on anything, even if it's not a big deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11456	All right, all right. Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Kalabić, you've been enlisted, but, behold, Mr. Živković has used his time, but here, if you like, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11457	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, given that, I think, however, everything is said today, I am only disappointed that we spent time on empty discussions and we from the SNSD Club, given that we are fully clearly reformed and that we intended to do a constructive job much earlier and much earlier today, and that is to adopt this law that we consider to be a good thing for BiH at this point. I think I should remind everyone that this morning in this House the High Representative gave a speech at a special session and that the High Representative asked and said his position that it would be a great pleasure for him to adopt the law today. Whoever thinks the High Representative doesn't know what he's saying and who thinks there's nothing behind the High Representative's sentences, has the right to think so, but he should just be principled so that in all attitudes whenever he mentions the international community's views, he should think the same thing. Some people are full of the international community's views, she's asking us to do this, she's asking us to do that. Today, when the visok Representative made clear his position and his desire to do him 82 large favors, and when he tells him, then to the International Community, it is also an attitude, and then someone should respect it. But democracy is a miracle, it allows for various variations, which is why it is and is called democracy, and that is why it is defined that one of this law, when we do not want to adopt it at one point, poses a great danger to the state, and then the next day after we are close to adopting, a minority, a terrorist act against the state if adopted. But democracy suffers too, and it's someone's right, that's what it is. I think that the SNSD has made a significant contribution, which is why I am not today because I have taken part in the work of the Constitutional Commission in many places said what we had, tried to explain the amendments, and I do not know about all these possible discussions that I personally consider to be a good solution for BiH and that the example and way of working on this law is an example of how BiH should work in other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11458	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. I have Mr. Sefer Halilović reported here. Did I get a good look? You're giving up? Thank you. Please, therefore, I am concluding the debate and during the debate Mr. Lagumdžija has delivered to me here a proposal for a conclusion which, of course, was confirmed by Mr. Križanović, Mr. Bećirović, not to miss. But I don't know how now, in which way, business, Mr. Lagumdžija, to realize and to adopt this conclusion. So, you are proposing the following, if I am well – it is up to the Council of Ministers to, on the basis of today's debates, whether, until now, the debates come out with a consolidated Bill Proposal that will be given in parliamentary procedure by emergency procedure. Does that mean we're breaking this procedure now? Please. Yeah. Your proposal for a conclusion cannot delay the vote on the law in the first reading. How can she do that? [[Common discussion]] Mr. Džaferović, I don't think the Rules of Procedure, here, Branka, please, one interpretation. I do not think the Rules of Procedure at this stage, at the stage of the plea, in the first reading, gives us the opportunity to vote on this kind of conclusion that interrupts the parliamentary procedure. _________(?) He's got a member of 94, allows, if he points to new knowledge... 83
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11463	So the vote is obviously not registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11464	You're asking for a re-election. So say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11465	Absolutely, clearly. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11466	Please, just a little attention, so get ready to vote. We can vote now. Vote, go ahead. Prepare the list of Lagumji, uh, not to ask. In four copies, did you list those students? So, with 22 votes for, 5 against, 9 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I find this law passed in the first reading. Please, given this result, I suggest we state whether or not to go to another vote, or to another reading. Please prepare, prepare for the vote. So we're voting on whether we should go to another reading. Vote now. We have amendments. With 26 votes to, six against, four abstentions, enough entity majority. We decided to go to another reading today. So we now have a discussion in the second reading. It's an amendment debate. Let me remind you, within the legal period and by the procedure envisaged, Mr. Šefik Džaferović has tabled, or reiterated, an amendment that has been tabled by the amendment that slows down Amendment XI (11) of the Constitutional Commission and Mr. Raguž has submitted, or repeated, two amendments to what this third one is, it is practically understood if these two were adopted to move the rest. So, I'm opening a debate on the amendments. Here you go, sir. Is anyone picking up? Here you go, proposed amendments, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11467	Well, here I am, earlier in this debate on the principles of the Law, explaining my amendments, not to repeat, I believe, therefore, that it is of interest that there is space, that there are mechanisms that also from the BiH budget, part of BiH is set aside for higher education and science in BiH and that this would significantly improve the quality of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11468	Thank you. Here's Mr. Živković announced a little while ago that there is a need for technical amendments, therefore, related to deadlines in an earlier version of the Law that are now, uh, practically unusable. Here you go, Mr. Živković. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11469	Thank you, Chairman. You can follow the report of the Constitutional Commission that the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education in BiH is proposed amendments to Articles 61 and 65 with specific terms: "01.10. and the beginning of 2006, the 2007 academic year is amended as follows: ‘in a period of one year from the date of entry into force of this Act’. Practically in the Constitutional Commission, these terms have been rephrased into this term. Accordingly, Articles 20 and 59 would need those same terms to be translated into a conclusion, i.e. an amendment adopted on the Constitutional Commission. So in Article 20. The proposal for a law, in paragraph 2, reads as follows: ‘since 01 October 2006’, should be amended as follows: ‘a year after the entry into force of this Act’. In that same attitude, the words “from the date of entry into force of this Act until 30 September 2006” should be changed to the words: “in a year from the date of entry into force of this Law”. Furthermore, in Article 59, the words which read as follows: ‘at the latest since the 2006/2007 school year’ should be amended as follows: ‘in a period of one year from the date of its entry into force’. So these are technically only amendments that are in line with what the Constitutional Commission has already adopted in its own and is in its Report. And I'd like to ask, once I've taken my word, all the others who have proposed amendments to give up those amendments. The SNSD, as he said, will propose a law that has been adopted by the Constitutional Legal Commission. We could have the same way that the amendments that didn't pass in the Constitutional Commission, which we suggested we defend here again, but we wanted this atmosphere to be favourable to the adoption of this law today, not to be further complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11470	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković signed up, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11471	Mr. Chairman, let me just hold a brief consultation with Mr. Lagumdžija about the way we vote. We of the SDS, in fact, are not clear, so we could give instructions about the vote on amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11472	Thank you. Me, are you going to do it now or are you going to do it later? Please, here, so I'm closing the debate. 86 Šefik Džaferović, please, Šefik.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11473	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So, I'd like to.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11474	May I have your attention, please, let me have a word with you?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11475	So, Mr Živković rightly pointed out the provision of Articles 20, Article 2 and Article 59, it seems to me that, in the 95th text of the Higher Education Act, I would ask, since these are important things that a representative of the Ministry, or the Minister of Civil Affairs, come out for a payphone and tell us, this, whether this fits into this concept as we have said – a year after the law came into force, or those two years when accreditation should be carried out. So there aren't any disturbances in the deadlines, uh, in accordance with this, this needs to be fixed, so this in the law can't stay this way. I'm just asking if what Mr. Živković suggested, since I couldn't follow it all the way, uh, I don't have the text on me here, you probably talked to him in the meantime, whether, by heart, he did it by heart, uh, just to tell me if it's consistent and give us that paper that we have him here, so we know, uh, or read it once more, so just that, if it's not a problem, there. Please, Mr. Živković, only if you do not have a problem, so Article 20, item 2 says - with the aim of promoting and ensuring the integration of academic, financial and spatial planning and development of the institution, then says the text from 01 October 2006, read to us a complete member now with an integrated amendment team, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11476	I think it would be the correct thing to do, Šefik, to suggest that the practically resolute ministry that is under way says if that's what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11477	Okay. I'm satisfied. That's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11478	Mr. Nović, Mrs. Hadžagić, say something. Well, get out, and tell us it is, the minister can tell us. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11479	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure, here, to welcome you on behalf of the Ministry and in my personal capacity and to express my satisfaction that you adopted such an important document in your first reading. No matter how weak there is in this law there will be and, unfortunately, no law in this country has been passed so far that has not had many, many weaknesses in the beginning. But it seems to me that to buy a baby a bigger bed, you have to have a baby. So, in any case, we're going to have opportunities, probably in the next period, to look at the weaknesses of this law and to be able to intervene in time for this law to get the form that we might want. However, when it comes to these amendments, it is precisely the technical corrections that we have noticed in the Ministry, together with our experts, where we wanted to agree with today's amendments adopted by the Constitutional Legal Commission. So, if these deadlines were to remain, they would be completely opposed to the already adopted constitutional amendments, in, excuse me, amendments in accordance with the Legislative Commission. So we suggest that this technical error simply correct itself and it is fully in line with the intensity of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11480	So the amendments are properly formulated.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11481	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11482	Thank you very much. Here, you heard the minister, I think this is OK. So, we're left to make a statement about the amendments. Let's go this way. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11483	Again, Mr. Džaferović, I apologize for meddling in your idyll, uh, but you didn't get it, you asked a question about Article 20, Section 2, and I didn't hear the answer to that, to your question. Namely, none of your amendments, you have, you're on the committee, you're a member of 61st, I mean, I'm trying to be useful, although I disagree with this law, not to make any further confusion over inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11484	It's about the new one, Zlatko, the amendments to the deadlines that are in the old text. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11485	Well, I know, but we don't have one. Was there an amendment to Article 20, paragraph 2?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11486	I can handle him now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11487	Mr. Živković is now handling it. He's changing dates.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11488	No, whether it has no dates or has a date by the same analogy under which Amendment XI is given to the Constitutional Commission, to Article 50, to Article 61. Is it the same principle? There, is there more? Well, let me get this straight. Don't let it be later.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11489	Well, here you go, clear it up. No, of course not. I totally agree, very useful, very useful. But here, I heard the Minister of Resistance and that was enough for me. The man says he's OK, that he's in line. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11490	So, Mr Živković pointed out that the Komsija had changed deadlines, that the Commission had changed deadlines in Article 61 with its amendments: "The integration of higher education institutions begins on the date of entry into force of this Law, and it will end at the latest in 01.10.2006", because the Law was written before that time and came to Parliament before that time, but it was not adopted, that time had passed. At the same time, however, it was missed, so at the session of the Constitutional Commission, I must say so. In Article 20, and this is what Mr. Živković insists on and insists on, in Article 20 of the Law itself, paragraph 2 states: "with the aim of promoting and ensuring the integration of academic, financial and spatial planning of the development of the institution since the first
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11491	Please, a little patience, this is useful to hear to understand the essence of the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11492	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In October 2006, such a unit will not have legal subjectivity, independent of the institution in the transitional period from the entry into force of this Act until 30 September 2006. 89 years old, colleges that already have legal status etc., etc." and Mr. Živković rightly, therefore, is now intervened here and asks that, in these deadlines here, he therefore says in this above, “in a year” and in this second part: “in a year from the date of entry into force of this Law.” I have, I have looked at the text, as he has done, with the assistant minister I have looked at it, we have heard the minister and it has been done correctly in the amendment, I suggest that his amendment be accepted, so this amendment to Article 20. And when it comes to Article 59, the original text states: “High-school institutions begin to adapt their studies to this Law on the date of its entry into force, and the organisation of studies will begin to implement according to the provisions of this Act no later than 2006/2007,” it now states: “in a period of one year from the date of entry into force of this Law.” And that's what Mr. Živković proposes to fix, so I suggest that Mr. Živković's amendment, Mr. Živković, be accepted. We're at a session of the Constitutional Commission and now it has nothing to do with this story, intervened on another deadline. That's the one in article 62 where the 4-year-old is down to 2 years, on a proposal from the ministry, we did it in the Constitutional Commission. If we accept, therefore, Mr. Živković's amendments, then we will have a consistent text of the law when, when it comes to deadlines and here I, therefore, propose, as an MP, that the amendment, amendments and one and other Mr. Živković, who are represented by the speaker and if you haven't seen them, accept them. Here, so much for clarification, that's why I went there and there wasn't any idyll, there's no idyll here, but here's who wants to deal with this idyllic, here's the buyrum, brother, let's do who wants to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11493	Thank you very much, Mr. Džaferović. So, let's get going, so we've concluded the debate, we're going to go to the amendment statement. Let us first declare the amendment of Mr. Šefik Džaferović, who, with his amendment, challenges Amendment XI of the Constitutional Commission and so that the text of the amendment is completely deleted and the text of the bill is restored. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. With 11 votes in, 17 against. The amendment didn't receive support. Let's get to the amendments. So why, Mr. Lagumdžija? You want us to vote, raise our hands. So why, Jozo, wouldn't be a problem, any minute now, uh, this is a deliberate obstruction of this Parliament's work. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11494	If it can be repeated, I can't believe the BiH Party was against this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11495	I voted against it. Is it okay now?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11496	Well, then, nothing, then it's okay, no, no, I was leaving.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11497	Thank you. I was against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11498	No, it's okay, then listing please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11499	Can I have a listing? Mr. Križanović, is he all right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11500	I couldn't believe you'd be
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11501	Is it, Mr. Križanović, okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11502	(no microphone turned on)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11503	Why don't you understand why he's asking? Don't you know the man? Let's go to Mr. Raguž's amendment. Please prepare to vote. Amendment and Mr. Raguž, you have it, there's no need to read it. Vote now. So nine votes to, 22 against, five abstentions. The amendment and Mr. Martin Raguž didn't get support. We're going to Amendment II to Mr. Martin Raguž. Please prepare to vote. 91 Vote now. We're voting on amandman ii of gospodin Raguž. With nine votes against 20, four abstentions. Amendment II to Mr. Raguž didn't get the support he needed either. We're moving on to Mr. Živković's amendments, we're going to the Amendment and, if necessary, for the record, to read it. There's no need, is there, thank you very much. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on the amandman and Mr. Živković. Vote now. With 31 votes for, 1 against, 4 abstentions, enough entity majority. I understand that Mr. amandman i gospodin Živković have received support. We're going to Amendment II, please prepare for the vote. Vote now. Amendment II to Mr. Živković. With 29 votes to, 2 against, 4 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I also find that Amendment II of Mr. Živković has received the necessary majority. We are left to declare the Law on Higher Education in Second Reading, including these two adopted amendments. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 22 votes for, 5 against, 8 abstentions, enough entity majority. I agree that we have passed the Law on Higher Education in BiH. Thank you very much. [[Common discussion]] We're crossing, please, we're moving on, we're moving to point nine, we're moving to point nine. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11506	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs. Here today we are considering another law from a set of these laws that are related to the education system and we are talking about this Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education. I have to ask again, if I have anyone to ask from the Council of Ministers' representative, I don't think there's a single minister presently. Whether or not
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11507	The minister vratiti be back.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11508	He'll be back. He's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11509	And there's an assistant minister, sitting there.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11510	Does anyone in the BiH Council of Ministers think that this country should first have a state-level objective of the education system, to know, therefore, what its objectives are, to adopt some strategic documents in the education system, and after that, as it is done, whether, in all normal states, it is to start adopting certain laws that result from what should be done forward. We are all witnessing that in BiH we have a fully fragmented education system and if anything is so dangerous for the future of BiH, then it is exactly the kind of education system we have. And we have a ghetto education system in many parts of BiH. The only country in Europe that has examples of two schools operating under one roof, an example of the South African apartheid, is this one of ours. And I think that here, in this section of the Agency's tasks, setting standards, etc., the development of a common core should certainly be built on that one of the tasks of this Agency to provide assistance in the development of multicultural education and to prevent the segregation education system in this country. Thank you. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11511	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Is there any further discussion? Are there any reports? Mr. Zorić, an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11512	This is not true, what Mr. Bećirović says is that there is no place in the world that under one roof there are more schools, actually, he said two. I worked at the Central School Centre in the Republic of Croatia, in Imotsko, where it is under one roof of 4 schools.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11513	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11514	I don't know, really, over such a sad fact that there is a fact in this country, that there is a man who can laugh at such a fact, and that is indeed a sad fact. And this fact, while fellow Zorić is trying to cast this sad fact out to one general laugh, is even sadder than this first, that in BiH in specific cities there are....that children are divided by national basis, that they are divided and if we should specify cities where they are and specifically etc. We can do that part, but it doesn't serve this country either. But all those kids in the West go to school together, hang out together, school together, etc., and these same kids are being prevented here, while at the same time those responsible for having such a segregation education system, they don't mind sitting in the Council of Ministers, in parliaments, traveling around the world together, and sharing these kids and destroying this country's future, and that's not funny at all, it's sad and sad for this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11515	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Mr. Zorić, what about you? Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11516	It is. I didn't laugh at all, I said it seriously, and you can check it out, see, it's not far in the workbook that I did, I even think even in the workbook that they have two schools of those I mentioned. And what you're talking about, you're talking about, you don't mind school in English in BiH, you're bothered by the school in the Croatian language in BiH. You're talking about segregation, you didn't think about school in English, English or American, but you thought about other schools. What are you talking about here? This is about the law, the agency, and you're talking about schools. I've corrected your incorrect quote because it's not true. You said that nowhere in the world exists under one roof of more schools, except South Africa 94 republics. I didn't do anything else here but say you were wrong. And you're wrong. And now in the same building, so where I worked there are under one roof of four schools.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11517	Thank you. Mr. Bećirović. These are all replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11518	I heard two or three allegations from Mr. Zorić, of which I don't know where he found them as an inspiration to replicate to me. I have not mentioned any Bosniaks, Serbian or Croatian schools here for a moment, nor have I told him that he laughed in person, etc., where you, Mr Zorić, recognized yourself in all this, it is really not clear to me. I'm just saying what the facts are, and the facts are that there are such examples in this country that I was talking about where, unfortunately, ordinary children who are supposed to lead this country tomorrow are divided
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11519	We all know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11520	It's good to know, and it's even better if we don't do something like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11521	Here you go, Mr. Zorić, were you answering? Until it's over.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11522	Well, I'm, uh, if he looks at fellow Bećirović's stenogram, then he'll see that he said it's worse than the laughter of some MPs, what I said. That's what I've been replicating you for the second time. You have to be careful what you say. You said it was even worse than laughing what I said, and I just corrected your incorrect quote, that there are no two in the world, and I say there are, twice, two under one roof. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11523	Okay, thank you. Here, they reported on the replica and Mr Ahmetović and Mr Džaferović. And the discussion, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11524	It's not a replica, but I'd like to join this whole story Mr. Bećirović told. So, and I think this Parliament on such serious matters as the case in BiH, that within a building, let's say, that children are separated on a national basis and I don't think that this Parliament is where we should talk ironically and laugh, etc., and I think that if we don't have a serious debate, we need to break it up. Thank you very much. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11525	That's right, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović. But let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11526	Of course. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, two schools under one roof, namely, of course, under what we have today in BiH, unfortunately, are a serious problem of the Bosnian Herzegovina society and the Bosnian Herzegovina state, and it is due to obstruction and non-implementation of the Framework Law on basic and secondary education and with this phenomenon, therefore, with segregation, domination on this national basis, it should, therefore, stop and simply cannot withstand any standards. It's just not normal, and in that, we have to fight, so I, too, think that's supposed to be our attitude. The law we have before us, which is called the Law on Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education Agency, should establish some kind of state regulator in the field of pre-school, primary and secondary education and help resolve, among other things, this issue which, here, has been discussed here in Parliament. I would, therefore, draw particular attention to the part of this third law relating to the competence of the Agency which speaks of this agency being responsible for establishing a standard of knowledge, assessing the results achieved and developing a common core of curricula and programmes in pre-school, primary and secondary education, which is, in fact, a concept of the common core and specific classes in this type of education in BiH according to the laws that we have adopted for other professional tasks in the field of knowledge standards and quality assessment, which are defined by specific laws and other regulations. The Constitutional Commission has supported, therefore, the text of this law, adopted several amendments, namely 7 amendments have been adopted, and I am obliged to draw your attention, some of these amendments are legal-technical, but some amendments are also essential. So it's adopted, for example. Amendment concerning the head office of the Agency itself. You see, we will have three state institutions, three state agencies when education is in BiH. It's the Agency for Higher Education Accreditation, we're going to have the Information and Recognition Centre, it's this Center for the Prostrification of diploma, recognition of diploma, and we're going to have, of course, this State Agency for Pre-school, Primary and Secondary Education. Since the Law on Higher Education, which we just adopted, did not settle the issue of the headquarters of these two institutions that are formed by that law, but was left to the government, or whoever implements the law, and this law provided for the seat, then, as the Constitutional Commission, I am obliged to say it here, it is one of the essential changes, whether, through the logic of this Law on Higher Education and then leave this issue, the issue of the headquarters of this agency to be settled by the government. And the second major amendment, which we agreed on in the Constitutional Legal Commission, is Amendment VI that the Director and Deputy Director cannot be from the same constitutive people 96 when it comes to the functioning of this agency. And I suggest that, along with these amendments adopted by the Constitutional Legal Commission, we pass this law and I suggest that we go in both readings today, here, I can suggest it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11527	Thank you very much, Mr. Džaferović. Any further reports? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to vote on the law in the first place, please? Please prepare to vote in the first reading. Vote now. We didn't make it, we have to do it again, so I know I'm gonna have to. Well, I will, of course. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 23 votes against, 4 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority, I find that we have passed the Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education in First Reading. Here, in the initiative, in some way and based on the mood that it is, here I suggest that we now make clear whether we will plead, or whether we will conduct a debate on the Law in the second reading, or whether we will declare ourselves to the Law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 23 votes for, 6 against, 3 abstentions, enough entity majority we have decided to discuss the Law and in the second reading, or to declare the Law in the second reading. There's practically no amendment. I don't see the need for any discussion, and I suggest we approach the vote immediately in the second reading on the law. Prepare to vote, of course, if no one minds. Vote now. With 24 votes against, 4 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority, I find that we have passed the Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education. Thank you very much. 97 We move to point 10. Ad.10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act And this bill was submitted on September 8th. At the 4th session, no application for procedure was adopted in the ordinary procedure. She was in charge of ustavnopravni law. The Constitutional Law Report was delivered to us on May 31st. The Commission, as you have seen from the report, found that there were no amendments and supported the bill. Today we are discussing the law in the first reading. So, I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act in the first reading. Are there any reports of discussion? If he doesn't, I'm closing the argument. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. So we vote in the first reading. So with 18 votes to, against 0, abstention 13, we don't have the required majority. This bill is going to be agreed upon. So we move to point, next point, point 11. Ad.11. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Administrative Tax Act, first reading
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11530	Chairman, I'd like to do a business intervention. In fact, Article 68 states that the BiH presidency members can, and members of the Council of Ministers 98 BiH have the right and the duty to participate in the House's meetings. And two, it is said, in the event of the motionor's absence from the House's session, the House may decide that the debate should be conducted without the applicant's presence. So, I didn't want to trouble you before this business provision, but I think it would be good, really, to get home's work serious once. So, this is not about the need for a ministerial assistant to be present, it is about members of the Council of Ministers as legislators of certain laws. I, according to this, am not to say this for free, here I am asking that the House plead whether today we will argue without the presence of the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11531	Let me get this off the agenda, shall I, Jozo? Maybe we shouldn't do anything, best. Here, Mr. Križanović asks that, bearing in mind that we do not have the Council of Ministers' presence, to make clear that we will continue to discuss laws for which there are no proposings. Excellent, Mr. Križanović, please. Here, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11532	I understand the demands of the MPs to be present at the session, or, if they cannot, deputies and assistants in relation to the agenda points. And they've been to all the points of the agenda so far. The law that is currently before us, these people were on two committees, the Constitutional Commission, the Finance Commission and the budget. No Niko, in connection with an explanation of the bill by the MPs, has had one and the other, has unanimously adopted this law. This law has only one item of the agenda, or one point of change and addition, and so far no one has caused any problem with this. I think it is unnecessary for this item of the agenda and for such an amendment to the law, after all that has gone through the commission, to seek and think that the Council of Ministers must be present. And I don't think this is the Rules of Procedure, to say, broken, and there's no need for the House to declare itself about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11533	Please, I agree, I think we should plead. So, Mr. Križanović asks that this home be declared whether it will continue to work and decide on a law for which we do not have the presence of a promoter. Please prepare to vote. So, the House decides whether it will continue to operate on this agenda point, so, the Administrative Tax Act, because we don't have a proposing. So, who's in favour of continuing to work without the promoter present? 99 Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 19 votes in favour of, 10 against, 2 abstentions, the enough entity majority, Dom decided to continue working without a proposing. So we're going back to the debate. I said the opening notes. We're on our first reading. So, please, I'm opening a debate in my first reading. What is it now? Jozo, did you get that?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11534	I answered the line, but you wouldn't let me. My colleagues to Živković, look out, I've invited myself to the Rules of Procedure and nothing further.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11535	I followed the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11536	I don't care, I don't care what kind of explanation it was, what was on the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11537	I followed the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11538	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11539	Please. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11540	I have received the report and the Constitutional Commission and the Committee on Finance and Budget and here I want to conclude something about this law. In fact, when I received opinions from those two committees, I read in one article that it was the Law on Amendments to the Law on Administrative Taxes, and in the other I read about administrative fees. What am I saying? I would also like to publicly commend the secretary of this Finance and Budget Committee, who has worked hard and written an opinion in all three languages. That same secretary is the Secretary of the Defence and Security Committee, and we always get it neatly. Some take their right to do so only in their own language. I don't think that's right. Language use is a constitutional category, and I would like to get all the other opinions and reports of the commission in and in my own language, here. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11541	Okay, thank you. But let us, however, return, therefore, to the scale of things. It's okay, I mean, it's okay, it's okay. Here's what I got, it says fees, so it's okay. Satisfied. So, please, are there any further requests to discuss this law? If not, please prepare to vote in the first reading. Vote now. 28 for, against, nothing, 6 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, and this bill on amending the Law on Administrative Taxes, we adopted fees in the first reading. So it's obvious that there are conditions for,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11542	We can't, new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11543	And the new Rules of Procedure, you see, I really do pray, has an initiative, the idea that as soon as possible this Rules of Procedure is thoroughly processed and completely changed. We've produced this well. Okay, so we can't go to another reading, but this Rules of Procedure is the product of some people sitting here, or former colleagues and current ones, etc. We're going to point 14, yes, but I wasn't on the expert team. Let's go to point 14. Ad.14. Consideration of Denis Bećrović's initiative from the 9th session of the House held on 23.05. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. So, after the debate, the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives voted mostly with 7 votes in favour, and 1 abstention, adopted the conclusion, MP Denis Bećirović's initiative is justified. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is proposed to adopt the initiative. So here, I am obliged to only two – three sentences more to say, that after, I hope that we will support this initiative, adopt, that we have one obligation to communicate with the local community in Trebinj and see how and how this initiative is implemented and implemented. In fact, we must respect the attitudes and the local communities on this matter, if the proposer, of course, agrees. Yeah, that's what it says after all. So, please, can we plead? Is there a need for a debate? Can we make a statement about this initiative? 101 Please prepare for the vote. So, who is for this initiative, keeping this report in mind? Vote now. With 29 votes in favour, without against, five abstentions, enough entity majority, a parliamentary initiative has been adopted, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives should task the Council of Ministers in co-operation with the competent authorities of the Trebinje municipality financially assists the construction of Srdjan Aleksic's monument in Trebinj. Thank you. We're going to the next point, so this point 12 we've downloaded, confirming the decision on appointments, the point, the last point, so, Ad.15. We have agreement on ratification under e) the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages – Strasbourg, 5th of November 1992, f) the Convention to Unite Certain Regulations in International Air Traffic, g) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Co-operation and Control of the Crossing of the Border, h) the Interim Free Trade Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Mission of the Temporary Administration of the United Nations in Kosovo
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11546	We didn't, we didn't win.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11547	So, unfortunately under a) we have not yet received the opinion of the committee in charge, so I am talking about the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages. I think we can do that, if we have any of the members of the Commission here in particular, okay. So, we see, here you go, Mr. Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11548	Gentlemen, MPs, just a brief clarification. Given that we in the work of the Foreign Affairs Committee two months ago, at one of the previous sessions, 102 concluded that we would not consider those points of the agenda and those materials that were not followed by representatives of the resolution ministry. For this charter, the resolute ministry is the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, we had no representative of the ministry. For the other two points we are, with, of course, the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, we have not defined ourselves positively, nor negatively, although the brief debate we opened was visible that no one disputed the granting of consent and the decision to ratify the European Charter, given the fact that it was a document since 1992 and that it was a post-accession condition for BiH by the Council of Europe. Here, on behalf of this committee, I leave it to us to consider whether we should go over this fact that no one has been present and settle it today or leave it for the next session. Let this be the decision of this House, and here we have heard earlier that the Rules of Procedure on the presence of representatives of the Council of Ministers or any resolution ministry is such that it is not imperative that someone be present at the House's meeting. We wanted in the work of the Foreign Affairs Committee to achieve that, however, we have a representative of the ministry, and it doesn't have to be a minister and not even a deputy, it can be anyone. Unfortunately, two days ago, we had no one from this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11549	Here, I thank Mr. Matić. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not allow us, it is mandatory to have the opinion of the resolution ministry so that this point a) we do not have the opinion of the committee responsible who could not give an opinion because of the lack of presence, this, the resolution ministry and we do not have a binding document that binds us today. Unfortunately, this point a) will have to be removed. I was hoping we'd have something in the meantime. And for this European Charter, on many occasions, we were reminded, asked, etc. It's very important. Well, Parliament can decide anything, Šefik, but here it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so we'll take it off, and we'll do it on July 4th. We have, we have this ratification for points b, c and e. Do we have any objections, questions, dilemmas? So, b, c, e and d. Can we get in the package? Here, let's hear it, here, if we can't go one by one, all, how can we. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11550	Nothing. You asked if we could in the package, I said that, uh, we can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-13-0.u11551	Well, then let's be clear whether we vote in the package or not. Let's go one by one, obviously it's better that, which is for sure, it's safe. So let's go to the press on the document - the Convention for the Uniting of Certain Regulations in International Air Traffic Please prepare for the vote. 103 vote now. With 34 votes in favour, against nothing, suzdržati, nothing to enough entity majority, I find that we have given consent to ratifying the Convention to unify certain regulations in international air traffic. We are going to the document under c) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the co-operation and supervision of the border crossing Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. I hope you've prepared well for this one, too. So, with 35 for, v, nothing, suzdržati, nothing, enough entity majority, we have given consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the co-operation and control of border crossings. And we are left with this document under d) Interim Free Trade Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the United Nations Mission in Kosovo Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. With 27 votes in favour of, 4 against, 3 abstentions, enough entity majority, I agree that we have given consent to ratifying the Interim Free Trade Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the United Nations Mission of Temporary Administration in Kosovo. So this is how we practically exhausted the agenda. Please, please, next session is scheduled for July 4th. We can't keep her sooner. We have delegations to the Council of Europe, travel and travel. Please bring this trip down to a minimum. We spent money. We're all over the place. The session was finished at 5:30.
