ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u11	Honored delegates, your Excellency, distinguished guests, representatives of public information funds, on the basis of Article 2(2), point 2. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the College of the formerly convenes the first, and in this case a constitutive session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask Mr Mikić to take the word and hand over the certificates to the newly elected delegates in front of the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Central Election Commission, newly elected representatives to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, beliefs or certificates. No speech is needed on my part, except for an honest congratulations and a desire to do your mandate as successfully as possible. I would ask you to, once you have received a conviction or a certificate, to come here to the pay phone, I will hand it to you, and when you return to your place, to sign a statement of acceptance or non-acceptance of the mandate because from that moment on, your mandate, in fact, begins. Likewise, you have one piece of information with, in this folder, derived from the Law of Conflict of Interest, so it is not a waste, in any case, to read. Thank you very much. And once again I congratulate you all on your choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u13	Mrs Alma Čolo, gospodin Adem Ibrahimpašić, gospodin Hilmo Neimarlija, gospodin Hazim Rančić, gospodin Sulejman Tihić, gospodin Ilija Filipović, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, gospodin Božo Rajić, gospodin Rudo Vidović, 2 Mr. Branko Zrno, Mr. Mladen Ivanić, Mr. Zoran Koprivica, Mr. Drago Ljubičić, Mrs. Dušanka Majkić and Mr. Slobodan Šaraba
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u14	Mr. President, I thank you once again and use the opportunity to congratulate all elected envoys in the House of Peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u15	I thank Mr. Mikić. I also deeply believe that you have all signed this certificate and, behold, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate and sincerely wish you happy and successful work. Article 2, point 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are scheduled for the first session, until the chairman is elected, to be chaired by the oldest elected delegate as interim chairman. I ask Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić to take over as interim chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, respected delegates, respected chairman, members of the BiH presidency, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Honorable High Representative, Mr Švarc Šiling, representatives of the BiH Embassy and international organisations, respected guests and representatives of public information funds, I warmly welcome you and open a constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Central Election Commission of BiH is in line with Article 2.9, item 1, point 9, and with Article 9.12. BiH's election law confirmed the special election resolutions by Decision No 01-07-1-266406 of 28.11.2006, on the basis of the results of the vote delivered at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and Decision No 0107-174607 of 27.02.2007, and on the results of the vote delivered in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH and assigned mandates to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as follows. Delegates from the Bosniak people; - Alma Čolo, 3 - Adem Ibrahimpašić, - Hilmo Neimarlija, - Hazim Rančić, - Sulejman Tihić. Delegates from the order of the Croatian people; - Ilija Filipović, - Ivo Miro Jović, - Božo Rajić, - Rudo Vidović, - Branko Zrno. Delegates from the order of the Serbian people; - Mladen Ivanić, - Zoran Koprivica, - Drago Lubičić, - Dušanka Majkić and - Slobodan Šaraba. There are 15 delegates present at the session. Of which 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. In accordance with Article 3. The Rules of Procedures of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, delegates take office by giving a solemn statement together. Please, after giving the solemn statement and signing the solemn statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u18	I'm obliging myself,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u19	Obliging
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u20	that I will knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u21	that I will knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u22	respect BiH Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u23	respect BiH Constitution 4
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u24	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u25	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u26	Protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u27	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u28	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u29	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u30	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, for a constitutional session, I suggest the next agenda, one. Founding clubs of the people, 2. The election of the chairman, first and second vice-president of the House of Peoples. [[APLAuz]] I'm opening a debate on a proposal for this agenda. Is anyone picking up? Niko. I'm closing the debate. Who's on the agenda like this? Please vote on the papers, there's something wrong with the technology. Thank you. I find the agenda adopted unanimously. First point, Ad.1. Founding of clubs of the people Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are scheduled to establish three clubs of delegates of the constituent peoples after giving a solemn declaration. Is there a need for a break in order for the clubs of the people to meet and elect the chairman and vice-president? Is there a need? 5 I'm taking a break for 15 minutes. I'll meet you there at 11.20. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] I ask the representatives of the clubs to inform the House about the establishment of the clubs of the people and to introduce us to who the chair of the clubs are, and who the vice presidents of the clubs are. I ask the representative of the Bosniak People's Club to inform the House who has been elected chairman and vice-chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u32	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I am pleased to welcome you (departed from the microphone, quite weakly heard)... the work and also inform you that the Bošnjak klub has chosen as chairman of the Hazim Rančić Club and Deputy Chairman Adem Ibrahimpašić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u33	I thank and realize that the Bosniak Club was founded and that the president of the club Hazim Rančić, and Deputy President Adem Ibrahimpašić, was founded. Thank you very much. I ask the representative of the Croatian People's Club to inform the House who has been elected chairman and vice-chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u34	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests, the Croatian People's Representatives Club took advantage of the break and agreed to the following positions. One, Rudo Vidović was elected as the representative of the Croatian People's Club, and Mr Branko Zrno was elected vice president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u35	Thank you. I find that the Croatian Club was founded and that Mr. Rudo Vidović was elected president and Mr. Branko Zrno as vice president. I ask the president of the Serbian People's Club to inform the House who has been elected chairman and vice-president of the club, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u36	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and fellow delegates, I would like to inform you that Dušanka Majkić was elected for the chairman of the Club and Deputy Deputy Drago Ljubičić. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u37	Thank you very much. I understand that the Club of Serbs was founded and that Mrs Dušanka Majkić was elected as club president and Deputy Drago Ljubičić. Thank you very much. We're done with this first act. Moving to second point, Ad2. Selection of the chairman and vice-president of the House of Speakers I just need to introduce you to part of the Rules of Procedure. So, Article 7. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People are provided for as follows: Article 7.1, following the establishment of the clubs of the people, the House of its members elects one Hrvat, one Bošnjak and one Srbin who will perform the duties of the chairman, first vice-president and second vice-president of the House of Peoples. The chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the House of Representatives. Article 7.2., every club of the people and every delegate has the right to propose candidates for these duties. If there are more candidates for one place, the first vote is for the candidate proposed by the club of the people, and after a list of candidates for each place has been established, it joins the vote. Article 7(3), if no candidate has received the required majority or received the same number of votes, the vote shall be repeated for the two candidates who received the most, i.e. the same number of votes. Article 7.4. The election decision shall be made in a manner determined for the House's decision, by bringing together the presidents of the clubs of the people in the event of an agreement. And if the alignment fails, the vote is repeated. Article 7.5, if no candidate has received the required majority, the vote is repeated as a whole. In view of Article 7.2., the clubs of the people, as well as the delegates, have the right to propose a candidate for the chairman, or vice-chair of the House of Peoples. The candidate for the chairman should first be proposed, and in this case, the seat of the chairman belongs to the candidate in the order of the Croatian people. The first deputy chairman of the Bosniak people is then proposed, and then the second vice-president of the Serb people's order. This order is in accordance with Article 7.1. so that at one point the chairman of both homes would not be of the same constituent people. 7 I would like to remind you that Article 22.1. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House are set out as follows: the chair's seat is automatically rotated without voting, every eight months starting from the election day of the chairman. I ask the chairman of the Croatian People's Club to propose a candidate for the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u39	Thank you very much. The delegations' club from the Croatian people unanimously decided to propose and elect an envoy, Ilija Filipović, as chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Mr. Ilija Filipović, a graduate lawyer, was born on 22 July 1949 in Strošinjci, Municipality of Županja. He graduated from the Pedagogical Academy, language and literature and law studies at the Faculty of Law in Mostar, and passed the judicial exam in Sarajevo. He spent most of his working life on information and housing activities and in the fields of cultural, public, economic and political activity. He is a participant in numerous professional and scientific seminars as well as political agreement between the main political parties and the agreed first package on a possible first phase of changes to the Dayton Constitution. In the past assembly of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, he chaired the Constitutional Legal Commission in the House of Peoples for four years. Suauthor Collections of regulations in the area of constitutional law and state administration and collection of administrative law forms. Married and father of two children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u40	Thank you very much. It's unnecessary to ask if any of the delegates have a proposal because you were unanimous, but I have to ask. Any of the delegates have any other suggestions? There isn't. Who is it for this proposal of the Croatian People's Club to raise your hand? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Restraint? 1 So 14 for, 1 abstention. Mr Ilija Filipović was elected as the chairman of the House of Peoples. I ask the chairman of the Bosniak People's Club to propose a candidate for the first deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u41	8 Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, allow me to congratulate all elected delegates, wish for successful work, long life and good health. I also congratulate the elected members of the Council of Ministers. I wish them successful work, and I hope that, to the satisfaction of everyone, we will cooperate well with the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure of the Bosniak People's Delegates Club unanimously for the chairman, i.e. the deputy chairman of the Bosniak People's Order, proposes delegate Sulejman Tihić. I'll be brief. Let me say it. Mr. Tihić was born on 26.11.1951 in Bosnian Shamac. He's a graduate lawyer. A longtime judge, a lawyer and a prosecutor. He was an MP in the Assembly, so in the National Assembly of the RS, he was a member of the BiH presidency. He is currently a member of this House and is chairman of the Party of Democratic Action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u42	Since this was unanimous, I will ask, however, if any delegates have any suggestions? There isn't. Please, who is for this proposal of the Bosniak People's Club to lift the paper? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? With 14 votes in favour of, 1 abstention, I find that Mr Sulejman Tihić was elected for the first chairman, the first deputy chairman. I ask representatives of the Serbian club or the Serbian People's Club to propose a candidate for the second vice chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u43	In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, the Club of delegates of the Serbian people, is proposing a professor for Dr Mladen Ivanić. I hope I don't have much to talk about. Mr. Ivanic was born in '58. He's a doctor of economic science and comes from a minister's post in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u44	Thank you very much. There's no other proposal from the delegates? There isn't. Please, who is it for this proposal by the Serbian People's Club to elect Mr Ivanic as second vice chairman? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? 1 9 So, with 14 votes in favour, and 1 abstention, Mr Ivanić was elected second chair. Congratulations to the elected delegates and ask them to take their seats. Excuse me, did I say that right? I did. Here you go. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u45	So, it is now time to speak a few words, before the end of a constitutional session which, behold, is finished this way, which, in practice, ended the establishment of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I would therefore like to thank, on my own behalf, for supporting all those who have participated in this very complex procedure of running, proposing and choosing to this day, in order to win the College of the House of Peoples. I would like to ask you to attend the session to be held on Friday, 16 March 2007 starting at 10:45, in this same hall, where Mr. Oli Ren will address. I would also ask you, if you did not, therefore, take a few technical items, photograph yourself, to carry out this obligation in the Library of the Parliamentary Assembly. That's what the secretaries are in charge of, which will show where it is, if any of you don't know it. On the occasion, therefore, the constitution of this second House of the Parliamentary Assembly is not envisaged. I didn't do it for you, but the former Pamuk, therefore, Milojević decided so far to Jukić a little speech and has prepared, together with the tajništvo, a little cocktail where everyone here is invited. I would also ask my colleagues, Mr Tihić and Mr Ivanić, to hold a session of the College after this little cocktail, because the established Parliament is the Parliamentary Assembly, but it is necessary to establish both the bodies of this home and the joint bodies of both homes. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u46	I'd like one suggestion, now at the end of the session, first I'd like to congratulate you, selected members of the College, and I want to say one thing that I think might be useful, and the same is technical. In order for the House of Peoples to successfully perform its function given to it by the Constitution, it is necessary to form three permanent and six joint committees with the House of Representatives in addition to the constitutional session. 10 Since a large number of materials have arrived and it is necessary to work very quickly, I am free to propose that the first regular session of the House of Peoples, which would be selected by three permanent and six joint committees, be held on Friday at 14.00 p.m. I think that would be very useful, because right after that, we can schedule our first sessions and form our committees and end up with this part that's protocold, so that we can work successfully. In the end, the House of Representatives is waiting for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-14-0.u47	I thank you for such constructive suggestions. We've already spoken in that sense. So that's why I suggested that after this constitutive session, a session of the College of this House is held, where the first task is to establish permanent bodies of the House of Peoples, and we know that tomorrow the 5th session of the House of Representatives, that a bunch of material, therefore, has passed the Procedural House of Representatives and that, therefore, which we have the same legislative capacity in this House, is expected to have a very, very big job. Thank you for your suggestions. The college will take care of that. I am concluding the work of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session was completed at 12:50 p.m.
