ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9288	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 5th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So, once again, I welcome you all together, I welcome guests, representatives of public information funds. Short notice, in preparation for this session, we held on 7 March a session of the Colleges in an extended composition on which we agreed on a draft agenda that you received with the material for the session. We have already notified you of a possible agenda by one act, so that you may have the opportunity to prepare and provide the relevant materials that the services provided neatly. You got most of the material. A small number of materials that are very short and can be introduced very quickly, you get on your benches. We have also provided you with one piece of information regarding the reduction of deadlines for considering the Bill on the Budget of BiH institutions in order to try how much it is possible to cancel this huge delay when it comes to adopting the budget. Here's another question we have today, so to speak, one job to do before we discuss the agenda proposal. In fact, it is about giving a solemn statement from the new MPs. We have been informed from the BiH Election Commission that the mandate of MPs has been assigned to Mr Velimir Jukić and Mr Slavko Matić as the next qualified candidates from the HDZ list Croatia coalition HMZ instead of Dragan Vrankić and Borjana Krišto, whose mandate has ceased due to his departure to another duty. I, of course, invited new MPs to this session and now I invite them to join in giving a solemn statement. I declare,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9290	I declare, 2
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9291	that I will solemnly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9292	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9293	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9294	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9295	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9296	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9297	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9298	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9299	I congratulate you, and I congratulate you on your work. So, like I said a little while ago, you got a proposal on the agenda with the materials. [[APLAuz]] I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Therefore, the debate on the proposed agenda. Since there are no reports to discuss the agenda, Mr Sadik Ahmetović. I ask you, I, that I could work effectively, that the time when I say that the debate is the possibility of you answering. Here you go, Mr. Ahmetović. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9300	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, so this is not a proposal for this session of the agenda, but I would like to point out that because of this new situation in Srebrenica, a meeting was held, so BiH officials, representatives of political parties, and on the contrary, we have some different stories coming from individual and domestic and foreign circles, that we are doing something extra-institutional, anti-Daytonic in Srebrenica, etc. With this in mind, I would like to inform this house or suggest that at the next session, or as quickly as possible, let us discuss these conclusions that were reached in Srebrenica so that no one can label us that we are some rebels or something that is not in accordance with the laws, regulations and the Dayton Peace Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9301	You can translate this into an initiative, so within this point of the parliamentary questions and initiatives, give it. Is there any further agenda related? Here you go, Mr. Križanović. We can't hear you, Mr. Križanović. Is the card in? Here's a good one.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9302	At the pre-session of this house, we should have discussed the resignation of members of the Board of Directors of the Public Television System BH1. It was then explained that Mr. Ćustović withdrew his request, but at the session of the College held on 7 this month, I asked that information be provided to this home by the Management Board, to inform this house of events that took place in the Management Board regarding the open conflict between the Government of Republika Srpska and TRVBH1. Then I was told that the College would request information from the Management Board
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9303	Requested
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9304	And if the information comes, it's going to be in this agenda today. So, before I go any further, I want to say about this, I need to know if the College has sent a request to the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9305	Yes 4
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9306	To deliver information and what's the outcome?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9307	Yeah. We haven't got the answer yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9308	Please, we didn't get it, did we?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9309	Yeah. We've asked, and we haven't received the answer yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9310	Can I go on now?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9311	You can, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9312	Thank you. So I think this is a very important question and it deserves some serious urgent information. There is therefore no reasonable reason why the Management Board could not provide this information in due time. I am deeply convinced that if you read the written resignation of Mr. Ćustović and then the reasons for the resignation and especially what happened in our public, that we were frakked by the relationship of RTV BH1 according to the remarks that came from the RS and the situation that was later
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9313	We're discussing the agenda. Any suggestions for the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9314	Please, can I explain? Okay, here we go, briefly. I find it very important that the public of BiH, given the responsibility of this parliament, which is the only one responsible for the work of the Board of Directors, is the BH1 to discuss the situation today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9315	So the proposal is dots, the draft agenda point is the debate on the state of the
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9316	The situation, the causes and consequences that we had when we replaced the CEO of RTV BH1 and Mr. Ćustović's resignation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9317	Thank you, Mr. Križanovć. Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9318	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the College, MPs, dear guests, I warmly welcome you all. I am surprised by the SDP Club president's statement when he knows that we are on the Transport and Communications Commission, where you are also a member of the SDP, discussed this issue, where Mr Ćustović was present. He withdrew his own and the Commission's conclusion was that at one of the meetings of the Commission we invite all the Management Board with this report. So there's a procedure,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9319	Mr. Bahtić, don't let us turn this into a debate and replica now, etc. The man suggested
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9320	And it's not a replica, it's a discussion. There's a line
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9321	We're discussing the agenda. So, the man suggested a agenda point. We'll set out on that proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9322	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9323	Cheers. Is there any further? Here you go, Mr. Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9324	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. I have a proposal that is in line with the activities run by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. In fact, we are conducting activities to prepare a comprehensive proposal to amend and supplement the Customs and Customs Tariffs Act, excise duties, etc. So if the 6th Proposer were to agree to add this point 3 to that one comprehensive proposal, then perhaps it would be better if today without this point 3. Of course, I have nothing against this amendment and the addition of the Customs Tariff Act. On the contrary, I will support it, but although it is only a procedural matter, here I would ask the Proposer to plead on this matter and certainly this comprehensive amendment and supplementation would be very quickly in the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9325	Thank you. Any other suggestions? So we have two suggestions. Let's take it in a row. We have two suggestions. One proposal was made by Mr. Križanović. So he's asking to be on the agenda of today's session, about what, sir? Let's hear what's going on. ________(?) [[You can't hear anything.]] Okay, thank you. So, let's take it in a row. Did you introduce yourselves to say goodbye? The MPs don't know you. Well, here you are, and you've done yours. Just pretend that people know. _______(?) [[You can't hear anything.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9328	Only if there's an optional point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9329	Only if it's an optional item of the agenda, and this point of the agenda is mandatory and unfortunately, we can't, uh, discuss. You should have animated one of the MPs, eventually, or, in the debate, you'll make your point when we get to that point of the agenda. Here we go to the plea. So, Mr Križanović's proposal to include the agenda item in today's session – the condition, the causes and consequences of the resignation of Plamenko Ćustović, a member of the Management Board. 7 Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. It's 14, it's up to 14, it doesn't have an absolute majority. So this proposal was not accepted. And we have another situation, one of Mr Mehmedović's initiatives towards the MP who is the legislator of the law, under paragraph 3. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9330	Here I am going to meet this gentleman's proposal regarding this agenda point. Let him go to regular procedure, but in the regular procedure, he thinks you'll have to finish this job in 30 days. So I'm warning you that if you go to a regular procedure, you have to follow that bill. Let him go to regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9331	Mr. Živković, did I get you all right? So, you're pulling to go into regular procedure, or to plead. You're pulling. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. So I also find that point 3 has been withdrawn by the motionor and it is going into a regular procedure and opening up the possibility for the Council of Ministers and Ministers, etc. to get involved in the procedure. If you'll allow me to establish the agenda for today's 5th session. Excuse me, I have to do this for the record. It'll take a little while longer. 1. Approval of the minutes of the 4th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of BiH citizens under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure (delivered 28.6.2002, “F. BiH messenger", No.16/02; 4. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to consider the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Recording and Exchange of Information under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (received 28.6.2002, “the so-called BiH Messenger”, No. 16/02; 5. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to consider the Law on the adoption of the Act on Additional Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank of BiH's Emergency Procedure Act, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (delivered 7.3.2003, “Slatnik BiH”, No. 8/03); 8 6. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (received 27.1.2006, “F. the messenger of BiH”, No.11/06; 7. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure (received 6.2.2004, “F. BiH messenger, No. 4/04); 8. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (bringed 31.3.2004, “F. BiH's messenger, No.10/04); 9. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure (received 20.4.2004, “F. BiH's messenger, No.17/04); 10. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (received 1.5.2004, “Slatnik BiH”, No. 20/04); 11. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to consider the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (received on 20.10.2004, “Slatnik BiH”, No.52/04); 12. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to consider the Law on the adoption of the Law on Putting Off the Force of the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Amnesty by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (received 26.11.2004, “the so-called BiH Messenger”, No. 54/04); 13. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure (received 26.11.2004, “Spect. BiH messenger, No. 54/04); 14. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure (delivered 16.12.2004, “F. BiH's messenger, No. 63/04); 15. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on the Temporary ban on the availability of state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (delivered 18.3.2005, “F. BiH messenger, No. 18/05); 16. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to consider the Law on the adoption of the Law on the Making of Names or to change the existing names of objects and legal persons of public interest for Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (received 28.10.2005, “F. BiH messenger, No. 81/05; 17. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to consider the Law on the adoption of the Law on Salary and Other Refunds in the judicial and judicial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (bringed 9:12.2005, “F. BiH messenger, No. 90/05); 18. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure (bringed 28.1.2004), “F. BiH messenger, No. 4/04); 19. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to consider the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act prohibiting the availability of state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (delivered 18.3.2006, “F. BiH messenger, No. 29/06); 20. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on the Temporary ban on the availability of state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (received 28.09.2006, “F. BiH messenger, No.85/06; 21. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić for the adoption of the Decision extending the mandate of the State Commission for the Review of the Decision on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens (the decision of the High Representative of 15.2.2007). “So-called BiH Messenger” No. 10/07; 22. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Border Service of BiH (second reading); 23. Proposal for a law on radiation and nuclear security in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 24. Proposal for a law on violations (second reading); 25. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions of BiH (first reading) Proposer: Member Momčilo Novaković; 26. Proposal for a law on higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the Constitutional Commission Report; 27. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2006; 28. Report on the work of the Board of Appeal in 2006; 29. The Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Zlatko Lagumdžija to draw up a road map for the return of so-called Algerian groups from Guantanamo; 30. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Ad hoc Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsmen of BiH; 31. The appointment of members of the permanent committees of the House (instead of MPs who suspended their mandate in the House); 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the adoption of an amendment to the Agreement between the Council of 10 Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on road transport of passengers and freight. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Point one, Ad.1. The 4th session of the House of Representatives, which you have received. Any objections to the record? Mr. Zorić, here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9333	I welcome all present and perhaps a little strange
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9334	Did you get this supplement, I apologize? Supplement to the minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9335	I don't. Just a little bit, maybe.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9336	That maybe it's not about the same thing? Okay, here you go, Mr. Zorić, and we'll get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9337	It's not about the same thing. Uh, maybe it's a little weird that the only non-session MP has an objection to the record, but I was justifiably not present at the session, and it doesn't say here. And so far, we've had the custom of finding that out in the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9338	So I have probably failed to conclude in the record that Mr Zorić justified the absence from the 4th session and, of course, this observation is such a nature to be accepted. And here's a chance to take advantage of today's announcement by Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović and Milica Marković, Elez-Elez-Marković, who are on the official road. So we're going back to the debate, the record. Any more remarks on the record? If he doesn't, can we make a statement about the record? Vote now. 11 I conclude that we unanimously adopted the minutes from the 4th session of the House of Representatives, with the correction of course, which is shared to you with this intervention by Mr Zorić. Let's go to point two. Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers I, unfortunately, must conclude that so far we have not received any answers to the parliamentary question, except for one notice of the incompetence of a ministry that informs us that it has referred our question to the competent ministry. Here, now we move on to questions. Mr. Sadik Bahtić. Are there any more reported? Wait a minute. So Sadik Bahtić, Mr. Jovičić, Rajilić, Šemso Mehmedović, Remzija Kadrić, Jozo Križanović, Mr. Dolić, Denis Bećirović. Is there more? I'm asking you to sign up. Is this what we're going to conclude? Thank you. We're going in a row. Mr. Sadik Bahtić, please, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9340	A parliamentary question for the Council of Ministers or a competent institution of the Resorient Ministry. I ask that all state property be recorded in Bosnia and Herzegovina and who is currently in possession of it? I ask this parliamentary question for the reasons why the cost of the rental in Budžet in 2006 amounted to 14 million 383 thousand 282 KM, and this year the planned costs of the lease have increased and have been proposed in the amount of 16 million 206,000 KM. Turns out what? that the state does not have any property for us, although we know that BiH has large assets. On the economic side, this is very negatively reflected in the overall economic situation in BiH because logic itself says it would be more economical and cost-effective for the BiH Council of Ministers to build its own building for these couples. If we take for example. For a period of 5 years, the state will rent cca 80 million makraks for which it could build buildings that could accommodate all state institutions in the entire BiH area without saying that all business banks would be very happy and loaned and supported the project. And another question, for the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry. 12 I ask to be answered why the Council of Ministers at the time of the Alliance for Change in which Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija was chaired, the foreign minister, sold the monetary gold that our ancestors had been hard-earned and kept in the safest vaults of the world's banks for centuries. ( a) At what price was state gold sold, and what was the world market price of gold at that time, since gold was sold at a very low market price, according to my information? ( b) What reasons were there to free the Council of Ministers and States of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the reserve of monetary gold? c) Is it true that since the sale price of gold, state entity peaks have been committed, we know that 1/3 goes to RS, 2/3 to the Federation, that at least 10% of the funds intended for development will be used to finance the development of human resources, which I support, a new entrepreneurial society and education in the field of information technologies, so that Lagumdžija opens up room for himself and his friends to collect fees. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9341	Thank you. Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9342	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Council of Ministers, my parliamentary question is addressed to the Council of Ministers but since there are no members here, but I hope they will pass on, the other thing is not in
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9343	I see there are some
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9344	There are some that should have been directed, no. So, it's not in writing because we don't have any conditions for club work. Except for the phone there, like I have a cell phone in my pocket, there's nothing else we can do. But it will be a question that will be addressed to some other institutions. So, I ask that the competent institutions of the Council of Ministers, whether it is the Ministry of Civil Affairs, deliver to me a list of all employees of 48 state institutions by national structure, not wanting to insult anyone, from the housekeeper to the chairman Radmanović. Because we're not just gonna, we're about to adopt the Budget, watch the audit reports on who's where he spent it. Whether he abused the position or not. Also, the second parliamentary issue concerns the same and is addressed to the Council of Ministers. 13 To provide me with a list of all privileged officials, therefore, advisers and assistants who, of course, do not want to hurt but the information says that they use official cars, to use various privileges while we MPs in Parliament do not have any conditions. So, if you understand me, the first question to repeat -- to deliver me a list of all the institutions of the BiH state by national structure because we are the new assembly of Parliament. It's especially a change in the structure of the RS so I want to be aware of who's doing everything there. How about I repeat another question to make it clearer, - to get me a list of all the people who are employed in the ministries and the Council of Ministers, who uses official cars, mobile phones, and who gave them these powers? So this Parliament, I first do not want to bear responsibility and call us in the media that we are the biggest consumers and practically have the weakest working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9345	Just give it to me in writing. And please focus more on the question and less on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9346	I'll write it with my hand.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9347	You can use the machine as far as I'm concerned. All you have to do is deliver. Let's move on. Mrs. Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9348	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you were probably informed that we had a meeting of businessmen here in the BiH Assembly the other day and, of course, the businessmen came with different questions and we will meet these questions here in the Assembly. They'll probably be appointed by the other members of the commission whose president I am. One of the questions asked, that is, here is to me and in writing, delivered, regarding the dedicated industry in the field of exclusive devices. I would forward this question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or the Directorate for Direct Taxation, or to their Management Board, to consider opening up border crossings for explosive devices in the area of economy, on the move of the New City-Gradiška, because as things now stand, these crossings that are defined for this goods are located in three places that are very far away from these producers. They consider that the ICC did not take into account where economic operators are located, so goods happen, for example. exports to Split and exits from Prijedor all the way here to Mostar, which is 14 far more difficult, more expensive, etc. They then did not take into account where the re-promaterials came from and did not therefore take care of exports. So, I'll deliver this in writing, but please respond, i.e. emergency action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9349	Thank you. Mr. Mehmedović Šemso.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9350	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have one question for the Minister of Transport and Communications. Since the appointment of the Council of Ministers to this day, I have noticed in the media statements and steps of the Minister for Transport of Communications on the subject of the beginning, or reached agreement on the construction of the Peljesac Bridge. My question concerns, reads; On what basis does the minister give such a public view? Is that his personal position, the Council of Ministers' position or this body where we work today? Then, as a representative, inform me of the degree of consistency of this issue between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, and that we also know in the future on the basis of which decision or conclusion, or which act, and which institution is based on such a minister's position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9351	Thank you, Mr. Mehmedović. Mr. Kadrić Remzija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9352	I thank the chairman. I ask the issue to the Constitutional Court of BiH; whether or not the legal consequences under Republika Srpska have the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of BiH; 47/92 of 8.10. '92. the year the Declaration on the Declaration of the Republic of the Serbian People in BiH is being annulled. Under 2. The Constitution of the Serbian Republic of BiH since 28.02.1992 and its amendments from 11.08 and 01.09.In '92. 15 And under 3rd general acts adopted on the basis of the acts referred to in the preceding points. I note, therefore, with this question that after that Constitutional Court decision, the Republic of Slovenia has never adopted a new Constitution but has repeatedly changed and complemented the new constitution. So I'm looking for a written answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9353	Mr. Rifet Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9354	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I ask the chairman that one minute of tolerance you have in relation to this business time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9355	It's not a problem with me. The problem is with the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9356	One parliamentary issue is referred to members of the BiH presidency and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The question is: What can you and what do you intend to do to protect the remaining assets of the company "Agro-Comertz" velik Kladuša, which is for many years, and these days, exposed to unprecedented robbery and destruction by criminals and thieves, and under the auspices of the current management and post-war and current authorities in the Un-San canton, Federation and BiH? Reason - this question is the last cry and call for you, as the highest institution of the executive government, to take action to protect the remaining assets of Agro-komerac-Comer, which has been for many years and these days also the subject of the organization of criminals and robbers under the auspices of the current management of Agro-komerac-Comer. Without any restraint, I will say that what is done and what has been done before, after the war in Agro-Commerce, the crime and civilization shame of every Bosanac and Hercegovac, especially those who are responsible and powerful to do something about those who rob and destroy this former Bosnian giant. Without any reservations or restraints, I will say that destroying and robbing Agro-komerac is a classic example of the idyllic cooperation of police, justice, management and authorities on both criminals and thieves on the other side. 16 Agro-comer, or rather, what is left of it, is not known today. As of today, neither Tsar nor Spahian, but literally belongs to the combined forces of criminals and current management, and they destroy and rob daily what remains of Agro-komerc-Comer. Until last year, employees of porters who had not been paid for years were involved in physical property protection and were objectively unable to protect property from aggressive robbers and criminals in management but were at least enrolling and witnessing the robbery. Since last year, a professional security house has been hired, not to protect the property of Agro-comer, but to protect criminals and management that they're safe while they're robbing. I ask the question of the day-to-day cry of powerless workers and citizens of the Great Cladouda, the Cazin and the Buzim who are forced to watch as thieves and criminals defile and rob what has been painfully created and which still represents a certain potential. I ask the question also because as a man and as an MP in this house, I cannot reconcile with the fact that I live in a bandit state. I suggest that in these allegations you request information from SIPA and other measuring institutions because I know reliably that such written information on the crime of Agro-komerac-Commander exists but their further research and processing for unknown reasons has been hitched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9357	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Mr. Jozo Križanović. There's no replica of any parliamentary questions. It's not real. Mr. Bahtić indeed. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9358	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will continue where I was on the previous wheel. So, since this house has not accepted the proposal, I will use the right to represent, ask a representative question. Just one sentence to say what I'm doing. Because I make a big difference between the report that the Governing Board is obliged to deliver annually to this Parliament, so as one regular activity and my obligation to this home, and the other is that I believe that there has been some thing that has been produced in the public of BiH, and that this body, therefore, has the right and the obligation to know the real causes of the situation why it happened. So, I formulated a question like this – in light of the open conflict between RTBiH and the Government of RS, which resulted in the shift of the general racer and the offered one and then the resignation of Mr Ćustović, a member of the RTTVBH1 Management Board, opened up a lot of space for various speculations in the public of BiH. I request urgent information from the 17 Management Board of RTVBH1 on all circumstances and actual causes that have led to this situation in the Management Board and RTVBH1. In particular, it would be important to know whether the measures taken have normalised and what will be done further so that such excesses do not occur in the future?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9359	Thank you very much. Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Sven, keep your voice down. Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9360	Respected chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, esteemed media representatives, I also spoke during the election of the latest Council of Ministers' call on the region as a whole of north-east Bosnia, and especially the city of Tuzla, to be found in its own traffic and communication isolation. In the last 5 years or so, there have been a lot of announcements and promises that this situation will change. In practice, however, nothing concrete has been done. So my first question is: What are you planning and what exactly are you going to do in the 2007-2010 mandate to extract Tuzla and the North-Eastern Bosnia region from traffic and communication isolation? I'm asking the question to the Minister of Communications and Transport and I'm looking for an answer in writing. My second question is about human rights violations of Fater Orlović from Konjevic Polje near Bratunac. Namely, Fata Orlović is an example of the country's great injustice and shame, and especially the local and entity authorities that observe the violation of elementary human rights. Fata Orlović appears to be guilty of surviving genocide and defending her private property. In particular, the issue is raised by the diplomatic crust of Western countries. Now that the genocide in Srebrenica has been confirmed and the crime against humanity on BiH territory, can anyone imagine what would happen in one Germany that after 1945, after the genocide, the victim of genocide was tried and that it was brought before the court only because he defends his private property. I think it is humiliating for all the honest people in this country, unrelated to what religion and nation they belong but it is also a humiliation to the entire international community that allowed this civilizational disgrace to be brought to BiH by the Court of Justice in RS. And in 11 years, RS has not arrested its first president, the most responsible for genocide in Srebrenica. So I ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Human Rights and Refugees and Minister of Justice that everyone from their corner answers the following question; 18 What have you done so far concretely and what will you do in the coming period with the aim of helping innocent old woman Fata Orlović, who is being usurped with private property and who remains exposed to various humiliations in front of the eyes of the entire domestic and foreign public? And the third question, given that the ruling parties reached an agreement on their programme objectives on 3 January, I am asking a concrete question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. What exactly are you planning to do in the first 100 days of the Council of Ministers' work, or what you will concretely implement under the Programme Goals Agreement signed on 3 January 2007, signed by parliamentary majority representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9361	Thank you very much. So this is how we ended point 2 of Parliament's questions and answers. Moving to point 3. Ad.3. The request of MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić to discuss the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of BiH citizens under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure So this is about two things. We have to vote on the procedure first. So we vote on whether we're in favour of an emergency procedure and then we vote on the law. I have a suggestion. So, we can, of course, vote on the laws individually. But to uniquely declare that we're going after an emergency procedure. So we don't have to vote twice for every law every time. I don't think we're making a precedent or committing any kind of a misdemeanor. So, to vote unitedly, that all the laws from point 3 to point, just a little bit, to point 21, we are considering an emergency procedure. Does anyone think this is wrong? I'm doing economics and rationality. That's what I wanted to ask. Are we in the mood to consider all these laws from points 3 to 21 by emergency procedure, and we will vote individually, of course, when it comes to the law itself? Can we get to the bottom of this? So who's up for it? Vote now. So, I find that with 3 votes against, with 30 votes for, with the required entity majority, we have adopted a conclusion on the proposed laws from points 3 to 21 to consider them by emergency procedure. 19 I suggest that we even unify the debate if there are no different opinions? Can we do this as a method of work, so we can unite the debate, and we will individually plead? So I am opening a debate on the laws from point 3 to point 21 imposed by the High Representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9364	On behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party Club, I would just like to inform that we will not support any of these laws, since it is the 105 procedure, the old procedure and 105 new and 127. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9365	Yes, it's known as your habit. Here you go, Mr. Hadži Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9366	Gentlemen chairman. It's clear that this is about laws imposed, but it's not clear to me if we suggest that these are our laws, that the promoters didn't really do it without making a difference what they are from the High Representative. I don't think he's standing here, he says, in accordance with Article 99, he can propose an MP, a commission, a predsedništvo, a council of ministers, etc. But here it is proposed to impose laws directly and manifestly, the laws that are true now in office. In my view, it would be logical for these laws to be prescribed without this preamble, if these laws have already proved to be in order, without this preamble and explanation by the High Representative, why they impose that law. I have a feeling and there's an impression that in this country, if we do this today and we make laws like this, that the High Representative, this today and some of the next, can and can have an open door that everything they think is going to impose on this country and that after three, four years with some new set of people, we're going to be here in a position not to say we don't accept those laws the way they are. Why didn't the gentlemen at that moment, the ones who sat in these benches not think that moment, bring it, if we here today consider these laws to be right? For this reason, for principled reasons, I think that the promoters should, here if they are considered to be in order to rewrite this law consistently as the High Representative has said and by proposing it without any changes, not by applying the Official Messenger to whom we are forced to simply publish it in that messenger, I will remain restrained about all these laws today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9367	Now, if you'll excuse me, since I'm one of the promoters, we've made the proposals by the rules and regulations, and I think that if you're looking at a concrete proposal, I don't think he has anything that, uh, is out of line. And we felt obliged to apply the law to you, the basic law that the High Representative passed, to see what it was about. All right, let's move on. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9368	Perhaps a little clarification to Mr. Hadža Jovan Mitrović. Since I have in my hand the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in the BiH Institutions, where Article 56 and Article 47 strictly states that the laws by the High Representative are being passed, saying that the adoption law contains the name of the decision declared by the High Representative for BiH, the number of official messengers, etc., so that all of this is done in such a legal way. We didn't have any maneuvering space here. But what I'm saying is, one thing, something else about this. Namely, we are aware of the fact that in BiH we have in force the laws imposed by the High Representative, which has not been confirmed by this Parliamentary Assembly. At the same time, we have laws that this Parliamentary Assembly has confirmed and they are in the process, that is, they are being applied. We also have laws that the High Representative has imposed, and then the Parliamentary Assembly has passed parallel laws and this has happened since 2002 when this law, one of these laws, was passed until, to, behold, this last decision, made by the High Representative. I think it's an unsustainable condition. At the same time, I wanted to make a contribution to the legal uncertainty in BiH once and for all. I am also deeply aware of the fact that the Venice Commission made a recommendation as early as 2005, saying that the democratic principle of the sovereignty of the people requires the law to adopt the body chosen by Article 3. The first protocol, along with the European Convention on Human Rights, requires that the legislative body be a people, and this right is deprived of its content if the laws are adopted by another body. It means a deep awareness of this fact, however, and my desire not to force an intimate policy in BiH, but a policy in which we will respect each other. I am aware that after this, I am no longer ready in this House to raise my hands for any law by the High Representative. This is also a warning to the International Community and to all those who think they will be able to read well what the Venice Commission has proposed to draw a line with all the laws that the High Representative has passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9369	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Is there any further discussion? If there is no suggestion, since we have decided to consider all these laws by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. 21 I propose that we make a statement on the proposal for a law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of the Citizens of BiH. Vote now. I thought we voted on the procedure, I think we voted on the procedure. We did, we did, we sure did. We voted, sir. There's no reason to vote twice. So here we go again, let's do it again. So vote now. With 30 votes to, 3 against with a sufficient entity majority. I realize this law has been passed. We move to a statement on the Law, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9375	You skipped one law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9376	So, with 22 votes for, 3 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority. I realize we've passed this law, too. So it's about the High Court and Prosecutor's Council Act. I'm going back to
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9377	Amendments and additions to the Court Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9378	Declaration on the Law, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. Vote now. With 31 votes for, 3 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority. I realize we've passed this law, too. The following is the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9394	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs. You see, even when I first read the last session, I had some remarks. First of all, the procedure of how we came to this law. I was then asking the promoter for a clear view of whether this law was in line. So, is he in line with the entities, given that we all know well what kind of negotiations we should have come to this institution in BiH and this is called the State Border Service Institution. I received an answer that there was no such agreement with the entities, but that the promoter felt that it was not about the fundamental changes and that for these reasons it did not comply. I still don't think it's about formal amendments to the law. I repeat again, given that I know and that we know how hard we have come to this institution and this name. On the other hand, I think it would have been much better if this law had been the result of a reform of police structures in BiH and that we had then received this name and I don't think it would have likely been controversial in that variant. With everything in mind, I must say that we are not ready to support this law in another reading. No matter what we didn't have the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9395	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Is there anyone else who might have applied for the hearing? If he doesn't. Please let us be clear about this law in the second reading. Vote now. With 30 votes to, three against, two abstentions to the entity majority. I agree that we have passed the Act amending the State Border Service Act. 27 We're going to point 23, right, Selime? Okay. So it's about Ad.23. Proposal for a Law on radiation and nuclear security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, also second reading Note, the draft law has been proposed by the Council of Ministers in the procedure since 2.08.2006. At the 84th session of the former assembly, a request for procedure 104 was adopted, so shortened. On 25.08.2006, the Constitutional and First Commission delivered an opinion on the Proposal for a Law. The Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a report on the Proposal for a Law on 14 September with one amendment. Practically, the Commission adopted a positive report. At the 85th session of the bill adopted in the first reading. In good time, Mr Milorad Živković, acting as MPs, submitted eight amendments to the law. So we are in the second reading phase and we have an obligation to consider amendments submitted at this stage and vote on them. So, I'm opening a debate on the law in the second reading, which includes a debate on amendments. Who's applying for a hearing? Does he have a proposal? Mr. Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9397	Gentlemen of the Presidency, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am very pleased that this law has come to the agenda, a team before this law has been done since 2000, perhaps even before. On several occasions, ministers belonging to various political parties and various governments led the talks to the name of the agency's establishment and adoption of this law, so that in the end, much has been brought into line and translated into this law. This is the sekretarijat or the Secretariat, however you like, of the Council of Ministers, if I didn't tell the Government, gave an explanation for the proposal for this law in which we actually have everything in it and what led to this law being introduced, so I wouldn't repeat it. So that's the point. First that we are a member of the International Agency, on the other hand, what this law really needs for all BiH citizens for their health and safety of their children, their descendants. I can say this law is well-conceived. If one modern law is at all, let's tell the European standards that they should be, that clearly defined objectives in Article 2 of this law, where it says, by establishing, I'll just quote one indent. The establishment of a national regulatory body for.... nuclear security, with an adequate set of functions and responsibilities and the necessary resources to establish regulatory control. 28 So my opinion is completely that this law is in accordance with and quality of one law. What I have read, I have read to point out the amendments that have been set here, without doubting the good intentions of the promoters of these amendments. I have to say my own personal opinion, and that is, if these amendments were to be adopted, the law would actually get a different form, a different form, and it wouldn't serve the purpose that was actually, for which this law was made. Here, for example in Amendment I, in Article 5, the existing item 5 is deleted and a new item is added, etc. is deleted. By erasing Article 5, we are, in fact, erasing all that we have said about the establishment of the State Regulatory Agency. In my opinion, this amendment should certainly not be adopted, it should not be incorporated into this law. In fact, in this article, a lot of what the amendment promoter has said and said is said only in another form. And this, he says, is – for the sake of a more rational and efficient performance of operations, the Agency can organise work through organisational units and outside the headquarters of the agency in entities and Brcko District. So that the works of the agency can also be in entities, so they can be in the Brcko District, and therefore everything, all the intentions that may have been from the proposings, although I can't read the thoughts of others or their parts, is respected in Article 5 of this agency. With what I have to say, the purpose of the Agency or the regulatory body is, in fact, the purpose of creating an independent regulatory body. This means a body that will be independent, and highly professionally, to implement all conventions on the protection of human health on radiation, and that body cannot be, nor can its parts of the body be with the ministries of certain ministries. I can't even be in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9398	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9399	Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9400	Attention, I'm telling people that
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9401	For the ministries and for this reason I support this law as a whole and I believe that it is my personal opinion if any of the amendments were adopted, that the law does not actually have the purpose for which it was made, and not to say that, in the light of this, it is written, that for 2007 and 2008, large funds are intended to help create certain different projects if this law was adopted. And I'm all in favor of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9402	Thank you, Mr. Ajanović. Here you go. Are there any reports? Mr. Živković, the applicant of the amendment. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9403	Dear President, ladies, MPs, I have come out only to further clarify the amendments proposed by this law, and that unlike my distinguished colleague Ajanović, I am trying to convince you that these amendments will not change the principles of this law, but rather only the additional, individual members of this law, will clarify and remove any doubt as to how this law will be implemented. So, aware of the fact that this law is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina, aware of the fact that a lot of concessions and transfers have been made here to say, so far, the jobs done at the level of the entity, at the level of the agency that will be established at BiH level, and its seat is, to point out in Article 5, it is well stated that it will be in Sarajevo, this amendment of mine and only decidently states what should be put in place by 5 members of the 5th predict that it will sometimes happen. So this is an additional clarification of Article 5, not changing the principles of the law, not entering its enforceability. To say that in this law, the Agency retains, at the state level, what are the principles of law, jurisdiction and inspection, and entity bodies are left with the possibility of practical implementation of this law. We have, say, a few examples in BiH, say, an entity-level water inspection, at federal level (?) Where are the problems? Problems are in the work of inspectors at the level of where they need to determine whether the pollution of that water was. Why centralize in BiH all sorts of things if we have already given sufficient authority to an agency that even cares about the disposal of radioactive waste, rather than let the institutions which, I must say, are doing well already, continue to work. Therefore, I ask you to read these amendments well and to see that as I think they do not enter the principles of the law and I ask you to support these amendments, depending on the support of these amendments, our relationship with this law will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9404	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Is it a replica to Mr. Ajanović? And so are you, Mr Ajanović's replica behind you, Mr Džaferović. Here you go, Mr. Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9405	Although it wouldn't turn out every time, in fact, when we're touching the health care parts, my esteemed student and I are constantly not replicating. I still have something to say. 30 Let me, in conversations with ministers from 2000 to 2002, have participated several times in discussions on the creation of these legal assumptions for the creation of an agency, of this current agency that the law provides for. And the essence of the whole conversation was that these bodies had to be outside the ministries. Also, if you read the health reform well, regardless of whether it was carried out at the level of an entity or at the level of a part of the state or at the level of this other, all the key is the reform to reach the final goal, which is to privatise practices and be bodies that regulate and control independent bodies. So here in this law is also foreseen, and the amendment submitted by my esteemed colleague says explicitly to remind(?) Regulatory authorities at entity level shall act in the jurisdiction of the ministries in the relevant ministries. In fact, it changes the essence of that. It is not derived from the ministries from this agency but remains in, remains a good part of the action still with the ministries, which is neither possible nor necessary, nor can be applied to this agency. And the other thing, it's always been about harmonising the law. I don't argue that there wasn't a time when it was being built, when we were putting on, so we kind of harmonised both the laws and the other, so here's the work of the regulatory bodies of this agency and everything. However, the ultimate goal is to create an agency that will be a regulatory body at the level of the state that will communicate with the world, while at the same time carrying out surveillance of nuclear radiation across the entire BiH state because it is impossible to implement it only in one or another entity because it is incurring to the overall protection of human health no matter where we are, let's just banalise, where waste has been placed, where some source of ionizing radiation etc. and for this reason, it should not leave regulatory mechanisms or these at the ministries. They have to get out of the ministries and they have to be this, the agency at the level of the state that has been set up but nowhere, so we can guarantee and let these, parts of the regulatory mechanisms remain in those parts where they have been, in one correct way, which is foreseen by Article 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9406	Thank you. Mr. Džaferović. Is there anyone else who might have applied for the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9407	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is about, every law is important but it is really very important in the Law on BiH, which the International Atomic Energy Agency, based in Vienna, is paying great attention to. The need for the adoption of this law so far in BiH has been discussed on several occasions and so much attention has been given by the International Agency to this law that even members of both homes have been involved in the process of making this law, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly College of both homes and we had been involved in 2005 in November of the month and called and we traveled to the headquarters of this international agency in Vienna. This law was made by the standards of that agency and this law was done with agreement or close cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency. It also contains standards that meet what the International Atomic Energy Agency is asking BiH to do, and 31 obligations stem from a number of conventions concerning this area, so that I do not read them, which BiH has ratified. And, if you have followed and read, and I suppose it is, the explanation that we have received from the Council of Ministers, it is said in one part that these conventions and multilateral contracts assume the existence of a state law, instead of currently parallel entity laws, which will uniquely regulate areas of ionising radiation, radiation and nuclear security according to international standards. All members of the International Atomic Energy Agency except Bosnia and Herzegovina have implemented this obligation so far. The Constitutional and Legal Commission in the last term considered, among other things, these or similar amendments and did not accept them. For all I know, only one amendment has been accepted. These amendments, in addition to the best will for man to engage in their consideration and the need to pay due attention to all amendments, deny the concept of this law that he spoke of earlier in his own way, Professor Ekrem Ajanović. Because, watch out, if you make a change, and all the other amendments are a reflection of this amendment in some way, if you make a change in Article 5, then instead of, the words as proposed by this amendment, for a more rational and efficient way, the agency can organise work through organisational units and outside the Agency's headquarters, in entities and the Brcko District, and this is a legal solution and it is satisfactory from the aspect of these standards. And then you add a new position that says that the existing regulatory bodies at entity level work in the competent ministries, you don't actually have a state agency. You have bodies operating in the competent ministries on the ground and actually on one let's say, here's no way to say, so we would play the essence of this standard in Article 5, which assumes the formation of the agency, and here is satisfying the interests of all of us in BiH and its headquarters and this, its organisational units in entities and Brcko District of BiH. And it comes from this difference later on mostly, the rest of these amendments. That's why I'd ask. So, since this is a very serious and very hot topic, I would ask, and if the matter were therefore considered and the law was done in close co-operation with the International Atomic Energy Agency, I said except for the members of the Council of Ministers up there and the parliamentarians were invited and they traveled, I am one of them who traveled. I would ask my colleague Živković to give up these amendments, to adopt the law in this text as he passed on to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, with this amendment adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and that finally BiH has this law. These amendments simply if we want to respect the concept of the law, they don't, they don't simply fit into the concept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9408	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. We have a replica, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9409	When you said that the broad debate was about this law and that international experts consulted, domestic experts and bodies currently working at 32 levels of the entity, I asked the Ministry of Health of Republika Srpska to determine this, according to the amendments I said. I received a letter from 27.02. saying that the Ministry of Health and Social Protection is of the opinion that it is necessary to adopt a state law while adopting the proposed amendments that allow the survival of entity regulatory bodies with clearly defined competences. Obviously, we're coming back to the fact that someone's been making a deal, that they haven't been able to make a deal, and that someone wrote that it was agreed and mutually agreed. According to this memo I got, it's obviously not consistent. But let's put that aside. We're the State Parliament, we're making state laws. I will also take Uvažić of the remarks made by distinguished counterparts Ajanović and Mr Džaferović and in the amendment that I have proposed, to talk about modifying him, to say, the existing regulatory bodies at entity level continue to operate in this or to formulate him that he is already legally in office in the membership of the agency. So he won't be in the ministries. Let's get him out of the ministry. But next, the other amendments are in sequence with the amendment that, number I. So I can't give up all the amendments. I can agree to rephrase the amendment and where we single out existing regulatory bodies from the ministries, put them in the... agencies, but that's why I'm staying for the other amendments to be here for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9410	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mr. Novaković called. So again, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9411	Okay, maybe it doesn't make sense that we in the opposition are helping, but here I am going to try to help. In fact, this is certainly about a new situation. After all, the new situation is that the current Council of Ministers is not a proposing although the Council of Ministers is a proposing one. It's not a good thing we don't have this law. However, the current positions are obviously this, such that we will not get after this session, or amendments for some clubs here are unacceptable and for the amendment promoter, the law is unacceptable without amendments. Perhaps it would be good to say here, to take advantage of this situation if we had some transition, possibly to give an opportunity to an existing Council of Ministers to say its word on amendments and on the law. Well, it's only at the next session that we'll eventually come to a final conclusion. I know we're gonna have a hard time finding a business foothold for this. Only here is the situation that some new situation is that there is not the same Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9412	So you're proposing to Mr. Novaković that we postpone 33
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9413	I propose that we postpone the statement on amendments and on the law without asking the Council of Ministers for a new meeting, meaning that they give their views on the amendments and on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9414	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9415	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I truly appreciate the apparent will to adopt this law in Parliament, of course both by colleagues Živković and by colleagues Novaković. Of course, there are different views on some very important and very important things that simply need to be checked when it comes to the views of the International Atomic Energy Agency, and finally the Council of Ministers. I would ask you to stick to the principle of continuity in the functioning of institutions in future work. This is a law proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH on that day, and that year, we did not consider it in Parliament. We today have a Council of Ministers who are personally in different configurations but also that is the Council of Ministers, and this is the Council of Ministers, and do not inaugurate the practice that is otherwise contrary to the Rules of Procedure, that here is the new Council of Ministers for verification or for reviewing something that has previously been done by the Council of Ministers. It is simple that BiH institutions must have continuity, and if we return everything, the question arises as far as we can. I am committed to the real adoption of this law, and I said that I noticed that there is therefore a expressed will and desire in those who have made amendments, although I find amendments unacceptable, but I have seen that will and desire to make the law. That's why I suggest that we don't ruin this law today, so we don't say anything about this law because it's obvious that by voting we would come into a position that we don't have the law and the only possible way, and that we respect the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think anything matters, not even different, from what counterpart Novaković was talking about,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9416	You're proposing the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9417	Let's get this back to the competent commission, let the committee in charge draw up a new report within 15 days, call on the committee to propose an amendment, to consult the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Council of Ministers and then to have the commission come out with a new report and vote here on the law. 34 I think it's the only possible way if we don't want to ruin the chance to have this law and get out of this situation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9418	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. I don't think there's any need to go any further, here's the obvious mood to accept a conclusion like this. Well, we'll have one. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9419	It's actually important elements, when it comes to radiation, God Bog we belong to those who have nuclear weapons. I'll just say one example. These days in Tuzla a few times in the River Prevent the problem of fish poisoning has emerged. I have to tell you that the River Stop is pouring into the river of Bosnia and in Doboj. That we had an incident. I would ask Mr. Živković to listen, and that this commission, or that this parliament is not, not Živković. That this parliament formed a commission to determine why fish were poisoned and how it came to be in Brezca. Since we have entity laws, and since we have and now we have a case that we don't know about ourselves, by entity law who's guilty of poisoning, I just have to say, when it's in the water that we all know what's going on, we don't have that law that manifests a continuous violation, I'd say human rights to enjoy healthy water. You might think if we didn't have this law that wouldn't let Bog happen to radiation. So please, let's find a solution. This is on the way that this law means, here's as you said back to the commission that she sees it, but this law no matter whether, uh, we wanted to agree or not, it's so subtle that it has to be state-level. Because radiation knows neither entities nor peoples, nor does it know only evil, and therefore I beg you, I accept these ideas if it is possible to see how we react, to get the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9420	Thank you very much. So here's what I'm going to do, so let me get this straight. The dom therefore concluded that the law would return to the competent commission in order to draw up a new report in addition to our guidelines, i.e. recommendations to carry out consultations with the Council of Ministers, the RES, the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Amendment Proposer. So within 15 days and a new report to be made. Please let us be clear about this conclusion. Vote now. 35 So, with 33 votes for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have reached this conclusion that re-assesssssssss the law on the commission and make up a new report. Moving to point 24. So we have Ad.24. Proposal for a Law on Infringements Let me remind you, it's about another reading. At the last session, we unanimously adopted this law in the first session, decided to consider it at the next session in the second reading. I'm opening a debate on the Law of Infractions. If there's no debate, I'll close the debate. Please prepare and vote. Vote now. With 32 votes for, without prejudice, 3 abstentions, enough entity majority, I agree that we have passed the BiH Violation Act. Congratulations to the resolute minister who's one of the few who's here today. Thank you very much. Moving to point 25. Ad.25. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9423	Dear colleagues, I'd like just a few words to draw your attention to this law. In fact, the need to have a law like this. First of all, individual members of this law kind of agree with the terminology between all the laws in BiH that cover this topic, so let's say we have such a situation in Article 2 and Article 1 of this law. Some members envisioned a slightly different approach to decision-making on the award of concessions and practically put the Council of Ministers in the first place instead of the ministry. Namely, my assessment and the assessment of some people in the profession in this area that the ministry is unable only means that it does not have the capacity to determine in fact and assess the full public interest and that because of the Council of Ministers, it is also said in Article 2 that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is, in fact, fully and ultimately, providing public interest. Article 3 provides, therefore, for three members of the commission to be appointed and, you see, words are added in the third row – depending on the case. Namely, my assessment is that it must be taken into account, means that the chairman must take care of what kind of case he is working on in order to suggest members of this committee depending on the case. So, who are close to the profession or close to this case. In Article 4, we have one situation, we know that this commission numbers 7 members and in this case the practical majority means for the Commission to work, to make decisions under the current law is 4. I suggest that it be 5. So I suggest it's 5. In fact, my assessment is that with number 5, a fully respected presence would satisfy both the criteria of territorial and national representation. And we know that it's important, after all, and because of the insight of the interest itself, and also the subject matter which is this, or which is the subject of the concession. Article 6 is, therefore, saying what has already been said. It means that instead of the ministry, the Council of Ministers is introduced, while here is practically in Article 5, whose results are Article 1 and Article 2. The law, puts in a word – satisfied. So where the Council of Ministers now grants concessions to the bidder who has met and met the criteria. Now in the Law he writes only fulfilled, fulfilled the criteria. In fact, it is not clear enough and can cause a dilemma, if one meets the criteria, it does not mean that he has met the meaning of the full criteria. And finally, and finally, Article 7 explains, I think that this member who is now in existence in the law is quite vague and, in fact, this Article 7 strengthens the relationship to international financial institutions. Here I seem to have had the need, in fact to clarify a little, since I must say that in the procedure of the then Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers did not feel the need to give this position after more urgency from the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9424	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Here, Mr. Suljkanović, I noticed Mr. Tink.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9425	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Party's Representatives' Club for BiH, I will briefly state the reasons why we are not in a position to support the amendments proposed by the Law on concessions. In this regard, the Council of Ministers would assume responsibility for the decision to award a concession. The Council of Ministers would also take over from the competent ministries the procedure for assessing the existence of public interest, and if amendments to Article 2(2) were adopted. The Council of Ministers would be in a position to discuss the award of the same concession twice, three times or twice. We therefore believe that the adoption of the proposed amendments would allow the blocking of all concessions at BiH level while, under the current law, the concessions commission makes a decision on the award of concessions to most votes. So, here in the shortest lines, these are the reasons why, as I pointed out, the Party's Representatives' Club for BiH is not in a position to support these changes to the Law on concessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9426	Thank you. Here you go. Here comes the man from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. According to the Rules of Procedure are mostly ministers or deputies but here, I see that the deputy is there. Well, here you go. I now say deputies or ministers. Here you go, Deputy. I really sincerely hope that the practice will come to life that ministers and deputies realize that it is their laws. I searched yesterday and yesterday all day long, called the minister to explain that there's something on the agenda today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9427	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is to remove this bill from the agenda point since the Council of Ministers has serious objections to this proposal and has returned the proposal to the ministry and that the ministry is currently in the middle of a new proposal. The opinion of the ministry and the commission is that we should go with the new law. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9428	Thank you, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Živković answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9429	In view of the report on the Bill Proposal, which the Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered to us on 13 September, where it is said that at the 70th session, it did not receive an opinion from the Council of Ministers on this law, that they requested an emergency and that at the 72nd session they did not receive an emergency again. That we now have a situation so that this law may not be supported here in Parliament according to the discussion of fellow Members of Parliament but also according to the Council of Ministers' wish to enter actively into giving its opinion on this law, I suggest we do as we did last time. To give the opportunity means that the commission makes a second report and, meanwhile, that the Council of Ministers is actively involved in the drafting of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9430	And the concession commission that had an earlier obligation to prepare things.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9431	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9432	Thank you. I think we can agree on a real situation compared to the chances that this initiative will pass. So here I propose that we reach a conclusion and that this law be returned to the competent commission in order to form a new report with the mandatory inclusion of the resolution ministry, i.e. the Council of Ministers and the Commission for concessions. Who's to this conclusion? Vote now. With 28 votes in favour of, 1 against, 7 abstentions, sufficient entity majority, the law was returned to the Commission for the re-making of reports with the obligation to include the ministry, i.e. the Council of Ministers and the Commission for concessions. Moving to point 26. Before we go to point 26. Let's see what the mood is like for a break. Do you want to work for at least half an hour? Half an hour, let's do another half hour, please. So we move to point 26. We're going to point 26. While we're on the run, please. Point 26. 39 Ad.26. Proposal for a Higher Education Law in BiH with Constitutional and Legal Commission Report So, the proposer of this law is also the Council of Ministers of BiH. It was delivered in procedure on 15 June 2006. The 81st session adopted a request for a procedure, shortened by Article 104. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission was delivered on 21 June. As competent, the Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a report on the opening of the Public Hearing on the Proposal for Law and the Report, we finally have a report from the committee responsible since 14 September. So, I hope you have this all that I'm talking about. So this is about a negative report from the committee in charge. The situation is next. So, we're pleading on the report. If the House adopts this report, the bill is definitely considered rejected. If the report of the committee responsible is not adopted, the House will ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines that we should establish here and which are determined by the conclusion. Here's what I had to say in the introduction. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9434	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, it is again a very important law when it comes to life in BiH, it is about the Law on Higher Education. Of course, when it comes to international obligations that BiH has on its European path. We are now in a situation where we can only do one thing that I think would be justified to do at this point, which is to vote against the Commission's reports and thus preserve this law in our lives and try again on the commission to consider these issues which, and in the Commission's report itself, have been hard to agree, practically impossible, but I think this is the only way if we want to save even in this form and in this phase of the Law in Parliament and try to make another effort to pass this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9435	Thank you very much. Is there any further discussion? If he doesn't, and of course he does. You haven't answered. So please sign in. Mr. Denis Bećirović, Martin Raguž. Is there anyone else? There isn't. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9436	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, given that this item of the agenda is named as the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education with this report, I suppose I have the opportunity to say something about this law. Of course, the first thing the SDP Club wants at this session is to ask the question why has this law not been adopted so far? So, the Law on Higher Education, which has been spoken of for at least 4 years, has not yet been adopted in the BiH Parliament. Here we are now entering the fifth year of the new term and I am asking this for the reason that most of the parties that were ruling parties in the previous term are also in the new term and it is time for us to here in the BiH Parliament to ask the most serious question of responsibility for the work of both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers and all in this country. I would like to remind you that in 2004, 2005 and 2006, the Ministry of Civil Affairs spent 16.3 million converts of BiH taxpayers. Over 20 million marks in the last four years. This year's budget envisions 9.4 million marks. And today, when we discuss the Law on Higher Education, unfortunately at the beginning we have one bad message. We don't have a former minister of civil affairs or current minister of civil affairs today. And they're supposed to be the first ones here to lobby to get this bill today. Of course, that doesn't seem to concern them. There's no responsibility I was talking about. And how it's gonna be if we don't want to reward the same people by giving them other ministries. Unfortunately, such a state of the Council of Ministers is also a reflection of these ruling coalitions in this country. We're investing huge funds, and we don't have the key laws in this country, we don't have the Higher Education Act, etc. We believe that the adoption of the Law on Higher Education in BiH is an obstacle to the need of BiH, all its citizens and peoples, especially young people in this country. Besides, it's a promise made to the Peace Implementation Council. This is also defined through the Strategy against Poverty. This is also the realisation of BiH's international obligations by signing the Bologna Declaration of European Ministers of Painting, as well as the signing and ratification of the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications of Higher Education in the European region. In the Law on Higher Education, in Article 2, I think it would be good to supplement, here where it is said that high education is an activity,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9437	Mr. Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9438	This is our first chance to talk about it 41.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9439	Mr. Denis, this law is in the final stage and... the debates are over.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9440	Okay, well, then I won't really talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9441	(distant from microphone)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9442	The man spoke more of other things and at least of the law, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9443	I'm just talking about the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9444	Wait a minute, here you go. I'm talking about the phase we're in. I think the MPs have been discussing it for days and months here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9445	Mr. Belkić, may I continue?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9446	It's just procedural. Of course. We have a negative report from the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9447	So I'm talking about the need to adopt this law and express my dissatisfaction with why it hasn't been adopted yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9448	Of course. Here's a chance to adopt him.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9449	Now, I'm going to skip this part that applies to a particular part of the law on individual members and chapters. But in the end, I want to skip the whole part, say, that we are the only one, I think the only European state that doesn't have the Higher Education Act. I, too, want to remind the SDP here, as an opposition party, reminds, therefore, the ruling coalition in this House that, among other things, when they signed the 3 January programme goals, what they would do in the next four years, as one of their programme priorities, they cited and signed to speed up education reform in BiH. 42 So, we in the SDP today want to see how you and on this issue realize what you have signed and promised to the citizens and peoples of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9450	Thank you. Just in order. Just in order, please, just a little bit, Mr. Bahtić. So we have the Bahtić replica, Zorić replica, Mr. Raguž, discussion. So we have two replicas of Bahtić, Zorić and Raguž discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9451	There's a few things. He repeats the SDP a few times, the SDP, he says there's some kind of trouble here. Gentlemen, the typical example of unhappiness in this House is SDP President Zlatko Lagumdžija, you see he came today, he just shows up and always leaves. Now, that's a very responsible thing, he's a bit of a pain in the ass and responsibility. He's a member of the Budget and Finance Commission, never came, and he receives fees. If we're so that, yes, you know, then here who cares about the law, who cares about the work. Gentlemen of the SDP are only obstructions, and when it comes to doing something, then they are the most throatful, when it comes to the number one in this House, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9452	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9453	So I don't want to talk to her about what my predecessor was talking about. He's famous for reporting for replication, and when a man doesn't say anything, he has a stored replica that he showed us at the previous session. Today, he was reporting for a replica, whether or not he had read at least the Rules of Procedure would have seen that it could not be replicated, whether, when asking questions, it was an initiative. But that's his problem. I've got a business, so I'm talking to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9454	I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9455	In accordance with Article 70(1) and (2) I would ask you to read them again. It's very clear what can be corrected in replication. So neither did the predecessor speak of any injury to the Rules of Procedure, nor of not keeping the agenda, nor did he correct a single quote that I was talking about. So I would ask you, as chairman, to hold this House to the dignity of this House and not to allow it to be discussed beyond the Rules of Procedure that we all need to work on. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9456	Of course, of course, sir. Wait a minute, Mr. Bahtić, please sit down. Well, sit down, please. Let's take our turn, Mr. Bahtić. Well, there's a replica before you reported it. Let me run this session. And Mr. Bećirević, just a minute, let me run this session. Mr. Bećirević, the replica was on your work-and-work statements. You've been dealing with the previous minister, you've been dealing with the ministries, etc. You're out of the Rules of Procedure, we're on a statement about the commission so much further, but good. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9457	Well, I was just about to say, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9458	So, I have an understanding absolutely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9459	Read the Rules of Procedure to Mr. and colleague Bećirović. Because he can't ask questions to MPs, especially not to ex-legislators. And his first line is that he would ask why the law wasn't passed. I don't have to tell anyone why I voted for some law, against some law, or I was abstention in the vote. You colleagues have no right to ask a representative. That's what you need to learn. And the other thing is that exactly what you said, that's what I was going to say, we can't show ourselves today whether we're for reforming education, we can accept the Commission's report and the law is going down, or we can accept the conclusion that we're going back to the commission and we can keep the conclusion. There's nothing else we can do today. Therefore, although we often attack ministers why they are not here and their deputies, they have nothing to defend here today, because it is only about whether the law has failed or continues the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9460	Thank you, Zorić. All I ask is that as long as possible, of course, hold back, I will give everyone my word. We were doing great today, at least I think, in one tolerated atmosphere. And I ask for your understanding and for my help in the work. Here's only the order, Mr. Križanović. So we have the Bahtić, do we have the replica? On the line again, but stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9461	Respected, infused, young, Mr. Bećirević. Let me tell you that I read this Rules of Procedure very much because of you from the SDP. And you read that Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9462	Thank you very much, Mr. Bećirević, right, so Mr. Križanović. Oh, I'm sorry, these are all replicas, Mr. Raguž. Is it all that replica? Okay. Mr. Bešlagić, what's with you?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9463	I didn't, I didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9464	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9465	I'll make the announcement.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9466	I didn't see it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9467	I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9468	I wish to tell Mr Zorić that every man in this country, and not just every MP, has the right to ask what was done during a certain period and why not.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9469	Absolutely, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9470	Therefore, the remark on why this is being put here in Parliament is completely absurd to me, and to Mr Bahtić to say that if you allow him to use insults beyond this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9471	I won't allow it, Mr. Bećirević, be sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9472	Well, obviously, uh, you've now silenced the insults here in Parliament. Then allow this
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9473	I didn't hear what he said.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9474	Let's talk maybe in a different way.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9475	Mr. Bahtić, I'm really asking you, just, you won't get the word anymore. Here you go, Raguž. You won't get a word more, Mr. Bahtić. Mr. Križanović, is it a replica or is it, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9476	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a deal here, so how we're doing on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9477	Well, we're working on the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9478	On the agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education in BiH with Report
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9479	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9480	Constitutional-legal commissions, commissions. So, we can discuss the law and, depending on what kind of debate it is here, we'll determine, uh, acceptance, or non-acceptance, commission reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9481	Thanks for the intervention, thanks for the intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9482	Just don't limit the debate on this law. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9483	We won't limit it. Thanks for the intervention. Here you go, Mr. Raguž, a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9484	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I signed up for the debate and on behalf of the HDZ 1990, I want to make it clear that today we need to think very carefully about how to determine ourselves according to this report. I don't think we have the space, no matter what we're at the start of this House of Representatives' term, to reject the law regardless of all its weaknesses. I think that today we should think about opening up space for a new report and having this country get a law and reform of higher education within a short time period and show at the beginning of this mandate that we can bite one such piece. I will, in that sense, say the following, if we reject the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report, then we should suggest certain guidelines which are why we reject it and within which this new report should be moved. I've been taking a lot of part in making this bill and I'm going to say one direction without which I think you shouldn't even think that this law can go back to real procedure. It is a matter of funding that is not mentioned at all in this law. We're in the 21st century on the threshold of Europe, we want reform, we want the Bologna Process. We have implemented all reforms almost in the financial sector: indirect taxation, a single rate, VAT, a single account, and this country has not yet provided for a single mark by law to invest in science, in young people, education in this country. I think that the question deserves, uh, a thorough determination and I don't think that there should be a chance for compromise and that those positions that have been so far should not be an obstacle to at least one part of that funding being used from those funds and showing good faith in that one important issue. It is also worth the questions of natural lending, licensing and this contribution that I want to make on behalf of this club and the party is, therefore, that we will open for at least one month or limit to a month, to include the Council of Ministers, to include all clubs and this, to come, within these guidelines, to a legal solution that can be acceptable, which will give this country a reference to be able to implement this reform and to show to those young people that we can cross that one important step, here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9485	Okay, thank you. Mr. Živković signed up for the discussion. Any more reported for discussion? Thank you. There's still Mr. Novaković. Thank you. We have two more debaters.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9486	47 Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Aware of the fact that this is a very important issue, as Mr Bećirović said, and that I attended a public debate attended by BiH academics, and talked seriously and professionally about this law. I would single out just a few of the discussions they cited, which is that this is a formalist law, that it's a politicized law especially in the domain of the board of directors and national representation, that jurisdiction is questionable because the state is involved here through the Ministry of Civil Affairs, that the law is general because it requires some provisions to regulate statutes and entities, to affirm nationalism, not professionalism. And we see that there are at least two segments of the problem here, one of those political issues concerning and the jurisdiction of this law, not to say that some of the people coming from Mostar University were at all asking the question of the constitutionality of the adoption of this law, and one that is called professional, which, for example, only in some points, is that in conflict with the Labour Law, where labour status and academic status should be separated, is not listed in the law as the final first degree, for example, an engineer or a graduate engineer. That there is no recognition of a degree that is not, and the Lisbon Convention is not respected. That there should be a classification of magazines, that there is a legal void. It's only four years from now that the doctorate study begins, etc., etc. Obviously, we have a lot to talk about and this professional work, and that we should and can agree on, and therefore I think that this law should remain in life in any case, but that there is a lot of work to be done about what Mr. Raguž was talking about financing higher education, but also how much of the licenses, especially in light of the emerging situations, where in one part of our country colleges are closing down, diplomas cancel out, does not mean that there is no such problem in another part of BiH, but obviously there was no courage to open the problem. I think this way, when we get this law back, we have a chance to talk about it, about everything I've been saying, together.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9487	Thank you, Mr. Živković. We still have Mr. Novaković, so let's get this straight. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9488	You see, I've heard so far in the discussions of one of the guidelines this House proposes to the Commission, which means that it is in the light of a review of this report, of course, provided that this report does not receive the support of the House. I have to say, if that direction is based on the amendments proposed by the Club in 1990, then it wasn't that club, but colleagues from that club, I can't support that direction. So I can't vote that this is a guideline to the House, or that this is 48 suggestions from the commission by the Home. It is clear that those who suggest here must give, must give the commission guidance. I'm a member of that committee, and I expect this House to say what are the factors or elements that I have to take care of on the commission. Because I took care of one. But if those guidelines are just to come or try to get to the law the way he entered the parliamentary procedure, and we know how he came from the Council of Ministers. So, without the agreement of the Serbian people's ministers. Then those guidelines don't make sense. So, I think that here the Dom should give such guidance as will enable, so to get to the law, not the guidelines that they will have, to be in the function of forcing those who were opposed to thinking differently now. Because it really doesn't make sense then.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9489	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. I don't believe anyone here discusses how to commit some kind of coercion, etc. I understand that, Mr. Raguž, it does not go in the direction of concrete solutions in terms of concrete, but it goes in the direction of indications that the financing problem should be specified and resolved. This will be decided by this House, commission, procedure, etc. I think we need to point out these three issues, so funding, licensing, accreditation, etc. and recommend to the Commission through Council of Ministers consultations, etc. to adhere to European standards and finally solve things exactly the way, how these things regulate European standards. That's one option. The second option, Mr. Novaković, is that this report, practically, we accept this one today and return to the very beginning. So, I'm inclined to ask you not to accept this report today, to return it to the commission, with a recommendation to reconsider all the circumstances we've discussed here. So also funding, accreditation, licensing, and within 30 days we get a new report back. Including the opportunity for all interested to join the Council of Ministers, entities, etc. Here's what we can say about this conclusion. Prepare for
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9490	First you have to vote to drop the report to take
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9491	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, sorry. So, first we vote on the report. I call on us not to accept this report practically. Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. I'm asking you to let me run the session. So answer the word and ask. So, we will vote on the report with recommendations, along with the recommendations, that the commission review the law and make a new report, and 49 recommendations refer to these three things that I was talking about. Please, please, vote on the report. Now. The right of MPs. To vote on the report, I didn't say no. It's nothing to me. They voted people and everything's fine. So, with 32 votes against, 3 for and 2 abstentions. The committee's report was rejected. Of course, with enough entity representation. Please. So he's back to the commission. Please, do we agree to take a break now, uh, it was an initiative. Here's a break, please. How long are we gonna take? How much? So we move on to point 27 of today's session is about Ad. 27. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2006.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9495	The president is present.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9496	Sit down, I'm sorry, there's a Mr. Amir Pilav present. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9497	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I also had one reserve in the commission's session according to this report. First of all, considering that the way this report was written is not in line with the adopted single rules which, which we, meaning, we have brought to the last meeting on the one hand, and on the other hand, given what it says in this text, could be more called the report on the problems faced by this complaint office. Of course, all these problems that were written here were standing and that they made it more difficult for this institution to work anyway. But some things, though, are hard to explain. Namely, as we know, this institution was formed on 22.12.2005, meaning by the Parliamentary Assembly decision formed, and only 26.12.2006 did it adopt a regulation on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals. So, for a full year, he was supposed to bring this office a rule book that he was going to work on. Indeed, by respecting all the problems they've had, it's not, this failure can't be considered a result of just objective circumstances, I think there really was one level of lack of engagement for the people who worked there. On the other hand, it is also surprising that here the finding is that this Rules of Procedure had priority over the internal organisation rule. I don't know if it was supposed to justify the non-compliance of this second rule or if it was actually meant to say how, here, and for this other one, we're going to need so much time. That's why I think this report can only be taken to the knowledge. I don't think there's, uh, a statement about him going to put someone in a position to vote for, uh, someone against the report, voting against this report, in fact, it can be understood that someone doesn't want to accept that this office has had problems. And I accept that she has had problems and I think it will be very difficult to solve them in the next period, unless we approach these problems in a completely different way, but also apply the law itself, so if you want some changes in the legal code itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9498	Thank you. Here you go. Šefik, then Mr. Križanović. Is there more?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9499	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as already said here in the discussion of counterpart Novaković, was considering yesterday the report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2006 and I agree that this was more of a report on problems than a report on work but I think the report realistically shows what happened with that institution and in that institution during the last year. And, of course, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has decided to propose to this home to accept the report as it is. The report therefore illustrates the real situation, and of course recommended that something be done urgently to remove this situation or all of the causes that led to the state we had in 2006. These people there for a while weren't actually able to work at all. They didn't have a quorum. They are therefore not certainly responsible, the Council of Ministers and this 52 parliament are responsible. Therefore, those working on the selection of people on the Committee, or in this Council. Therefore, I think that today by adopting this report and adopting this conclusion proposed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we are sending a serious signal to the Council of Ministers to deal with the situation in this institution, which we have produced. So first of all, the Council of Ministers and we here, so Parliament, and at least that institution. That is why I remain, of course, on behalf of the Commission, in the light of this proposal that you received in writing. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9500	Thank you. Mr. Križanović. Mr. Bahtić signed up. Are there any more reported? Mr. Izetbegović. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I fully agree with previous colleagues who said this was more of a problem report. I really have no reason not to question the objectivity of this report. However, what I'm saying is that this parallel in the previous session, too, has, to say, very toleranceally accepted the reasons for moving the deadlines, the entry into force after the formation of the Office of Appeals, on several occasions, and I would like to say that this is more, to say, a report on the relationship and way of working in the Council of Ministers of the Previous Call, than on this particular one, which was simply so brought into an objective difficult situation. With that in mind, I would not spread this story but would react to the formulation, in one part of the formulation of the conclusion of our competent commission. In the last part of the conclusion, it is said, and the above all Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office for the Review of Appeals to take all measures and activities and put in place, you see now, extraordinary efforts to achieve the full functionality of the Office for the Review of Appeals, etc. So this isn't about extraordinary efforts. This is about one normal, responsible behaviour of BiH institutions towards emerging institutions that need to ensure essential working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9502	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Is it a replica to Mr. Džaferović? I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9503	One clarification on Mr. Križanović's discussion. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9504	Here's an explanation for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9505	It's not a replica. I don't need to replicate, but I need to.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9506	But it's not even our practice to explain itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9507	Let me say something, so here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9508	But here's an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9509	Call it, see, if you want... procedural option.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9510	You can, you can, you can let
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9511	So there's no problem with that, then. I think these two words should stand – extraordinary efforts. Therefore, it is the authority of this body to consider complaints about decisions on public procurement from all over BiH. We're not working on this body today on supplies, so there are unsolved items, and I don't know exactly how many, Amire over 400 unsolved items. So over 400 unsolved items. Therefore, an extraordinary effort must be made by the Council of Ministers, in addition to regular efforts, to resolve the matter as soon as possible. For there are uninvolved means, and there are unworkable jobs, and they stand, as they are called, unemployable suppliers. Therefore, it was the objective of the Constitutional and Legal Commission when it proposed this formulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9512	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Let's go, Mr. Bahtić, Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9513	A report on the Office's work to discuss complaints in 2006, the Party's Party for BiH Club discussed this morning and will not support it, for the reason it stands here to report on the Office's unhappiness, perhaps they would vote. Because this office didn't do anything in fact. In practice, I know exactly how much the normal process of working our lives is holding us back. The people there, they were sitting, they weren't working. In my opinion, the Resolute Ministry, the Council of Ministers, so this office has not yet been operational. So, the one in whose jurisdiction it is, the office should bring in the office, so, and you know the Public Procurement Act as it is today, that everyone has the right to complain. Someone complains on purpose, 54 has grounds, no grounds, and this office doesn't work. But a factory or a company can't work because of this office. Therefore, we will not support this office for the 2006 appeal. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9514	Thank you. Mr. Izetbegović. Here, and I'll take your word for it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9515	Therefore, it is concluded that the weak work of the Office has resulted in multiple adverse consequences for the functioning of the users of public funds. And what the Commission proposes next is the least this Parliament should do. So either we need to reject the report or we need to say that we're unhappy with the work and that we're looking for it to increase and strengthen its capacity, that permeable power. It's the least we could do. I think that, however, we should accept the report but that we should ask them to take measures or increase their capacity and simply to pass their power to strengthen it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9516	Thank you, Mr. Izetbegović. Here, if you'll excuse me, I'll say a few sentences too. I agree with most of this, however, I want to point to two aspects. This is not just about this report, but, in my opinion, two very important aspects when it comes to the functioning of BiH institutions. I am also inclined to say, immediately, to the approach Mr. Novaković has, that we should accept this as a report, rather than accept it as a report, so as to send a kind of message that this is not a report after all. So if you looked closely, we're talking about people's responsibilities when it comes to appointments. Of course, I'm going to ask Mr. Pilav if these people have been compensated and how much these fees have been. If you looked closely, people were appointed, so immediately after a month or two they submitted resignations, Jasminka pucati, Blago Bošnjak. The rest were only Amir Pilav, Kasim Bajramović, and later Dragica Miletić resigned, etc., so it's all about people who carry certain important functions in this country. So they were appointed, they resigned after a month or two, etc. So the question here is who and by what criteria is decided for people who resign after two months and how paid these people are. That's one thing. Secondly, you saw that there were millions of marks in the budget for the work of this office in 2006. So it's not that small, a million marks. That it was spent, though, 320 grand. So the costs go. The question of the cost-effectiveness of these costs is raised. The cost-effectiveness of investment from the budget. And the question of the capacity and competence of the institutions that we are establishing opens. 55 So the work here does not end when we pass the law, regulation, etc. and set up that institution. We really need to get things serious and the relationship to the reports we get. Therefore, I, pointing to these few things, am also inclined to take this into account, and to really send a message to the Council of Ministers whether it will be an extraordinary, extraordinary or regular, normal effort, it is less important, but that work must be done. Here, thank you so much. Here, he answered,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9517	Can I go before you?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9518	Here comes Mr. Živković, just one moment, Mr. Pilav.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9519	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, we had a agenda point before that report on the work of the State Regulatory Agency for Electricity and no one had any objections to that report. I'll remind you, it's this book. We can't allow it here in Parliament, in the same way it's two different things, it means the same thing, and we're doing the Work Report, in a few ways it's done here. How much, it doesn't matter how important the work methodology is. We can't compare this book and the book we got from the Board of Appeal, which stopped on three pages. This is unserious, the way the report was done showed that the people who were there, they were working, they took their job unseriously. We in Parliament cannot work in this way. And there's a methodology that, if the people who work on this aren't familiar with it, please let the agenda point that we've done before, look at the way the report is written. About people having problems, that's obvious. They need to be taken seriously and should be helped to solve the problem. But they also need to know that when it comes to Parliament that the methodology and the way in which the report is submitted must be according to what has been done so far. Therefore, I am also of the opinion that this should be taken into account, that we are not currently deciding on the Report because there is a great chance of being rejected and that we should see how these people should be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9520	Thank you very much. Here's a word, and if none of the MPs are present, the chairman of the Board of Appeals, Dr. Amir Pilav, called. Here you go, Mr. Pilav.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9521	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, or MPs, of the very report on the work of the Board of Appeals, it is evident that this institution has faced a rare amount of problems recently seen in BiH institutions. I'm going to try to give a little chronology here, and I'd like to ask you to have an understanding of everything that's been going on in this period, and what's happened here is, well, I'm getting circumstances. Therefore, the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, which took effect in November 2004, provided for the establishment of an Office for the Review of Appeals within 3 months of the entry into force of the Law. However, you can see that there have been multiple amendments to the Public Procurement Act, that the prolonged establishment of the Office for the Review of Appeals and, finally, only at the end of December 2005, was appointed the first 5 members of the Office of 6, as far as the law provides. Therefore, at the time of appointment of the first members of the Office, not all 6 members are appointed as provided for under the law. All of these five members at the time of appointment were in a working relationship with other institutions and at that time, therefore, when the decision was published in the Official Messenger of BiH, there was no decision on salaries at all or the possibility that these people could even establish a working relationship during that period as stated by the decision. The Council of Ministers made a decision on the salaries of the 9th February, and it was signed, signed and delivered to the Board of Appeal only on 23 May 2006. Therefore, during that period, when defacto, when members of the Office who were appointed could begin to exercise labour rights, at that moment, 3 members of the Office of Review resigned and 2 other members simply, by law, had no quorum to decide, could not make any decision in the appeal procedure under the Law on Public Procurement, because the decision required a minimum of 4 votes, or 4 members, to make such a decision. As for the resignations that followed from the members, I would now not comment on why these resignations occurred. It was mostly written to be submitted for health reasons, for reasons of personal nature. However, 2 members of the Office who remained immediately following the resignations of the previous chairman's office, Mrs Dragica Miletić, informed the Parliamentary Assembly on 17 May 2006 and requested urgent measures. Following a statement by the Parliamentary Assembly on these resignations, it was only the end of July 2006, and the decision on the resolution adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly was published in the Official Messenger of BiH, which I think was published on 14 August 2006. Only then did the Office get the conditions to formally initiate the procedure for the appointment of new members of the Office because it was not known whether resignations would be accepted by then. I would say here, one fact, in fact, I would say one piece of information, which is when all three of these members of the Board of Appeal were resigned, a meeting of the 57 Public Procurement Agency was held under the Law on Public Procurement of BiH. And, at that meeting, it was discussed the measures that I had taken to prevent a complete blockade of the system. Here I would also like to add the fact you can see from the report that those amendments to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH were designed to establish the jurisdiction of the Office. It means his decision to appeal only since 1.04.2006. And since that date, they have begun to arrive at the Office of Appeals which have been declared in accordance with the law. So, at the moment when the Office's jurisdiction was established by law, which is since 1.04, the Office had no quorum at the time because first these two members resigned at the end of March, and then later the situation became even worse, but which did not change much on the situation because with three or two members, however, the Office had no quorum, could not make any decision. And, therefore, I would return to the session, which I mentioned, the Committee of the Public Procurement Agency, on that occasion I proposed to make the only reasonable solution that was possible at that time, however, that my proposal was not accepted, and it consisted in the following. It was true that the members of the Office resigned, however, I suggested that the Parliamentary Assembly be proposed to reach a conclusion and to oblige the members of the Office who resigned, to work until the moment until new members of the Board of Appeal were appointed. However, my proposal
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9522	Mr. Pilav, you're bringing him in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9523	My proposal was not accepted and then it began with that procedure for Parliament to declare its resignations. Parliament has declared its resignations, they have been adopted. Mostly, two new members were subsequently appointed and the appointment of Ms Nikoline Silak as the fourth member was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" which came out on 19 September 2006. So from that date, we were only then able to make decisions from the Office's jurisdiction. The reference that was put here, that the Rules of Procedure was made in December, must be seen from this angle, so it was only since 19 September that it was possible to make any decisions and at the moment when the quorum was set, there were several paths that could have been made. So already at that point there were over 460 seized complaints. There was no rules of procedure on which they would be dealt with, and we decided on the only possible solution, which is to try to solve in walking gradually all the problems we encountered. So we first decided to start immediately with complaints received after September 19th and decided directly on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Administrative Procedure. However, the provisions of that law are not sufficiently adapted to the 58 procedure itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9524	Mr. Pilav, I think that this has become less and less known in the report and you're not helping us to understand practically what the problems of this office are and what needs to be done to make things better. So, you heard that the debate showed a reserve according to this report, you heard Parliament's concerns. You need to tell me what the solution is. We have read, etc., what should be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9525	I'd say the Office has achieved significant results in this time. The fact is, by the end of 2006, 158 complaints were resolved. Over 310 have been solved so far. I think that's a significant result. And it may be a real happiness that the appointment of the last member or fourth member was carried out at the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly, because if it hadn't been done then, the Office would not be in a position to function today because it would not have had that minimum quorum. Mr. Chairman, if you'd like me to give you this information that you asked about the fees, I'm willing to expose it if it's of interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9526	We'll ask for it extra, no need now. Are you done? Thank you very much. Here we heard the chairman of the Board of Appeals. Are there any more debaters? So we're in the next situation, we have two approaches. One approach is to follow the proposal of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which suggests that we accept the report with this conclusion that I have just read to you and another approach is to receive this report as one type of state information in the Office. Of course, I don't mind, I don't know, Mr. Novaković, you suggested that this proposal be accepted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to be asked by the Council of Ministers, etc. So, we have that, that combination, instead of accepting the report, of receiving knowledge with the conclusion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Šefik, can we go that way? To receive information that we have consent. Here, who is for this proposal, therefore, to receive information on the conclusion or recommendation of the Constitutional and Legal Commission? Vote now. With 28 votes for, 7 abstentions, enough entity majority, we have received this report with the conclusion or recommendation of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. 59 Here, yes, intervention, so let's do it again, then do you insist we repeat the vote. Here, here, let me say it again. Don't you worry, you're not okay. Here, here, please, the man intervenes, I suggest that we repeat the vote after all. Please prepare. And vote now. Now. Who pressed this red? So, with 27 votes for, one against and six abstentions. We have received this report with the conclusion, i.e. the recommendation of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Thank you very much, thank you very much. Moving to point 29. Ad. 29. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the conclusion of Parliamentarian Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal for a road map for the return of the so-called Algerian group from Guantanamo. You've received a report on the alignment. You see, unfortunately, no consent has been reached. We are practically now in accordance with the Rules of Procedure going to the second round of voting. So, practically, those who are against, against, the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9527	Please, nice. We vote together. Again from the beginning. But the voices are against, the ones who determine the fate of this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9528	So, please, we all vote. So, then, then, there's no need to stress at all. I don't know what we've been stressing so far. So let's vote. So let him vote who he wants. So, please, please prepare for the vote. Vote now. Now, let's see where those seven come from. And they had these green ones. Against. The report got the required majority. There's not much of an entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9529	No, no, no, these are votes against. You have from Federation 2 in Republika Srpska 5 60
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9530	Not enough against the votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9531	And it was supposed to be 10 or 19, so it's over.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-15-0.u9532	That's right. So, I get it, I get it. There was a second circle. So I find that the conclusion has been adopted and adopted. There's no 10 against the RS, no one-third of the Federation against. Thank you very much. He can list, of course, right away. It's already ready to list, Mr. Lagumdžija. Let's go to point 30. Let's go to point 30. Ad. 30. Appointment of three members of the House of Representatives in the Ad-hok Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the BiH Ombudsman It is our obligation to run, that is, to appoint three members. We've established a candidate proposal at the Expansive College. So it's about Mr. Niki Lozančić, drag Kalabić and Azra Hadžiahmetović. Any other suggestions? Can we get to the bottom of this proposal? Please prepare to vote. And vote, vote, now. With 24 votes for, 2 against, 7 abstentions with a sufficient entity majority. I agree that in the ad-hok commission for the election of the BiH Ombudsman, namely, Mr Niko Lozančić, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Mr Kalabić were elected. We're going to the next item on the agenda. So it's about 31. It's about Ad. 31. Appointing members of permanent committees, i.e. fill seats in commissions instead of MPs who have suspended their mandate
