ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u230	I'm asking the MPs to put the cards in their intended place. .... Representatives of the media and NGOs, I warmly welcome you and open the 5th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All present outside the parliamentary bench one apology for the delay, because the Constitutional Commission worked a little longer, and then we left time for the Secretary of the Constitutional Commission to prepare materials that are still on the agenda today. There are 13 MPs present at the session. Two MPs, representative Dušanka Majkić and representative Branko Zrno, are on the official road. As you are informed, for legitimate reasons on the agenda, we have removed the points under regular number 5 and 9 that you have in the agenda that you received before the session. So for today's session, I suggest the following, amended agenda, which lacks these two points that you received earlier with the invitation. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Citizenship of BiH will not be discussed because this law has not previously been discussed by the House of Representatives and will not be discussed the draft law supplementing the Law on the Defence of BiH, whose proposing representative is Slobodan Šaraba, because the competent commission has postponed its statement on this bill because they have asked for the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH. So the agenda is below the point, 1. Answers to parliamentary questions and parliamentary questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes with the 3rd and 4th sessions of the House of Peoples; 3rd. Request by the MPs to consider the draft law supplementing the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer, representative of Slobodan Šaraba; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft foreign exchange framework law in BiH following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act (first reading); 2 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Market Control Act (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act in BiH (first reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of an account of old foreign exchange savings (first reading) – Proposer: House of Representatives; 9. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2006; 10. Report on the work of the Board of Appeal in 2006; 11. A report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the Committee for the Protection of Personal Data for 2006; 12. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2006; 13. Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2006; 14. Report on the work of the Central Election Commission for 2006; 15. Report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for 2006; 16. Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the audit carried out for 2005 by the following institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina: - BiH State Service Agency, - BiH Foreign Investment Agency, - BiH Agency for Labour and Employment, - BiH Statistics Agency, - BiH Archives, - BiH State Agency for Mine Removing BiH, - BiH Central Bank, - BiH Civil Aviation Directorate, - Directorate for the European Integration of BiH, - Directorate for the Implementation of the CIPS Project, - BiH State Investigation and Protection Agency, - BiH State Border Services, - BiH Central Bank, - BiH Civil Aviation Fund, - The BiH Council's Central Secretariat - The BiH Ombudsman for Human Rights, - the Institute for Accreditation of BiH - the Institute for the Accreditation of BiH - the Institute for Standards, Monitoring and Intellectual Property of BiH, - the Public Secretariat of the BiH Council of BiH, - the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury of Human Rights of BiH, - the Ministry of BiH, - the Ministry of Human Rights of BiH - the Ministry of BiH, the Foreign Affairs and Security of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH - the Republic of BiH - the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH - the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH - the Europeans of BiH, the Europeans of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006; 18. Consideration of the candidate list for the selection of the main auditor and the deputy chief auditor; 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Social Security Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia; 20. Giving consent to ratify the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement on International Registration of Industrial Design; 21. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on Police Cooperation; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro on the simplified process of human and goods traffic at the border crossings Uvac – Uvac and Ustibar – Vagan; 23. Giving consent to ratifying the border crossings agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro on Border Transport; 25. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Air Transport between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania; 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Italy in the fight against organised crime; 27. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on Security Cooperation; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Energy Reconstruction Project II; 29. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office of the European Police (EUROPOL); 30. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal; 4 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia amending the Agreement between the Government of BiH, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters; 32. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the fields of education, science and culture; 33. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Economic Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary; 34. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on cooperation in the area of crime control; 35. Granting consent to ratify the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of France on the reading of persons with unlawful status and the Protocol on the application of the Agreement; 36. Appointment of members of the Committee for the Selection of the Texts of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 37. A report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 01.03.2006 to 31.01.2007. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? If there are no amendments and additions, the agenda has been adopted and therefore, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, Article 60 does not vote. Moving to point 1, that's, ad.1. Agents' questions and answers So far, I've had one in writing asked a representative question. There is no answer to any parliamentary questions raised earlier. So, in accordance with Article 145 of our Rules of Procedure, we will have to slowly start using our Rules of Procedure literally, to deliver here questions in writing. And I now ask Mr. Rančić, president of the Bosniak People's Club to ask his question. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u232	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of article 144. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I ask the BiH Council of Ministers the following delegation question; the Budget Law of the BiH Institutions and the International Obligations of BiH for 2007, on behalf of the cost of renting for the accommodation of BiH institutions, is scheduled to amount to 16,206,000 KM, which is 5 increase by 1,823,018 KM compared to 2006. So we have a negative trend. Trends in the cost of renting. Given the existence of a large number of state-owned and entity-owned properties, I find it inappropriate that this amount of funds be allocated to the BiH institutions and that it is necessary to place state-owned institutions in real estate or to build buildings by the state. So, the question is, what will the Council of Ministers do to reduce the cost of renting in 2008 in such a way as to place state institutions in state-owned buildings or build new buildings through capital investment? Thank you very much. I don't insist if the Council of Ministers can now give an oral response, okay, and if not, so can the written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u233	Is there any desire from the Council of Ministers to respond or are we going to get it in writing? Thank you to my esteemed colleague, Rančić. So we're going to look in writing for an answer. Dear colleague Ivo Miro Jović, please. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u234	I thank the Honorable President and the Presidency, the honourable envoys, today I'm a little richer with questions, I have two, three. I've given up on some of them so they won't be too hard for those who need to prepare answers. One of the issues I have prepared is the Council of Ministers of BiH, the BiH Presidency and all the public in BiH. We know that these days in the United States, at the request of the administration there, Mr Silajdžić and Mr Dodik met and that two members of the presidency left the order of the Serb and Bosniak people. The part of BiH's citizens, whose name I can speak here, accepts such work as it exposes BiH's policy to the Bosniak and Serb parts at the expense of the third Croatian people. Why did this delegation not go to this meeting of a member of the BiH presidency in the order of the Croatian people? It also raises further doubts, as in the current similar situations, a member of the Croatian people's presidency would be jailed. But that's why there was an announcement by the High Representative this morning, and while this is happening in America, the Croatian champions are being arrested in Mostar. Yesterday the High Representative announced, and here it is today. So in conversation, before this meeting, this meeting here, with a respected university professor, I told him what's going on down in Mostar? Because I didn't know six first thing this morning. He says he doesn't want Mate in the woods but he wants to go to Prjun, he wants to go to jail. That's the first question, the second question with an explanation. The second question was, on April 22nd, at the Catholic cemetery in Doc near Travnik, excavations were made from unknown persons and in one day, according to the official... people who could look at it from the end, 14 people were found, and it was planned to, it was a mass grave to find two to three remains of the killed Hrvat civilians who were liquidated by members of the BiH Army. Why is this job done, it's a question of the Federation of BiH government, without the presence of security services, media and representatives of the International Community, and what about the remains of these people? And one question to the Council of Ministers. Why hasn't the Council of Ministers appointed members of the Management Board of the Missing Persons Institute in BiH so far? And it is known that the contest for this completion was completed in July of last year. Here, it's been a year for such an important commission to be appointed, to work, so I don't ask this question to the government of the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u235	I thank my esteemed colleague Jović. Any new parliamentary questions? I find that we have no further questions. It may be helpful to remind once again of all those to whom this home is directed, representatives of this home of questions, to answer these questions in a timely manner. The issues are mostly directed towards the Council of Ministers. It's not always the Council of Ministers, it's also some other bodies, so the government that are obliged to answer this question. But please pass it on to Mr. Špirić, this home requires answers to all questions. So we didn't get any answers from last session. Thank you very much for listening to what I asked. We're going to go to point 2. Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd and 4th meetings of the House of Peoples First, we're going to adopt the 3rd session. Is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea for the 3rd session. Who's in? We'll vote on the charts. Who's in? I agree that we have not yet obtained the conditions that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we are applying the electronic voting method. Because in accordance with Article 76, paragraph 4 of our Rules of Procedure, you do not have a Croatian language here, so we do not vote electronically. 7 Now, please, let us now declare the record of the 4th session of the House of Peoples. Is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea. Who's in? I also find that we unanimously accepted the fourth session's record. It's point three, Ad. 3. Request by the MPs to consider the draft law supplementing the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures, under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Proposer is a representative of the Slobodan Šaraba
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u238	Mr. Jusuf Halilagić, Secretary of Justice. Gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman. The proposal was prepared by the BiH Justice Ministry, but after the change of the Council of Ministers, all these laws were returned. We'll probably have a proposal to amend and supplement this law in the course of the week, about the same content.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u239	What does that mean if it's the same content?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u240	Well, we'll have a similar content. After all, this proposal was prepared by the Ministry of Justice earlier, we are likely to propose with small fences a proposal to amend and supplement this law, approximately in an identical, similar text. Otherwise, this proposal for amending and supplementing the law was proposed in the Justice Ministry's work programme for this year. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u241	My question comes down to whether there is anything harmful in the bill's proposal, or harmful in the proposal for a request to vote on this proposal without amendments to the urgency procedure. That's the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u242	I think we should have a debate so we don't have to go for an amendment and an addition to the law by a hasty procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u243	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u244	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u245	So, we heard the opinion of the Resolute Ministry. So, the suggestion is that it goes into a regular procedure, not to adopt it without debate. But I'm obliged to put it to a vote. Is there a need for you, sir, you're the promoter, you don't. Thank you very much. So, I will now put to the vote whether we should consider the law under Article 122, therefore, by a hasty procedure without debate or that, if it were rejected, the law was not rejected but it goes into regular procedure. So, suggestions from the department's resolute ministry that the law goes into regular procedure. But I ask, who is it for this request that he go by haste procedure? Who's in? Who's against it? We'll count it. Who's restrained? So two are abstentions. The law goes into regular procedure. It's point four, Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a law on the framework for foreign exchange operations of BiH, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples 9 We have debated whether the law should be considered according to a shortened procedure. I would like to inform you, the House of Representatives has adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law. Who's answering for a word? We vote whether the law will be considered in a shortened procedure. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? Three against, four against, just a little bit, four against. We don't have an entity majority. And we should go to an agreement, which means we're going to vote right now, just a little bit, this is a short cut, so here, there's no agreement that this goes in a short procedure rather than that, that it goes in a regular procedure. I'll put it to the vote, so this proposal, I don't have, so it goes to regular procedure according to the Rules of Procedure. So we don't have to make a statement about it. So this law goes into regular procedure because there is no entity majority. It's point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act is the first reading
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u251	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidents, the honourable MPs, since this law, which is before you today, is a law which did not explain to the Council of Ministers, that 12 is a law proposed by the House of Representatives, I think Mr Gligorić, from the aspect of our ministry, we stand at the point that this law, in principle, cannot be accepted, in this way, that it is economically unsustainable, that it threatens the country's macroeconomic stability and that our proposal, if it wants to be respected, is a real ministry, me as a minister, not to be accepted. I am, by the way, taking the opportunity to know that we have made certain changes to this law in front of the Council of Ministers, referred it to the House of Representatives' proposal, where we have respected certain principles in the case of the Court of Human Rights, when it comes to the deadlines, when it comes to providing additional funds for the settlement of the old foreign savings account. Since I've had several meetings with associations of old foreign currency savings, and since I've come to the conclusion that a number of people aren't technically familiar with some of the things being treated by law, we've agreed to extend that meeting. Me and the chairman of the Council of Ministers held a meeting with all associations yesterday, meaning the BiH Savings Central Association. We formed a working group to pass through the law in the next 30 days, quite certain that there is a certain space, that the deadline for the return of old foreign savings can be reduced, but that there are certain parameters that must be respected and there is no pay-off of ad hoc, which is, in some way, trying to, that someone, as the people would say, open the bag and return the old foreign savings. It's a lot of misunderstandings. What we've been up to, to determine the final amount of old foreign savings, that's the verification process that I don't think has an alternative, we're in that position. All the anomalies that have occurred in this procedure, and if there are crimes, I absolutely believe I share your opinion. We support being sanctioned, but until all this is determined, I don't think that's what we should talk about. Here, in this way, this is our approach and suggestion, meaning that this modeality is denied, not accepted as such, and that we are going through this procedure that we have already referred to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u252	Thank you very much, dear Minister Vrankić. We have heard, therefore, the opinion of the resolution ministry regarding this law that has raised a lot of dust throughout BiH. I'm opening a debate on the report. Here you go, Mr. Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u253	Oh, here, I think yesterday's meeting that you had, for us, for decision-making, is extremely important. From what I understand, the Council of Ministers has reached some sort of agreement with associations or representatives of people who are looking for their money back. I think our today should be in that position, therefore, that we, by our decision, allow the deal to be realised. There are two options ahead of us. We have a proposal from the commission that says the law is falling, therefore, that the law is rejected. 13 And there is another option for us to return the law to the Commission, if this law that is possible here to make a change and that the commission within 30 days, 60 days, what we and the College have talked about, eventually make changes to the existing proposal that we already have, which has passed, so that we can adopt it in a form that is acceptable to all. So it would be useful for us, in my opinion, to have the minister tell us what it is, which of these two options is more useful to the Council of Ministers, to keep a positive environment that he has achieved with the savings, and that this home now, by its decision, does not produce any negative reaction and that this is further complicated. So, and ours, I suppose, is at least my opinion, of all, that this positive environment that you have achieved is being continued and that today, like, uh, the representatives here, the MPs in this house, we allow for a continuation of this conversation and a solution to the problem that, as far as I understand from the public, is supposed to come within about 30-40 days of some round proposal. So I would ask the minister to tell us of these options that we have ahead of us, which for him, the Council of Ministers and foreign exchanges saves us more usefully? Let's not make our own decisions... If it's useful, give it back to the commission that once again, if the law itself is in such a form, that with the change of the number of years that you agree can pass, we would return it. But if the law in its contents is bad, so it can't make it possible and if it needs to be rejected, please tell us what your suggestion is.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. So, here, Minister Vrankić, you've heard this. Therefore, because of the seriousness of the subject at the College, we reached a consensus, so, among other things, if this report of the commission accepts this home, the law falls. No matter what he passed in the House of Representatives. The report, which brings one conclusion in itself, I believe you have read it, is the conclusion – the Council of Ministers undertakes that after the verification of the old foreign savings, the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on old foreign savings, accounts for old foreign savings and delivers it to the Paralemtar Assembly of BiH. So, what Mr. Ivanić said, I wouldn't repeat it. But it comes down to that, if it is possible to repair, therefore, the law that is before us, in cooperation with the Council of Ministers and in cooperation with the savings that you have already involved in this process, is it, is it, to correct this part of the text. We, therefore, have decided to propose to the College, in agreement, therefore, with the Resolute Ministry, that this report, which is negative, should be returned to the Commission, that it should be completed and completed and that we should, therefore, shorten the procedure, so that the adoption, if we will achieve the same effect in relation to what you just said. Here I'd like to pray, if not, then tell us what's the most excessive, so it's not harmful for the savings. Here you go, Minister Vrankić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u255	Look, if I told the old savings yesterday that I had two hearts, then I'd give one to them, and I'd leave one to the state, uh, different interests, uh, it's their property, it needs to be returned. And as state minister, then I say I have to, uh, preserve the country's macroeconomic economic stability and find a variant that it can really come back, so that we can develop the country further. What I would like and what I would like most is simply to relieve ourselves of this ambience and politicizing and misleading and old foreign savings and ourselves working on this project. We now have two laws in circulation. And whatever anyone needs and whatever they need, that's what they're called. We sent a new law a month ago to the House of Representatives procedure in which we did not set out according to the deadline, and the law says it is up to 13 years. Niko one said 13. My estimate is that the old foreign savings don't have as much as 70% of what we predicted. It's an automatic 30% smaller deadline. It's an automatic 30% smaller deadline. And we've given in these changes that we've sent additional sources of resources that we've found, that's another thing. And we're going to prepare an amendment, and now I'm going to be picturesque. Since I was a federal minister, last year we had 150 million marks of unscheduled funds because there was more income from spending but no radio rebalancing, and now we've come to a new year, where we've spent these funds. It is a sin that cannot be forgiven. Those funds need to go into excess income,...to settle the internal debt. That's what's only economically right, what's to be done. And precisely because we took a constructive approach, that we went to solve the old foreign savings, I believe that you would all raise your hands in the Federal Parliament, that those 150 million marks should be directed towards a debt settlement. And that's, say, already, if it's 30% less than 9 years old, with 150 million marks already returned to maybe 7-8 years, which is acceptable. We have securities that are internationally recognised documents issued by the state, serviced by the Central Bank, guaranteed a budget for them, absolutely acceptable thing and what someone needs, or if there are needs as I heard yesterday, that people have to be treated, so when you have your securities, you go to a bank with a small discount, uh, charge. And on the other hand, I'd like to say that a large number of old foreign savings have been verified and looking for a solution. They signed it. We can't go back. We're the only ones left big. So those who are the relationship's digits and because of that one approach, I think we've simply traveled the path that we have to continue. And the rest is, then, after verification, that we really see what it's like to be and what additional resources are to bring these deadlines down to acceptable deadlines. Here, I'm an optimist after yesterday's meeting and after all these instructions that we have, that's one way of doing it. If you're asking me about this law, I'd like, uh, to relieve us, not to invite ourselves too much to others, and that what we've started with the procedure and this committee, to continue that way and to come up with that solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u256	Thank you, Minister Vrankić. This doesn't stop us from opening the debate. We need to open a debate. I open the debate after we hear, here is the discussion between Mr Ivanić and Minister Vrankić on two occasions. 15 Mr Ivo Miro Jović, please. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I say hello to everyone one more time. When it comes to this point, I'd like to discuss a little bit and say what circumstances this is all about. The reminders are very affirmative of what we have heard here today from Mr. Vrankić, Minister of Finance and Treasury. Calmingly for those of us who represent here and the people who are in that group of foreign savings so that we can do our promises both pre-election and all over the years in the field in the best possible way. So far, there has indeed been a frustrating situation against the people who are in this category of foreign savings. They gained their savings either in the country, or outside, with confidence in the country that was then invested in the banking system. On the last page of all these foreign exchange books, it was said that the stake was guaranteed by the state. BiH has assumed continuity and obligations in all segments, including this, through the fall of the former country. And so far, it hasn't been correct by the body of the government, closing its eyes on those facts. However, the persistent pressure of people who have been directly damaged, which surely understands all the public that it is a fair, correct demand for people, and lately we have a situation that the court in Strasbourg has also ruled that these people should be heard and returned to them what has been robbed. Then it must be good for us in these benches to deal with a lot more time with this issue than it's ever been before. Various proposals for legal solutions have caused further or misunderstandings or frustrations. However, the bitter question remains always with the taste, among other things, we heard that little, uh, I refer and Mr. Vrankić now said that, there were conditionally some possible solutions in the last year at the Federation level, so bitterness remains as it was possible for the funds of the succession not to be affected by this category to some extent. Now, what measure is that, I don't know, but it was correct. Not to be totally left out. And the first plan was to solve the issue of fighters, the warrior, for I was well picked up in tongues and armies, those who waged war, they were reconciled from what these people had worked hard and patiently to create. That's my point of view to the public because I have to say, my commitment to these people, that this country must return to them. So when Minister Vrankić speaks, here's a few times, for who knows which time, I mention him in this presentation, then be two hearts and one soul, Mr. Minister. So, put it together, and you've already shown it, good guidance in this problem, which is very commendable. You've shown your understanding of these people and your desire and your determination to get rid of it, not to delay it. And I believe these people gain little confidence in solutions. So it's a good thing we heard here today that we have a certain conclusion and I'm getting optimism because this issue has begun to be considered cool heads. So far, it's been, I repeat, constantly fustrating for both sides. The state kept saying it couldn't go back, so maybe sometimes it shouldn't, it shouldn't be ignored that one part of the 16 international factors here pointed out that it shouldn't, should not be returned, and now we're getting a little closer to the solution and I think we have people who are eager and willing and want to do this satisfaction. It's just that there's something missing in this conclusion that I would suggest, and that's the term. People are interested, it's nice what you said, we look forward to it, just until when. We're running out of patience. So I propose for this conclusion, so when bodies together with the representatives of these associations are going to create and do what you said, so that we can say e here finally this question has a future solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Dear colleague Božo Rajić came to the floor. Here you go, Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u259	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests. It seems to me that this topic requires that it be discussed in this high house, primarily because of those who are directly concerned, but also because of the overall public of BiH. This topic has been spoken of and written as a rare subject in BiH, but I would like to try to touch the problem from some aspects that may not be enough, not at least in this house presented. The Committee on Budgets and Finance, I was just saying in this sense something today, Minister Vrankić said very vividly that here is the necessity, for us MPs, to reconcile two interests, two needs and two options. On the one hand, BiH, as a legal follower and debtor beyond its will, to carry out that obligation and to question the stability of the country and, on the other hand, to execute, primarily the moral and then the legal debt to those whose money is left and spent without their question, without their previous or subsequent consent. And in this quest to balance those two interests, those two demands, we tried to make some solutions, formulations on the Committee of Budgets by making our... conclusion, which was adopted and in the material delivered, to be in charge of the Council of Ministers, if this bill adopted in the House of Representatives here would not get support, meaning, in that variant. But here's what happened that the Council of Ministers, and only by its decision, went into one process of making what that conclusion meant. So, preparation of amendments and additions to the law. However, I must touch myself, from the point of view of the economic profession and the relations that prevail, that this is about the classical relationship of debtors and creditors. And it seems to me that too often in our discussions and in our media statements, there was sometimes a view that, that all solutions were sought according to the scales and possibilities of the debtors, which is neither typical nor legal, nor moral. So the trustee, the one whose assets are, would have to have at least a primate, at least in this unfortunate classic form of 51:49. And we must understand once that the debtor, first of all, is obliged to carry out the obligation, and that the trustee can have understanding, and that understanding cannot be unlimited, nor can it be infinite. 17 And so I remind you, all of you who, of course, we all lived in this country and we know a little bit about the opportunities that ruled, it's not about 17 years, since the '90s. To this day. It is still at least 8 to 10 years when the authorities, in the authorities of the then state and the Republic of BiH... of the socialist state, were limited by these same savings to the possibility of making their money available. We remember all the good and the couple, the odd and the days without gasoline and Milka Planinc and the reformer Ante Marković, so for 8 to 10 years these same people and we among them, many here couldn't get to their savings because there was a limited right to have. So it's not 17 years from the '90s anymore. to this day, but at least 25, and maybe 27 years. And if you tell people now that they're expected by some deadline that's open, it's only open from the back, with... now it's 13, up to 13 years old and people in that trouble always realize that they're working, which is a really rule of 13 years, even though we're talking, we're going to be trying here to find solutions to make it a more appropriate time that could, in some way, satisfy both of these interests and debtors and creditors. I would pray, therefore, for considering these questions to be kept in mind that it's not just 17 years past, but 25 at least and, theoretically speaking, a model plus 13 years. It's a terrible long period for each of us. I don't know who'd have so much faith that he believes it'll be settled correctly. When it comes to the law, I am in favour of passing the law and adopting a law of trust, therefore, a law that is real, which is enforceable, which is materially financially covered. We should not afford ourselves at any price to double-cross the savings, give them political promises or give them a politically motivated law that doesn't have any real cover, then say later – you know, here, you'll have someone else to solve it. I am for the law to be done in such a way that he has absolute guarantees that he will be implemented within the deadlines, in the way it is defined by him. And that's why I'm interested in giving a chance to find a solution that will be just and realistic. I therefore support this idea that the conclusion of the Committee on Budgets and Finance is returned to be reconsidered there, brought into line with the solutions offered by the Council of Ministers, in the community with the representatives of the Savings Association, and that from these two materials, two, three wills, political messages and requests, we come to a single solution that we will finally be able to adopt here, because we have formal legal opportunities, and that is the technical question of how to bring this law into line with those adopted at the House of Representatives because it is no problem that the law should be amended if it corresponds to the interests of all those involved, above all, save. So, Mr. Chairman, I would like to join the proposal that the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and Budget return to that commission and open the possibility of further agreeing and resolving this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Ljubičić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u261	18 Gentlemen of the chair, distinguished fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I only want a few notes to address this house on this matter. I do not dispute the right and need of my fellow delegates to publicly state their position and opinion on any matter, normally and on this matter which, we have heard, and all are aware, for a long time, a question that has been spoken of in this country, and this country has an irrefutable commitment to this matter and to these people to answer. I have no intention in my discussion of going back to this question. This is the problem that happened and how it happened and who it was, etc., means whether it's going to be later and who's going to talk about it, about it. I accept the fact that we are here where we are and that this obligation stands before us. But I also want to point out that I fully respect these people's rights, so those who insist, insist that these funds return to them. So, it's undeniable and I fully support all of their efforts, all of their initiatives going in this direction, but as a delegate in this house, I want to point out that, and I believe that we are all aware here that we are sitting on it, we have a commitment to both the state and that our statement and the vote on any law, I at least, here, speak for myself, I don't and I don't have the right, I don't think I have the right to bring in and compromise the functioning of the state in any way. To shorten my discussion, I think that here, as far as the ministry and the proposal of Minister Vrankić and what has been discussed and discussed on the committee in charge of this matter, I see that the views of the commission, and the proposal of the ministry and Mr Vrankić, are going to find a peaceful solution regarding this issue. How pleased these people will now and with this new bill that will come into the process, so we remain to see, but I think that's the only solution to overcome this issue and overcome this problem. On the other hand, I will surely support Mr Vranikić's proposal in this part, and what is related to the Commission's position and proposal to find a solution. I think in the Commission's proposal and what Mr. Vrankić told us was that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. Who wants another word? So, I'm closing the debate. What?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u263	Can we take a five-minute break before we make a statement? Just before the plea, let's make a deal now, because I...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u264	The college is close to one proposal. Here's a five-minute break just so we can make a deal about... And I'd like to ask Minister Vrankić if he could do a little, uh... 19 [[PAUZA]] So here we have had brief consultations that may have been longer than five minutes but were very necessary. They were very necessary, and after the consultation we came to, since we had two reflections and this which the College proposed and what Mr. Rajić suggested, which is essentially the unique position of the Croatian People's Club and in relation to, therefore, not to me but to the announcement, and to all of what we have heard from Mr. Vrankić, in relation to the activities that have been undertaken so far, in relation to some new circumstances, I would say, so, with all the savings from both entities, and now even with the association that went to that extent, in a verbal manner, to prepare the representatives of the clubs who are willing to lay down this law, i.e. to accept the negative position of the budget. Therefore, these new circumstances are that this agreement has been reached with the associations on the elements that will be in that law and more acceptable than to return to the commission, as the Council of Ministers has already reacted, following the conclusion adopted by this committee before this House and debated and adopted this conclusion. So, it's a very important fact, uh, we could return this committee to a conclusion in terms of the elements we heard from Minister Vrankić. That we want to believe that we are so politically mature and serious and that this is one of the most important and important things that is crucial, compared to everything it saves in BiH, when no one can cheat on them anymore. So, this decision of ours, to accept the committee's report that this is contrary to the principles of basic text, would mean that the law is falling. The law falls and we wait for it to come to us, therefore, a law like this with the text agreed, again I say again, I repeat the words of Minister Vrankić, with all the associations, uh, from all levels in BiH where it will be taken care of the possibility of a return period and that it will be somewhere within the frameworks between 7 and 9 years, as Mr Vrankić said. But if it is said by 13, then it is regulated by a sublegal act, therefore, by an act implemented, so it regulates the enforcement of that law by the Council of Ministers, or by a resolution ministry. So, I have allowed myself the freedom to explain to myself what we have discussed so far, and therefore the proposal, the proposal, the College, after the consultation, is to make a statement on the report of the committee with the conclusion that is in that report, and each vote will be voted on by its own personal, therefore, responsibility, desire, therefore, not to complicate the matter because it is believed that in this way it will be both more favourable and faster resolved for the savings, according to the words, therefore, of the relevant ministry. I believe this is where the most responsible people from the ministry are. I don't close the debate, the debate is still open. Who wants a word? Then can we accept what I said, with the explanation I gave and approach the vote? 20 Excuse me, who wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Jović. They'll all get the word, no one will be denied. Everyone's gonna get a word in. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u266	My discussion, actually, isn't, it's just an inquiry. By today's decision, does the law remain in the process? If he doesn't stay, I won't be for that, any suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u267	Please, it's a matter of personal decisions of every MP. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u268	Mr. Chairman, I absolutely respect the efforts that the College of the House made in this short stop to try to find a solution. But I would only like to explain in two sentences why we from the Croatian Club in this house insist that the law is not refused, but that it remains alive in the process and that it is in constant correlation with the solutions offered by the Council of Ministers in agreements and with consent to savings, or their associations. When this agreement is agreed and when we get evidence here that the savings support the proposal that Mr. Vrankić was talking about, we are ready then to reject this bill that we are talking about today and turn to a new proposal. Until we had that proposal, let's be honest, it would be too much, uh, I don't know, we'd put too much trust in something that doesn't have... So, I think we should get back to the commission, keep the law alive until there's a proposal made by the Council of Ministers, and then that law, adopted in the House of Representatives, refuses, if necessary, with evidence that we have the consent of the Savings and that we all push in the same direction. That's it, thank you very much. So I'm staying at this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. This, therefore, is what we discussed both. Believe me, we've been on the scale of whether it's a good one or another question. The excess of this proposal is only in one detail which is not exactly the detail of how the Ministry of Finance sees it. There is one fear, therefore, is not disputed, therefore, there is a will, therefore, even the Council of Ministers, to return it to the commission for the completion. So, if you know right away it's not that, nothing's screwed up, we're discussing it, but there's one justifiable fear, one little fear that can be harmful because it could stop the verification of old foreign savings. It's something that wouldn't fit practically, uh, because now it's just a little bit bigger savings. Can you let the Collegia take one break from five minutes ago? Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u270	Uh, why would she stop the verification? The point of what the commission did, don't look separately at this refusal from the conclusion, so we, when I was in your former ministry before that session, were well informed of your people doing it, and my impression was undivided that it could be shortened. But no one is able to, and your people from this ministry said, "Let yours sign it, you know." As long as the verification isn't complete, it's hard to talk about anything. You don't know how much you owe, and how will you know how many years you're gonna get back? If I'm not mistaken, then the option was that it would be over by July, if I'm wrong, someone would interrupt me. So the verification should be completed by June, it should be by May 1st, so some law has extended it, if I'm not mistaken, so it's presented to me. If that's until July, let's wait until that July, it's not after all that far. You know what people are afraid of here, if we totally destroy this right now, then there's no saber over the ministry, so there's a lot of things that can still happen. We were not in favour of this law, as it was proposed, being adopted, that's what I have to say. I'm not, you can't just be principled if I don't know how much I owe, how can I say what the deadline is. And I know how the clerks work, whenever something counts, to be sure, times two. It's like that, like statisticians. So, in principle, we're not about to adopt it as it is, because when people hear it by 13, it's a free story for you, is it? It says 13 and it's over. Everyone means it's 13. Let us leave this, live, somehow by the end of July or by the beginning of July, if I'm not mistaken that this ratification should be completed by then. If I'm wrong, if this isn't true about ratification, let someone say so that I might be able to conclude differently. If that's so close, look out, that's what now, put it back to the commission, you have this process, it'll be a lot clearer by then. What the council, uh, representatives in the home adopted... it's a dibidus, I mean here we agree. It was the time before the election when people chose with every voice, so as such they supported. It's out of the sleeve that five years like it's probably from the sleeves and these maybe a little bit smaller, these 13. Here, if I helped anything, and I don't know if I did, but I'd leave this alive, let it be like some kind of saber that the ministry has to do this right as it started. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u271	Thank you very much Ibrahimpašić, you have helped because Mr Ivanić gave up his discussion and you have returned to our original proposal to return it to the commission. So that's the conclusion and the College that I'm taking it out as a unique position. We're not taking a break, so I'll take a break, but I'll take the order of things, as we predicted. We must give priority, respect our permanent bodies, the commission has given its report, I will first put, therefore, that report. If we accept the report of the commission, the law falls. So, and then there's no point in this proposal from the College. If we return the commission to do so, then the law remains alive, and then I will suggest to you in what sense we would return it to do so. 22 So, I have to respect, uh, our permanent bodies and I will put on the plea, so, the commission's report with a conclusion. Who's in charge of this commission's report with the conclusion? Is anyone there? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? ___________) I can't vote as a member of the committee, I need to be abstentioned. Two members of the commission, three members of the commission are restrained. So, I agree that we did not accept this report, and now I propose, therefore, that, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and Budget Committee, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and in agreement with the associations it has proposed and with which the Ministry of Finance has already discussed, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ministers, completed the conclusion with more details of Minister Vrankić, not to mention them now, and what the House of Nations will declare within the 30 days. Is it day 29 or 30, therefore, to be declared within those 30 days. Can you accept it like this? Here you go, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u273	One small correction if you accept it. I would not oblige the home to conduct parallel talks with the associations and with the ministry but I would oblige, in accordance with what the minister has already told us, that home be, or our Finance Committee, timely informed of the results of the agreement between the ministry and associations. To free us from direct contact, to free us from direct contact because there is no need, since their talks are already taking place that need to be negotiated.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u274	Thank you very much. So that's very acceptable. So, the commission, that we return the commission to a re-determination that will deliver a brand-new report to this home, therefore, a new report, but take care of all the elements discussed by the respected Minister Dragan Vrankić here and what he heard from the discussion of the representatives who spoke about it. I'm putting on a statement like this, a conclusion like this. Who's in? _________(?) And those amendments can amend this law. 23 I find that we have unanimously returned this commission to make a new report for us in the way we have found it. We conclude, therefore, this item of the agenda. It's point nine, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission on Electricity
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u277	Here, I think this is an extremely important area for BiH because BiH belongs to rare countries in the region that have excess electricity. One of the countries that has not so far verified its great advantage, including the Southeast European market, and the BiH market has not been adequately regulated. I think that in that section covered by the State Regulatory Commission, a significant step has been made because there has been an electrotransmission formation that should allow competition between producers. However, this part of the domestic market has not yet come to life. And that part of the reform that remained, that means mutual competition between producers and the right of customers to choose the cheaper producer, has not yet been brought to an end. I think that from the point of view of the general principles covered by this Regulatory Commission, because it mainly deals with transmission, there are a lot of things very correctly done and I support them in this sense to move on, but I also think it is important that the reform be speeded up in the maximum sense, since it is a process which, by joining the Southeast European market, is necessary. We won't be able to do it anymore, in any way, or avoid it. At the same time, I believe that the Regulatory Commission should be well committed to both the plans and the way the network of power lines is planned, since it is obvious that in BiH, if there is an investment they will go into the manufacturing sector and I hear that there are certain problems in making decisions about which they are taking, when and how they work. I think it is some document, it is not known whether it is in the jurisdiction of the regulator, I think it is no more, I think it is more in the jurisdiction of the transmission company directly, that it should appear on the competent institutions that we know where, how and how to think and build and work power lines that should enable the use of BiH's advantages, which is, in particular, the electricity that 24 will certainly be less and whose price will certainly continue to grow and which is one of the development opportunities of certain parts of BiH. I think from that point of view you should do everything you can to prepare those capacities. At the same time, I don't think it's a good idea to have a member of the Regulatory Commission for a year, and it's not, I just can't figure out how it's possible that we can't carry out a procedure for selecting a member of the Regulatory Commission to have the commission in place. Now and to another member, as far as I can see, by the end of June, the mandate expires, so we may find that out of 3 members, 2 members are temporary, and this for the authority and credibility of one such institution would not be good, and I think this home should commit, I don't know who, or myself, if it is Parliament, that the procedure for the selection of people in that commission should be implemented as soon as possible by the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. Who wants another word? Is there any need, Mr. Salkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u279	Honorable delegates, respected presidency. It is only in some way to comment on Mr Ivanić's presentation in terms of and support for certain things he said and only one brief or two brief explanations. The first thing, when it comes to the internal market in BiH. In accordance with the law and in accordance with the Treaty on the Energy Community of Southeast Europe, we have one plan, i.e. we have reached a decision on the scope of the opening of the market so that, in accordance with the agreement, we have already made it possible for certain consumers who have more than 10 gigawatts of hours to enter the market this year. Since 01 January 2008, everyone else is given the option, except households, because in 2015 the possibility will also be given to households. So we stick to that plan. The second thing – what have we done and what is the current situation in the energy market in the environment, across Europe? Will all those who will have the opportunity to move to the market, be willing to use their right, as current energy prices in BiH are much lower on the wholesale market than in the environment, and all those who are tariff buyers find it difficult to move to the market. That's one thing. The second thing, when it comes to reforming and restructureing the market -- that's why I answered the most. You know there are action plans in both entities for the reform of the electricity sector. I have to say one big part of the job is done, but the same important part is the rest. Again, I stress, most of the part in Republika Srpska is the job done, in the Federation one part is the helmet and I am afraid, even, that in the Federation, when it comes to the part, it means the separation of production and distribution, we have already separated the transmission, that they appear, even, in retrograde processes, in terms of changes and what we have done before. And that's something 25 will have to do, first of all, by entity governments, by entity regulators, to provide what Mr. Ivanić was saying. In addition to the transfer of the company, the operator of the electrical power system has also been formed -- means that the system is running, and the next issue of network development is fully regulated, so based on indicative production plans, the transmission company will propose a transmission network development plan, and it is under the obligation of the DerK to approve this plan and I do not expect more significant or more significant problems in the future, when it comes to the transmission network in BiH, especially considering that it is, in some way, being converted and that we still have, at least in this segment, sufficient capacity for, for, to work. And the next thing I know, I can't help but say, the question of choosing one of the members of the State Regulatory Commission. In early 2006, the State Regulatory Commission, in some way, filed a request or warned, or submitted a request to the federal government to initiate a procedure for selecting a member to whom his term of office was laid out on 30 June last year. Unfortunately, the procedure was delayed, the elections came, according to information I have, to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers will soon propose, I hope, a proposal to the House of People and the House of Representatives, so we expect that the proposal should be adopted by the end of June, and a parallel process in Republika Srpska for the election of another candidate to whom the mandate expires in 30.06. I remind you, we have sent a letter to the Council of Ministers that such a delay has violated the principle of a degree in the mandate of a committee member, in a way that has been tried, i.e. to avoid ever having two members or three members of the commission, don't Bog, change at the same time. It can happen easily, or will happen this year, that we will likely have the possibility of two members being changed. I don't know how it's going to be, the choice is going to run but it's theoretically possible that two members will be changed simultaneously so that only 1 will remain for the next period of the previous members. The intensity of the law was that each year one member would change, meaning that what happened last year would never happen, and it would be good to think, even if that mandate, now, a member who had been late with the election, were eventually to define that bringing the elections together over the next period, we would avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Salkić. Anybody else want a word? Now I'm closing the debate and putting on a statement report. Who's in charge of this report? I find that, Mr. Tihić, I hope that you too, therefore, agree that we have unanimously accepted this report. We're going to point ten, that's Ad. Ten. Report on the Office's work on complaints in 2006 26 You also received a report on the work of the Board of Appeal in 2006. The House of Representatives has accepted this report. I'm opening the debate. I am opening a debate, if there is a need for someone outside the office – please, if not, wait for the MPs and you will give an answer. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Pilav has been released. So, I'm putting on a statement report on the work of the Board of Appeals. Who's in? I also find that we unanimously accepted this report. Point eleven is Ad. 11. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH and on the work of the Personal Data Protection Committee
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u288	We have here a report from the Office for the Audit of Institutions, not a report from those institutions. That's why I think we're adopting the Office of Audit Reports, which means this package. common discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u289	It's OK, it's OK. It's OK, it's OK. I'm not, I'm sorry, it's okay, but I didn't suggest we adopt the package, but one report at a time. [[Common discussion]] We will first adopt, therefore, a report from the Office of Audit, the Office's work, please, first I will open a debate on this matter. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea, so this report. Who's in charge of this report? Now it's a package, here, look at that. Thank you very much. I'm realizing that we unanimously accepted that because that's basically how it has to be, isn't it? We ended this part. The 17th is the 29th Ad. 17. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2006
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u312	Here, I'm going to briefly underline what's most important in this report. And that's that, finally, after a number of years, the result of one teamwork, so the commission before you is, and I think it's a very high-quality piece of work. So, basically, the result is that, that, during the analysis of the cases that were on the agenda, we have brought over 400 solutions to the confiscation of citizenship. The solutions so far have been filed somewhere in 12 lawsuits since 12 court cases, have been confirmed somewhere around 6 which speaks best about the quality of the commission's work. The essence, therefore, of these solutions that have been adopted in the most part are therefore, in fact, the following, so the commission once made a public call, invited the persons who came from that mandate period and the largest number of solutions were taken in situations where those persons did not respond and we did not have them registered in the CIPS. That's the largest number of cases. For the number of these grounds by which we took away the take-back solutions, the admission of citizenship was a reception based on participation in the army. So one particular number of persons was a member of the army and on that basis they were received after Dejton. The Commission took the view that it was not legal, though at that time they were practically not even members of the army. So we've come up with a large number of solutions based on this seduction base. The court, therefore, has confirmed these views, following lawsuits for solutions, of our own. So so far, we have only one case against our solutions in which the court has requested that we really determine the identity of a particular person. You know, there are really certain problems in fortifying real identity. We have, therefore, working on these items, we've found that there's one object where a person, for example, has over thirty identities. I personally think, therefore, working in this matter of citizenship from the very beginning of a working relationship, somewhere in 2001, that this is a very solid piece of work, that we finally took off one ballast, better say one fictitious burden. I see fiction in that, therefore, most of these people who have been given the solution to the confiscation are not in BiH. So there's not one actual connection that's the basis of civil law. I don't think there's any need to expose anything special. You've got one detailed statistic and names. If there's any questions, we're here, right? 37
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u313	I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u314	I'm sorry for being a little funny around here that I'm always discussing something, but I really need some key things. First of all, I don't belong to those people who tried to politicize this and make this some big political story, and I didn't do it. But I don't think this whole story is the fault of those who got citizenship. But it's those who illegally gave them citizenship. The whole story was moved towards the people who got it, instead of those who didn't properly apply the law. Fortunately, such people have different peoples, so no one can say that they are against a nation. It is not logical if someone did not act by law and gave illegal citizenship to continue to perform significant state functions in this country and significant functions in the administration sector afterwards. If we let it go, and things happen at the same time that the bearers of key political functions are carrying legal responsibilities for their own but sometimes political decisions, then I think that the rise in the whole of a civil servant will be reduced to a low level, and that is why it is considered necessary and inevitable to speak in a normal way somewhere without a great politicisation of the public and that, in such a way, people who illegally gave citizenship bear responsibility, because I don't think that those in the principle can remain civil servants and do more confidential jobs in this country. And that's why I think some conclusion of that kind, uh, still, should be made. So I'm not talking about criminal responsibility. I'm talking about normal, I don't want to get into it at all, it's not my place to underestimate it. I'm talking about performing a civil servant's office. And I think it would be good for a competent authority to verify the legitimacy of those people present to remain civil servants.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. Therefore, in view of the proposal that some conclusion regulates this as the responsibility of the persons who have worked and led to the state of illegal work, so I must remind myself only that in the conclusions of point 3 it states: "The State Commission is obliged to submit the report on the work to the BiH Prosecutor's Office in order to make possible the law of the prescribed measures against certain institutions and individuals working on the award of BiH citizenship contrary to the regulations". So here is what Mr Ivanic was talking about. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u316	It's completely different, it's a criminal responsibility. There's a responsibility here for your job. Discipline, here's a simple word. Which is far lower, outdated, so it's obsolete for people who can still work on the same or similar jobs even though their names show they didn't respect this country's law when they did it. 38 I ask you to think about what I'm talking about, I'm talking about responsibility for professional work, not criminal work. And I have to be honest with you that I think it's a minimal move that one of the institutions, is that the Agency for State Services, should, if nothing else, and that's to check it out, so it says, there are no elements, it's out of date. But if we go over it, then I really think we're completely amnesty, in a professional relationship, people who were responsible for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u317	Thank you very much, Mladen.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u318	If he doesn't, I know that conclusion and I said right away in my first one, I'm not talking about a criminal, it's going to be the competent authorities, but I'm talking about the professional responsibility of a civil servant.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u319	If there is a criminal trial, so, and if there is a conviction, that civil servant will be removed from the state service by the very act of judgment. Mrs Alma Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u320	Yeah. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u321	Excuse me, ma'am. Alma Čolo, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u322	When, please, here, maybe I'll explain a little bit. When it comes to, uh, the individual responsibility of each of these people who have issued such solutions, in order to be able to take appropriate measures against them, it is necessary that the court in the service procedure in the administrative dispute has also found that such a solution has been taken unlawfully. It means that the commission that examined the adoption of a solution that was accepted by BiH citizens means that in this particular case it correctly found that the law was unlawfully assigned to citizenship and that the court confirmed it. However, we have the situation that out of a large number of people who have found that citizenship has been illegally allocated, they have never launched an administrative dispute. I don't want to, uh, get into some calculations about why people didn't start a administrative dispute. 39 On the Administrative Commission, together, at the last session, not at which the report was adopted, we had a complaint from some people who said that their right to bring legal aid against a solution that abolished their citizenship was denied. They don't have the right to appeal, they don't have the right to appeal. The right to appeal is guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. Mr. Vuković said they do not have the right to appeal, because they do not know who the second-degree organ above this commission is, although the second-degree body could be the Council of Ministers. But, see, they have a legal remedy provided through a lawsuit in the administrative dispute. They had the right within 60 days to initiate the administrative dispute. The question arises when the man is not in BiH territory, in which way he learns that his, uh, citizenship has been taken away. If no information is available to him, is he entitled within 60 days of receiving this solution from the Commission or when he found out in any way, as the provisions of the BiH Administrative Procedure Act apply, so it can be announced by means of public information that citizenship has been taken away. If he, if it wasn't available to him, he couldn't even initiate the administrative dispute. I'm not against people who have made a professional mistake, if they've made a mistake, to bear the proper responsibility. And of course, if it is being processed, I have knowledge that this is a long-running procedure, before the federalan tužilaštvo's Office, the assignment of citizenship in the Federation of BiH, I don't know, uh, for another part of BiH territory. So, if the D.A. finds that he has the elements of criminal responsibility, of course, it takes back and their responsibility as civil servants that they can't do the job. But who will determine their individual responsibility in the state service, I really don't know where the decision to take citizenship has not been confirmed. That's a very delicate question. You'd have to go from case to case. So, only in the case where the BiH Court said it was a solution legally, the commission, that it means that it was legally deprived of its citizenship, if, for example, the solution was made by Šahbaz Džihanović, to initiate some of its responsibilities. I don't know where a man works or who's going to run, who's in charge to raise the question of that responsibility. So, believe me, I don't know in which direction that conclusion of yours is practically formulated and how it can be practically realized.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u323	Thank you very much, Mrs Alma. Let's not go to the polemics.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u324	No, I'll just take a minute, I won't be long, but here, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u325	Mr. Božo Rajić asked for a word before, so if you'll excuse me, then Mr. Rančić, we'll finally give the Mladen that... 40
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u326	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I understand and support this view that the least guilty are the people who got citizenship the way they got it. I think that, most often, in most cases, it's about ignorant parties who couldn't manipulate the processes, that's what someone else did. I also realized, Mr Ivanić, that he understands what he is and does not insist on that conclusion, because he is already contained in the conclusion of the commission, on the criminal responsibility of what Mrs Čolo was talking about, so it is a procedural question, to determine whether this is a solution which, which has been taken away from citizenship, is valid when the court finds that judgment, whether there is a process, has any criminal responsibility? I mean, I realized Mr. Ivanić was talking about a process that would determine the similarity of people to continue to be important jobs in the category of civil servants, tenants or perhaps some with larger and wider areas. It's not legal for me, it's not political, it's a moral issue, and we know that in the process of various appointments, it starts from the arrival of the candidate lists, from the lowest levels to the highest, that there are some bodies in this country, institutions that are doing similarity checks. That they don't even have to tell us every time why someone is or isn't like him, someone's going to say it's inappropriate to perform that function because they're prone to alcohol, and they're not going to write it anywhere. So I took it as a moral act, and for that I understand, as far as I understand the system of decision-making, candidacy and verification should be the competent agency for civil servants. She, when she gets these solutions, should say so – listen, until this is resolved, until this can be seen, these people are objectively not similar to doing such confidential jobs in the area of the civil servants sector, the tenants or anything else. And whether someone fits or doesn't, antiquity can be a legal category, it can't be moral, it can't be a moral category, it can't be an old-fashioned secretary. That's how I realized it, and I think I got it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mr. Rančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u328	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, if it is a matter of responsibility, we should be principled in a way that we should go back to this report and remind ourselves that by birth, by naturalization, therefore, 16 000 people have acquired citizenship throughout BiH by different institutions. And if we are to be principled, then we should raise the question of the responsibility of all persons involved in the illegal issue of a solution, or assign citizenship to all 16 thousand, regardless of whether they are from the space of the former SFRY or just these thousands and a half of cases that are the subject of this commission's work, which are foreign citizens outside the space of the former SFRY. 41 So, if we want to get into this, we need to be principled, and then give the competent authority the task of reviewing all 16 thousand births, and wherever someone has sinned to determine responsibility. We cannot share civil servants on those who have granted citizenship to foreign nationals outside the former SFRY and on those who have granted citizenship to citizens of the states who have fallen apart from former SFRY in terms of responsibility. With regard to the overall report and the proposal for measures, i.e. the Commission's conclusions, I would like to share one thought with you all, which is that, in addition to these five proposed conclusions, we should consider one more matter, and that is whether it is necessary for parliaments to submit a report on what has been done, what state institutions will do with all these people who, whether in their final, whether or not they are judicial proceedings, remain without that nationality, and how the state will treat them, in accordance with course, with current and domestic and foreign regulations. So, in the proposed conclusions, there is no such thing. They have names, last names, home number, where it came from, etc. But I think it would be, that logical report and complete if we had that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u330	First, I fully accept Mrs. Čolo's suggestion, so it's impossible to decide on responsibility before the verification comes to an end. By my opinion that the one who didn't complain, he accepted a practical solution, except in case he proved he didn't know. And I guess the time will show, I guess he'll need it after a year, a year and a half to show, so if he shows up and then he shows up, I'd give that man a chance to sue again, I wouldn't limit him to 40 days, because he didn't know, he wasn't informed. I don't think we should do this right now, what I was saying. But according to the justice of the solution, people, the fundamental question is raised, can the man who issued the solutions that eventually and the court show that they were against the law to remain in office? So, I'm not saying that it can or can't, I really think if, in the end, it's all over with "Pill Pixie" it's not working, either. People continue to perform significant functions in this country, some related to security elements, I honestly, honestly don't think it's good. I'm not saying this because the public isn't here, this isn't even going outside, this isn't buying me political points, I really didn't talk about it at all. But honestly, I feel it in principle. And I don't think that's what we need to decide, but to call the competent authority to check that there are only elements in determining legal responsibilities for that position. And according to the Civil Service Act, it's the State Service Agency that determines, uh, disciplinary responsibility, it can't just, I know, because I was a minister, but someone needs to give her the incentive to do it. So I'm not talking about now, at this point, I'm only talking about when this procedure goes through and solves these cases, but at some point it has to be done. And with all due respect, I think that, however, there is a difference between those who, as you yourself said, by naturalization, have received legal residence in this country and those who have been given the solution. If someone lied to naturalization, I'm willing to immediately, uh, initiate proceedings against them. So, I'm right behind that, and against these, the procedure is being initiated in the same way that I suggested for this first group. But naturalization would be one general decision, a legal decision, which she said, it seems to me, who's been there for five years, that's how it was at a time when we had, I think, that variant. If there was an abuse of the law and for it to be checked itself, here, believe me, honestly. So I'm not against it. Don't think I'm splitting up now, I have no reason at all, I speak very principledly. Whoever misappropriated the law should answer. And now we've got one case that's got a lot of attention, and the difference is, uh, with people. I just, therefore, suggest that the conclusion, very loosely, that, by virtue of all the decisions of the Commission, the Agency for the State's Service consider, here, I speak very mildly, consider the purpose of launching disciplinary proceedings against the people who have done so, and who are still in the state administration no matter what level. So, a very principled attitude, but it doesn't pass that we didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u331	Thank you very much for the second time, Mr. Ivanić. Next time, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u332	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, naturalization is one of the ways in which citizenship or birth is acquired. It comes from a Roman slave state. By submitting, it is a way of gaining citizenship where a party, a foreign citizen or apartrid submits a request to the state and it gives it to him or not. With the fulfillment of certain conditions, ordinary and relieved, where fewer conditions are required. So, the report also says, I quote: "On the basis of the documentation available, an estimate was made that there are 16,000 people in BiH who were assigned bh before 01 January 2006. citizenship by naturalization. Of which 1,500 are people whose country is originating outside the area of the former SFRY and this is mainly treated by a public invitation, etc. Oh, yeah, that's why I said, if we're going to be principled, then all 16 thousand naturalizations or other basics of citizenship need, one, to question, so whoever made a mistake, of course, to answer. Let's not be inconclusive, for 1,500 citizens of foreign or apartrids outside the former SFRY, and that's where we're going to look for responsibility, and for 14 500, the one, the naturalization that's from the former SFRY space, we're going to close our eyes. It wouldn't be principled, it wouldn't be principled, according to the officers of one we'd have, that's who they broke into, and they're going to answer, and this other one who made a mistake in naturalization from former SFRY would be nominated by us, that wouldn't be fair. Well, that's why I suggest if we talk about it, then all of it. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u333	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Ljubičić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u334	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. I'll come from what Mr. Rančić commented. I don't have any dilemmas on that side, and I'm also on that point, and if we want to act in principle, I'm on it. And I don't dispute at all what Mr. Rančić commented on. So it's normal for me to accept. But I want something else, too, to say. When it comes to this problem or this issue and this problem, I also commented on the Human Rights Commission and it was Mrs. Čolo and I don't know who else with me, Mr. Koprivica. I'll repeat a piece of the discussion right here in front of this House. Personally, I think this is a very sensitive matter. It's sensitive to me for two reasons. The first reason is because it's about people and it's about certain human rights. So it must be a sensitive question on that side, too. Why else do I think it's a sensitive question? I think it's a sensitive issue because the BiH state on this issue, I'm convinced, must be looking at by the International Community and watching and waiting to see how this issue will be resolved in this country. And on that side, too, I think it's an extremely sensitive question. And I want something else, so to mention, by respecting this sensitivity of this issue, I personally think that you should give maximum support to the commission and I also want to express my personal position and my opinion when it comes to the work of this committee. I think that the commission has done this very professionally and I expect and we know that this commission has been extended for another year and if we are now thinking and talking about what Mr. and Rančić was saying, it is now another additional job, etc. But that's what it's all about. So, are they going to deal with this remainder or other of these people in BiH, are they here or not? I would just like to say, I expect the commission to continue this work in this sense of professionalism, and I expect the competent institutions to entertain and address certain issues that are signified and highlighted in this report, as well as in these conclusions. I simply expect the competent institutions to also appear in these conclusions and something that is also mentioned in this report, which is commented within the Commission. The co-operation office, therefore, had some problems in its work and it had problems with the competent institutions and within this and what Mr Ivanić was saying, is about very important institutions, whether in entities or, therefore, at the level of the BiH state. I expect a really and such maximum professionalism from these institutions to bring an end to this job in one of the most professional ways. With all due respect, I want to point out again, so, especially human rights, that we don't make any mistake about it. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. Make a deal in which order you raise your hands. I didn't see it. We'll give it a head start. [[Common discussion]] No signalling, here's the word, therefore, to Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u337	Thank you. I had no intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u338	Well, Mr. Jović, then Mr. Ibrahimović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u339	I had no intention, but after my colleague Rajić's special discussion, I have a need to express my agreement with the reason that he presented his proposal. One small dilemma about whether it would be excessive to the extent that, this, and these recommendations of the commission envisaged, in fact, criminally, or sanctioning those who broke the law and a little bit would be, in my opinion, problematicly professionally characterized as the problem of professional ethics breaking the law, for example. But, therefore, I fully support, in fact, the principle value of my colleague Ivanić's proposal and the explanation encouraged me to engage myself, indeed, regardless of what we are in the end for these additional reasons presented by my colleague Rajić, which I would extend to the need to discuss a little, if possible, in this way in the House of Peoples about the problem of professional ethics, that is, the problem of moral responsibility. Not only, in fact, government officials above all, but also to talk at all about the crisis of ethics and morality with us. About, say, cutting it short, don't tell me, uh, I don't think he'd explain it wider, I'm sure we'll understand each other. To deal with the reasons why we have a situation like this today, to be a politician, means to be a suspect in advance. Why do we have a moral crisis in the media, in journalism? Why don't we talk about the moral crisis and the ethics crisis? Why don't we even talk? Other societies that have passed these transitions, in Croatia, are very seriously asking the question and are talking about a kind of moral and ethical recovery in different categories of Croatian society, with Serbia, the situation is different, with Montenegro, you know that....We still do not have a problem, let's say, this, moral crisis, this, in different categories, especially in the most sensitive I would say, which is in the political and, let's say, in these media structures directly affecting this most intense public. Because it's just amazing that we have one of those now, and we're putting ourselves in a position to face the cynicism of squeamishing rights, human rights and mockery, actually morale in the protection of those rights. 45 Since the closed character is now our meeting, and supporting the reasons that Ivanić presented, supporting this expansion mentioned by his colleague Rančić, the reasons that Rajić extended to the principle, and given all the inconvenience, let's say, still stories, given the memory, of the moral political resemblance that we had from the previous, uh, system that we know of which kind of similarity. We're still not in a position to talk, say, about a terrible moral crisis. We have a situation, let's not get me wrong, but I think it's an important sensitive category, a question, let's say, of the cops he hangs over, whether it's founded or not, the accusation that they were actors of a crime that took place in Srebrenica, for example. Over all of us, there are more charges that the politician here is spared, pre-indicted for being guilty, that the criminal, who of us is spared, who can count on it. All my life, I've been trying to save face and I'm in a situation where, really, believe me, I've been in serious dilemmas whether to be in the House of Peoples or not. I'm telling you the truth. And so, here, inspired by the proposal, indeed, and by the reasons that I really support, I invite you to, here, we have the right to, we have the right to all that we agree on, to make ourselves a thematic session or a meeting or to resort to, I don't know, some other form, to talk, to say, here, about these things openly, without the media, honestly. Let's talk about our political responsibility, our media responsibilities. In our inability to say defend ourselves against terror of the media but also to defend ourselves against abuse of politics against media, or abuse, I don't know, other powers, whether, both domestic and foreign, etc. Because this responsibility he's talking about, with which he started this fellow, is a problem that overcomes the problem of citizenship. Even the problem of state officials is overcome, although in fact, it seems fair and fair to me if we, as the most responsible people, are the most politically responsible in a fair way to face this problem. We have really people, uh, real-state problems, laws, rights, etc. But in these problems that we're facing, it's simply an amazing fact that we don't notice, that we don't allow ourselves to notice how we don't talk, let's say, about the crisis of professional ethics, professional ethics at any level. And here's my contribution, so, to these reasons that you pointed out and some initiative that we could find the right form, that sometimes in this way we might talk about this and possibly other issues that there are also very much, and that not only deserve our attention, but I appreciate that our work at all could have some success, require a very serious and fair debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u340	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. These questions are usually discussed very little in society. The question had to, as it were, and ethics as Mr. Rajić mentioned it, um, I don't think it was even touched in the Law on civil servants except when he violates his intention, with the intention of producing damage. Mr. Jović. 46 IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u341	Thank you very much. It's common to say, I'm reporting for the wrong assumption. I have to answer for the correct quote. I apologize, Professor, for perhaps saying two words in favour of your discussion, then only this point, as permitted, the chairman. In fact, a little shy but true, we have, unfortunately, from the BiH institutions and international factors that touch this issue of what was said, a reminder, we are also invited from Parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Security, the Border Service and a number of other institutions, and, in late March, we had here in the neighborhood at the invitation of the OSCE to discuss just on the subject, imagine, the first sentence within the commitments taken by BiH, then they say that it is necessary to draw up annual information from the OSCE on the code of conduct, so which could go into ethics, morality and other things. Certainly this incentive that has come.... one broader dimension than what would be just professionally, but other dimensions and I am quite certain that it would encounter the approval of many, and that proposal that we received from the OSCE on the drafting of the Code of Conduct of Parliamentarians. You do, don't you? It's a small shift, but they're visible and they need it. I'm gonna go back to this one. We here today at this point are discussing a report delivered to us by one body, the State Commission for the Review of Naturalisation Decisions, which does not prevent us from discussing both the causes and the consequences of what this body faced. A lot of things Mr. Ljubičić took away from me and I agree with everything he said. We're discussing the work of this committee. Did what in its work damage what was called human rights and we had it on the Human Rights Committee and there we gave our consent that there was no violation of human rights, that we had no objections. I personally met with two people who were directly involved in this problem. One of them who has been deprived of his right is a professor, or doctor of legal science, I think he's a Sirijac and Abu Hamza. We stayed an hour talking about questions, and it's caused by a causal connection to whether someone made a mistake, how he made a mistake, and how it happened, and after 10 years, here's what now. Somehow, it just seems to me, perhaps even unnecessary, that we are sitting here at this house right now, calling on the authorities to take over and do their legal work, or within their legal powers, our work. I mean, I don't know how good that is, that's the conclusion. We will call upon the bodies of the authorities to do what is within their laws. I am to say that everyone should do their job from the domain of their work, be responsible for it, and therefore there are these commissions and these commissions, imagine how much authority they have. The decision is final. I don't think that's good at any job. And probably the proposer had problems ahead of him, so to empower someone, let's get more off the agenda. To enter the analysis, if the Dayton Treaty said that everyone must leave BiH in 30 days, and that is the end of January, or the end of December 2006, or the beginning of January '96, as it is possible that 4.5.7 years later, based on that participation in some armed forces, a man gets, these are the things that are problematic. It's the wrong thing to do. It's obviously a crime scene. It is someone who has, therefore, taken the right to make counterfeits and what is particularly signifiable in the work of this 47 commission, which is that of the 411 people who have been deprived of citizenship, it is all 9 of those who want to discuss the subject further. Obviously, they either weren't interested in us or they were single-handedly doing business, suspicious actions, so that they could achieve some of their goals or groups that belonged or did not come to this country at all. They're somewhere on meridians with our passport in their pocket. And that is why it is very good, arguing, even without the public, to say, in this way BiH becomes an interpreter of credibility. This is how we help this country to make that important step, that it is not ours, in fact, international there and embassies all over the country from morning till the darkness of our citizens who are unconscious waiting hours for a visa. We want and want to be who we are, the component of the modern, humane world, to be Europe. Welcome to everyone who comes to us and we're welcome to be where we come from. There's no need to fill the cover with the negativity of those people who carry our papers. And that is why it is important to support the work of this committee and here it could now be a conclusion, that, in agreement with Mr Ljubinčić, call on the bodies that have so far shown the reserve or in some way refused cooperation, to continue cooperation to bring this job to an end. What is this commission going to stop at, at 16 grand, at 400, we're going to have some other occasion, discussing the work of this commission, probably saying, "Enough of you or keep going." I say now, we adopt this report, we wish them to continue to work, not to violate human rights, that no one's tears are earned and that in that sense they are worth what? Codes of conduct both with them and with us and to say that we have one body that restores the credibility of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u343	I repeat myself, um, but I really need to say that I've never listened to people with so much respect for the human rights of those people they've treated and with so many arguments, that at one point, I'm a member of that committee, we've turned into someone who praises the commission, and you understand? This, in order to conclude in the end, however, that everything they did was maximum respect for human rights. So, so much for that commission. Well done, keep working like this, let's give them so much time to comb all this in that term. But then the result is what Ivanic is talking about. I also think that, uh, we can't, I don't know if it's us, but someone has to exist in this country who has to say, so he didn't bite a donkey wolf, but someone hurt some kind of job, some kind of code professional towards this country, and he's supposed to be carrying some sequencings. I agree, it's not just, uh, but whether it's us or not, me, me. And it wasn't us. I don't think it's us either. So, I'm going back to this, Jovicov, to adopt this report, there must be some ministers in the ministries where people like that work, and now if they do, and their job would be to comb this, so they can say if someone, uh, when we all know that these people used to do it for money, and sometimes on the phone, so it's, then, the question is, who's to blame. Is it? There. 48 So, I'd bend to that. Let's adopt this and keep doing this the way you've done it, so as a commission, how you've done it so far. To get to the end, so that then the normal consequence is that every responsibility for those people you can, but we're not. We're not executioning anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u344	/separated from the microphone/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u345	Here, formulate it, I don't know either, somehow, but yeah. I have nothing against this proposal by Jovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u346	Thank you very much, Mr Ibrahimović. So, here, now I'm going to give my word to Mr. Tihić and then she's Mrs. Alma. If anyone has a wish, let them apply, and then after Mrs. Alma, if no one wants to, we'll bring the end. Mr. Koprivica, OK.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u347	You see, we are here today in the first place meeting to discuss the report on the work of this state commission to review decisions on the naturalisation of foreign citizens and from this discussion, which was also a discussion from the Commission's report, it is clear that the Commission has done a good job and that we are supporting this commission to continue its work. And that's the key question. And the key question is to take away the citizenship of those who illegally acquired it. And this home needs to be considered first and foremost. The question of responsibility is one far broader question than our colleague Ivanic has, in some way, reduced it. You all know that the assignment of citizenship in every country and on normal and abnormal occasions is a matter of politics, it's a matter of law that was passed in one way or another. And we know what it's like in this time we're watching, how laws are passed. We know how they did those jobs. We know what politics was like. They should have been there, I don't know you, uh, Srbin from Knin who were expelled, who came to BiH, they should have solved their status, among other things through, among other things, and through citizenship because there were people left. They couldn't come back, they could, it doesn't matter, but, uh, it was one policy just like the Bošnjak from Sandzak. There have also been these cases of, uh, foreigners from other countries outside the area of the former Yugoslavia who are, let me say, uh, and the biggest problem. And now that we're looking at this report, we see that there are a lot of citizens who are fine, where good procedures have been carried out. I see we have some names that are often repeated 10 times 20 times. We have some names that are mentioned 1-2 times. We have some ministers mentioned (?). You all know whoever's involved in the administration and any procedure to have those people who sign the solutions, they have others who prepare it, and there's what Mr. Adem says, they have those who call the phone, especially in those times. Now, the question of responsibility, which is why I said, uh, just reduce it to a number of people, I'm not 49 against, I'm up for it, and that people who consciously did illegality can't stay in the state service anyway. I'm not sure this can be determined by the Agency, the State Service Agency, because here we're going to give, uh, we're going to take 10 unsecured solutions for a person, and on the other hand it's confirmed 90 solutions. You know judges when they judge, so no one has a 100% pass. We've seen today, and he's being tried by a member of the Bureau, so there's been an acquittal. Is that judge or prosecutor any longer needed and should not be at this job, so this issue with, normally, taking care of it, there's one who signs, there's one who does, the question of responsibility is quite complex and wide-ranging. That's why I would go here with that report that the Commission suggested by saying, here, if it's within the mandate of this committee, I think it might be one solution to leave the question of responsibility, the similarity in any case, for the end of this process and that this commission that can, based on the whole of the material, on the basis of work, I don't know those individuals, who are responsible for finding out what were the drastic cases of individuals who did these illegalities, you know. We won't now because of a few cases, uh, call for responsibility, etc., and come to the State Agency, there will be 10 negative solutions, but there are also 90 positive solutions on the other side, etc. Perhaps it would be good for the final report to point out, among other things, certain names for which responsibility should be raised, you know. I see a few names here that usually show up. Maybe those are the names, you know. But let's see one whole report, so that's going with, here, some conclusion that Mr. Ivanić suggested along with all those, here, reserves that I said, that the question of responsibility is much wider than the person who signed it. The primary goal is to adopt the Report, to support the Commission, to take away citizenship that has been illegally acquired and, of course, I am glad that the report is such a Commission to respect human rights, all of which BiH has taken over by signing, ratifying the many conventions that we have adopted here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u348	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. Mrs Alma Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u349	I'd, uh, short. I mean, if we accept this report from the Commission to refer the Commission's citizenship review report to the D.A., it's the most difficult form of responsibility and the people who have worked on it and the institutions involved. However, if we are in favour of, uh, potentially determining their criminal responsibility, I don't think this home should be against determining the issue of their professional responsibilities. Of course someone shouldn't be a candidate for a Constitutional Court judge if it's established in some regular procedure that he illegally gave citizenship. 50 So I think that Mr Tihić's proposal, this, in this direction, is a reconciliation, that, as this home, we make another additional conclusion, that it is binding on the Commission for the Review of Citizens to propose to the relevant institutions the launch of the responsibilities of official or authorised persons who have worked on the allocation of citizenships that have been found unlawfully assigned to citizenship. I don't mean that. We have no reason to protect someone if they're working illegally.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u350	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica. Thank you very much, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u351	Dear gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I would never speak of this again. I think we've said everything. The conclusions we have heard, or which are proposed, I fully support. I would only add to all of this, what Mr Jović mentioned earlier, we had an OSCE delegation here yesterday, they were, uh, coming, we received them from the Human Rights Commission. We were told that it would be very educational, or at this point very, uh, productive to do this code of conduct for Members, or delegates. We, uh, in that sense, have decided some of the activities ahead. We agreed that, uh, to all MPs, or delegates, they would submit a proposal, or draft that act, that in one, within about 20 to one month, all of us, when we get this code of conduct, would make our own comments, that it would be the Commission for Human Rights that would collect the remarks, do the consolidated text and that would then normally be adopted in the procedures at both homes. I would just add to all this some more of my personal vision that this code should be extended not only to us in the BiH Parliament, but simply to all elected officials. I think that this is a very important issue for the work of both Parliament and Commission and all others both in the ministries and other public places, public positions, since this nation, this country is simply in such a situation that people simply expect from us public figures such an approach, such a relationship that we ourselves prescribe sanctions for the possible conduct of the opposite of that code, etc. So in this sense, I'm using this collection to simply inform you about it. I've been assigned to be one of the operators of these activities, so I'd ask you at some point when we get these codes, uh, to activate ourselves a little bit, to read it, to prepare these proposals, to deliver it to us at the Commission, and we'll, uh, do it in the shortest possible time in terms of proposals that we'll later consider at these meetings. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u352	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? So, I'm closing the debate. A total of 11 MPs participated, of which 3 twice. I suggest that we accept the report on the work of the State Commission with the conclusions that we have in this report and at the same time accept this approximately, I tried to write this 51 what Mrs Alma said, to be in charge, therefore, of the State Audit Committee, etc. to propose, after the final report, measures for the responsible persons involved in the illegal procedures for granting citizenship to the competent authorities in BiH. They're not just assigned citizenship in one place. Would that be a peaceable conclusion compared to all these discussions that we've... If that's what it is, if it's accepted, then I'll put it first, so I'll take the report. Who's to take the report with the conclusions? Here, and I'm up for it. So unanimous. And who's for it, so it either falls out or kidnaps. And who's in favor of accepting this and, therefore, the conclusion at the end of this debate that I've read, will take it off the stenogram. Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously accepted, accepted and at the same time concluded the debate on this. Mr. Pandurević has something to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u353	I'd just like to thank you for this unanimity support.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-05-22-0.u354	Thank you very much, Mr. Pandurević. So we've exhausted today's agenda. I'm finishing the fifth session of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 2:45 p.m.
