ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13568	I am opening the 15th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In line with the BiH Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I invited the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, the OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who expressed interest in attending our meetings. We also invited representatives of certain NGOs. Representatives of the institutions whose reports we are considering today have been invited, and this is their duty to be here. I warmly welcome all those present and thank you for attending the session of this house. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know during the previous eight-month period this high house was chaired by the distinguished Mr. Beriz Belkić and I thank him for his successful work. I have been informed from our service that there are 29 MPs, 17 from the Federation of BiH and 12 from RS, which gives us the right to decide. The absence was justified by honourable MPs Huskić, Jukić and Kalabić. We have been informed by phone that during the session, we will be joined by a distinguished colleague, Prodanović, Lozančić, and Lozančić and Martin Raguž. And I realize we have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. You received an amended agenda proposal at the beginning of the sitting on the bench. I will, however, introduce you to certain changes and additions that have been made in the meantime. The draft agenda you received in the invitation to the session was removed from points 19 and 20. This is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Intelligence and Security Agency and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information. The legislator of these laws was colleague Niko Lozančić and he informed us that the proposed laws were withdrawn from the procedure. Again, the report on the work and business of the Public Radio Television Service for 2006, with the report on the work of the Management Board, was removed from the agenda on the proposal from the committee. I hope you got those papers on the bench. And, a report on the work of the State Audit Committee – Decision on the naturalisation of foreign citizens in BiH has also been downloaded because we have not received a report from the competent commission that we must have according to the Rules of Procedure in order to put an end to the agenda. On 27 September, the Human Rights Commission will consider this report today, or tomorrow, and we will have it on the agenda of the next 16th session. Also, according to the Rules of Procedure, three new points have been included in the agenda, which are mandatory: - The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. It's the high representative's law. - The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (Law of the High Representative). - As you can see, there is another mandatory point, it is my request to consider the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. All these changes in the agenda are in line at a session of the Extended College. I repeat, you have received a consolidated draft agenda on the bench and I am opening this debate on the draft agenda. Here, you can sign up. Dear counterpart Bećirović first reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13569	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, in accordance with Rule 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit the next proposal to supplement the agenda of the 15th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. So, I propose the following agenda point: - Consideration of the implementation of the programme objectives of seven political parties since 3 January 2007, with particular reference to the definition of the operational plan for the implementation of that agreement. Given the importance of the problem, the complete stalemate of the reform processes in BiH as well as the warnings of international representatives on the unsustainability of the existing situation, I suggest that this issue be the first item of the agenda of today's 15th session, immediately after parliamentary issues, or, possibly, if necessary, more detailed preparations, the first item of the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. For opening remarks on this agenda point, I suggest we put in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers. An explanation of why I propose this: Representatives of the seven political parties agreed on 3 January 2007 and officially signed the programme's objectives set out in the seven political parties agreement, followed by the signing of the BiH Council of Ministers' Schedule Agreement. On the basis of this, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić, submitted an exposé before this parliament on 11 January 2007, presenting the primary plan of the BiH Council of Ministers' work. Thus, with the beginning of this year, political leaders of the ruling parties announced co-ordinated work in new conditions and a new climate with the intention of making BiH a more efficient and better state for all its citizens and peoples over the next four years. Among other things, political representatives of parties who formed the parliamentary majority announced that the new parliamentary majority is capable of finding common interest in all peoples and citizens, and take on key state affairs in its own hands. That is how the chairman of the Council of Ministers himself, in the name of the new parliamentary majority, announced that BiH will be a country from which the good news will come. Unfortunately, contrary to these promises, there has been a serious deterioration of the overall political climate in the country, completely contrary to what the nations and citizens of this country have promised and ultimately signed by representatives of seven political parties who make up the parliamentary majority. The fact that all the reform processes have been halted in the last year and that nationalistic rhetoric has revived on the political scene all the well-intentioned citizens of the country as well as representatives of the international community. In particular, they are concerned about the assessments of EU representatives who realise that there has been a complete stalemate in all reform processes, with a particularly difficult assessment that there are risks in terms of stability and security. The parliamentary majority's responsibility has also not awakened the address of the new High Representative and EU Special Representative in BiH, Mr Miroslav Lajčak, who has made it very clear before this parliament what is being brought about by isolation for BiH and what are its consequences and the governmental, political, economic, social, spiritual and moral. So it is more than evident that BiH is currently in a difficult position and that the signed agreement by seven political parties has so far failed completely. In addition to the deterioration of the political atmosphere, there have been threats from some non-institutional actors that resolving the security issue will take place. With that in mind, I think, in the end, it is also necessary in the highest legislative body of BiH, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, to open up and seriously consider the issue of implementing the current Agreement of seven ruling parties on the basis of which this Council of Ministers was formed. It is better to talk about it here in the legally elected bodies of BiH than to discuss it at extra-institutional meetings. It is time for this country, for people in this country, to break the vicious circle of mutual accusations of ruling parties and non-productive debates, even those issues reached on 3 January 2007. So, I suggest that we put this as the first item of the agenda or possibly as the first point of the next session, and that we talk seriously about this issue, and the only thing that would be worse than the fact that this agreement, based on which the Council of Ministers is formed, is the fact that it doesn't even want to talk about it. That is why I call on all my colleagues to accept this addition to the agenda and to express our willingness to talk in BiH authorities about these sensitive and very current issues, and to implement the Agreement on the basis of which the parliamentary majority is an extremely important issue! I thank and deliver in writing this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13570	Thank you. I would warn MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure and limit their discussions to three minutes, not entering into the essence of the issues it proposes. And I would add here that I dropped that we added the 28th item of the agenda, that is: - The appointment of members in the Joint Commission of both homes to agree on the same text: (a) the Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education, (b) the Framework Law on Preschool Education and Education in BiH and (c) the Law on Radio and Nuclear Security in BiH, also in line with the Enlarged College. Now a distinguished counterpart, Hadžiahmetović, reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13571	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, at one of the previous sessions, we had fellow Members Momčilo Novaković's initiative to include the item on the agenda at a session, one of the next sessions: Information on rationalisation in the DKP network of BiH, which is now proposed for today's session. I have before me a fellow counterpart Novaković's initiative; among other things, it says that the agenda item requires information from the BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers, or the Foreign Ministry. Today, we also received a letter from the Presidency saying, among other things, that the Presidency had asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for full information and that the information was still being prepared at the Foreign Ministry, and that the chairman of the Presidency and Foreign Minister in New York. We have been asked from the Bureau to remove this item from the agenda and consider one of the next sessions. I suggest that in this sense we do not conduct a discussion without material, which was also a request from the proposer of this agenda to extend this point for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13572	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13573	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed fellow Members, I suggested this item of the agenda at the previous Expansive College, and then I accepted the suggestion of the College for which, of course, I think it was extremely rational to leave this item of the agenda for today's session, and so far those who need to deliver the material, which is the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, will do so. You see, we received here today a letter saying: Since the requested information is still being prepared at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that the chairman of the Presidency and the minister have travelled to New York for a session.. The congregations, we ask that this item be removed from the agenda and considered at one of the next sessions. So, not at the next one, but at one of the next sessions. To remind you, the point was to read: 'Information on the rationalisation in the DKP network of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the decisions made, the criteria for their decision-making, the effects of decisions, and further steps in this area.' Nothing makes more sense than that all these documents exist before making a rationalisation decision. I guess it's perfectly normal that there is a decision, I guess it's perfectly normal that there are criteria for making a decision and that, before the decision was made, some of the effects of that decision have been established. And I thought it was logical that these materials existed and that they just needed to be delivered. I get the impression that in fact this very important area is being run in a very narrow circle of people, and I think it's the only area in which this Parliament is neither business, nor legal, nor constitutionally able to enter. He's completely excluded from this parliament. So, foreign policy, especially in this area in the DKP network, is completely excluded, and we can't even get information about what's going on in that area. I understand that the problem right now is to conduct a discussion without having any material. Given that we have decided that this material should be primarily the decisions we are going to discuss, I am prepared to accept that we withdraw this item from the agenda today, but on the condition that it is considered at the next session, not at one of the next sessions, in order to have a serious debate. Of course, I can discuss it today, as far as I'm concerned. But I think a full debate would be the only possible option with this information. So, I'm ready to accept, and I think the College agreed yesterday on something like that, so to take this off, but with a commitment, so to consider the next session of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13574	Thank you. Is there another debate? Dear Ambassador Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13575	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, based on Article 148. Rules of Procedure... I propose to the House of Representatives that we consider and possibly adopt a resolution on the necessity of returning to our work on those issues directly concerning integration processes that BiH is seeking and rationalising the official travels of all BiH officials abroad. The details of this resolution should it be included in the agenda, in writing. Here, it can be shared to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13576	Thank you. However, in consultation with the Secretary of the Kolegijum, it seems to me that the conditions laid down in Article 148 are not met to put the resolution on the agenda today and I think it can be put on the next session in the agenda. So, today, deliver the proper service. On the other hand, does anyone else have a discussion about the agenda? Here you are, dear Ambassador Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13577	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know that in the previous meeting of the House of Representatives several times, at the 59th session, then at the 73rd session, debates were held in very dramatic circumstances about the problem of de-certified police officers. You know that the House particularly at this second session, as I recall, even unanimously then adopted certain conclusions. Unfortunately, the realization of these conclusions fell at a bad time, and then we used the opportunity to try to update it in another way, by MP Selim Bešlagić asking a parliamentary question about it. But unfortunately, these days under, whether, in the mask of police reform, there may be some seemingly small things, actually big things, and the only serious things for those people that are concerned. For that very reason, Mr. Chairman, I suggest that you, if you will, make a deal. I think it is high time that in the Council of Ministers or Mr Špirić who was then, whether, an MP, even chaired this House, was very much for these conclusions. And it's possible that in these 10 months, nine, they had to get along a little bit, so they didn't get to put this on the agenda... because of the other laws that were the subject of their consideration, but I think it's time to put an end to those conclusions anyway. I therefore propose, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman, that or that we say today about the agenda point, so we commit them to come to us maybe another time, or if you agree to agree that we have a point of agenda for the next session of Parliament: 'Information of the Council of Ministers on the realization of the conclusions of the 59th and 73rd House of Representatives to resolve the presentation of the Association of Decertified Officers'. It's my suggestion if we can't make unnecessary ones here, so to speak, a parade and try to solve it. If you don't mind, I'm running for this item on the agenda, and if you're okay with it being for the next session, since we've missed this much, it's not a problem for any more sessions to pass. And here I am, if you're okay with next time, we accept, if not, I'd like to make a statement about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13578	Thank you. Dear Messenger Malić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13579	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I hope you will adopt the initiative I propose and support this House's decision. It's about the next one. In line with the letter from the Association for Care for Patients and Patients with Breast tumours in BiH from 10 September of this year, which was sent to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs, I propose that today's meeting all MPs of the House of Representatives decide to allocate 100 KM funds at least to support the insistence of this association to buy two mobile mammographs to assist in early breast cancer detection in BiH. In the same way, I call for all the members of the House to be involved in this charity action and in the educational-humanitarian campaign of raising awareness of breast cancer carried out by the Association, and for the chairman of all the ministers and their deputies in the Council of Ministers. In addition to these initiatives, I also delivered a letter to the Association of Care for Patients and Patients who were suffering from breast tumors directed by nine NGOs. I, Mr. Chairman, really hope that this will be at least different today on the agenda, so that we can make one such decision and that we can also participate in this humanitarian action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13580	Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović: Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13581	I understand that we have a agenda point: a debate on the agenda. I would ask that the initiatives that have been launched and this of counterpart Malić, including two points, proposed agenda points for the next session, be translated into initiatives at the agenda point that is scheduled for this. I'm asking you to go back to the agenda debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13582	Thank you. It's an incorrect quote. Here you are, dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13583	My kolegica Hadžiahmetović didn't come here 15 days ago, so she knows what practice she used to be here. I'm information, and that's the way it used to be, I suggest this agenda point, but we've had a chance before, and we've agreed that if the College thinks that this agenda point would be good, but the explanation is that it can't because it's not prepared. I am prepared to reach a working conclusion as we have previously made – to reach a working conclusion that this is the point of the agenda at the next session. If you're not ready for such a thing, then I'll ask for a statement. I've been doing business, colleague Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13584	Thank you. You asked for a word? Correction of the incorrect quote: the honourable Member of Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13585	Col. Denis Bećirović and his colleague Lagumdžija bid two points, i.e. they proposed two points of the agenda for the debate at today's session, and if the conditions have not been met, or if this House is not declared to be in today's session for the next one. In that sense, my colleague Lagumdžija, I listened carefully to what you and your colleague Bećirović suggested. In this regard, I have proposed that, after a statement on the agenda, if these points do not pass, respecting the specific weight of the proposal, you should translate it into an initiative to put it on the agenda at the next Parliament session in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13586	Now we've caused a storm, let's say, replica. First came the honourable Ambassador Novaković; you are giving up. Dear Ambassador Bećirović, you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13587	Oh, it's very short. Mr. Chairman, I fully support you if you will stick to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives from the beginning to the end, and I think we should stick to the Rules of Procedure. In that sense, what is proposed is proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and this is not the first session of the House of Representatives but is 15, only in this assembly, is it, and this is the practice we had in previous sessions. Therefore, we are not inventing hot water today, but we are doing as we have done so far and as the current Rules of Procedure prescribes, possibly until we change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13588	Thank you. If there are no more applications for discussion, allow me to recapture what the esteemed colleagues and colleagues have suggested. First of all, we have a proposal for a respected MP, Bećirović, in connection with the item on the agenda, which reads: Consideration of the implementation of the programme objectives of seven political parties, SNSD, SDA, SBiH, HDZ and HDZ 1990, PDP and the People's Party Work for Betterment, as of 3 January 2007, with a special reference to the definition of the operational plan for the implementation of that agreement. This will be made known to the House, and after that which agenda will be the point of adoption. I would ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! Your proposal – a total of 15 votes "for", 19 "against", "compatible two" – did not receive the general majority and thus did not enter the agenda of this session today. The following proposal had an important letter from Hadžiahmetović, where the discussion held by Ambassador Novaković was in the sense that – if we agree, this could be the point of the agenda of the next session. If the honourable Member has any objection to this, I would leave it as a point of the agenda of the next session, if we all agree? You suggested he take it off, but you didn't say it was next. Can we agree that it will be for the next session of this agenda? Thank you. No, we don't have to vote on this because we agreed that it would be a part of the agenda at the next session, and we in the College will try to provide additional materials for this session. We have proposals that the honourable MP Lagumdžija has proposed to put the agenda item Information Council of Ministers on the implementation of the conclusions of the 53rd and 73rd session of Parliament on the issue of decertified police officers on the agenda today, and we will make a statement. Can we agree that this is the agenda point for the next session, that it's an arrangement in the House? Apparently, no one was against anything and I think that's the point of the agenda of our next session. We have an initiative or a conclusion or a decision, I was not very well aware of what the honourable Member Malić asked us to do, but I think it would be a good idea to end it this way: that your initiative should be given to the Kolegijum, after we set up a certain commission that is in this regard and then that this commission proposes to the House the way that we solve it. I think that's the way we can get out of this. Do you agree with that? Thank you. Dear Ambassador Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13589	You see, I think – of course, this is procedure etc. – that this call that Mrs. Malić made here practically can be realized immediately. It's an individual thing. So, I suggest that MPs simply take the bill and pay as much as they think they should pay that we don't make a procedural mess out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13590	I'd like to ask you not to open an argument about this right now. But if you have a wish, since I think this is an important thing, we can make an exception. You wish, Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13591	If I may, the chairman, just to support Mr Belkić's proposal, because this is an individual matter for each MP and each of us can, therefore, and without some point of the agenda or special debate, make a decision. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's not a dispute, but I'm saying, I think we can handle it this way as Mr. Belkić suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13592	Wait a minute, please. I see that this has just caused a debate and I'd like to get out of this in a very simple way. We have here suggested that this initiative be addressed to our commission, most likely for human rights and refugees, which would suggest what was proposed here, both by Mr Belkić and Mr Novaković. Let us not now discuss whether it is a request from the House or whether it is the will of each of us MPs. So let us refer this to our commission, let it deal with this issue, and let them propose to the MPs a solution that she thinks is best. I think that proposal was the best and don't let us go about it now. Do we agree on that? Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13593	I'm sorry that this is how we ended up discussing this, this very valuable initiative. All MPs received a letter from the Association. Among other things, it has been proposed that during the month of October/lipada MPs of the House of Representatives in public appearances during meetings, official meetings, etc. on the left lapel wearing a pink ribbon, a protected sign of this campaign. In this regard, I would ask the College to consider that for the next session, therefore, which will take place during the October month, when this campaign is marked, it will provide the presence of representatives of the Association who would also thus participate in this campaign, to ensure participation in the campaign.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13594	Thank you. Wait a minute, please, since everyone wants to support this action in some way, I'll tell you then the steps that the College has taken about it. So we responded positively to the letter, we asked all MPs here in Parliament to deliver badges so that those who wanted to, we asked them to come here and talk to us. So, all the previous actions you've been talking about, we've already done. It may be my fault that I didn't say it, but I think it's a way to get to our commission, and I'm not banning anyone from any MPs, so we gave you this notice in front of the benches, to get involved in this action right away. I think this is enough explanation to finish this part of the agenda and start working. Are you satisfied with this explanation? Thank you. Since we practically took just one act off the agenda and moved it to the next session, I find that at the 15th session of this house... 1. Records from the 13th and 14th session of the House of Representatives; 2nd Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development; 4. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on wine, brandy and other grape and wine products; 5. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Integrated Car Schedule Plans; 6. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a draft framework law on secondary vocational education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the second reading law) – new Rules of Procedure; 7. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the amendment of Ambassador Milorad Živković to the draft law on legal aid in civil matters; 8. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, 9. The Commission’s report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a draft law amending the Customs Policy Act; 10. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the appointment of the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Serbian and Bosniak people; 11. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on Mensur Šehagić's predlog for the appointment of a member of the BiH concession commission; 12. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the confirmation of the appointment of Ljerka Marić as Director of the Economic Planning Directorate; 13. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Husein Nanić on the discussion of the BiH Council of Ministers' information on the implementation of the conclusions of the House of Representatives adopted under the Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2007; 14. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for conclusions on the discussion of the Information on the situation and trends in the BiH labour market from June 2006 to June 2007 (a) Denis Bećirović, Conclusion No.2 under (a) and (b), (b) Azra Hadžiahmetović, (c) Jerko Ivanković Lijanović and (d) Adem Huskić; 15. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Šemsudin Mehmedović on the examination of information from the Office on complaints about the activities undertaken with a view to overcoming the problem in the work of the Office to consider complaints by applying certain applicable rules with the proposal for a conclusion; 16. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 17. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 18. The request of MP Milorad Živković to consider the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 19. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration; 20. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Legal and Commercial Transport; 21. Proposal for a Law on Immunity of Bosnia and Herzegovina with Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission; 22. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act in BiH; 23. Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act; 24. Proposal for an internal audit law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 25. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the audit carried out in 2006 (a) the following institutions (a) the Institute for Standards, Metrology and Intellectual Property of BiH, (b) the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, (c) the Agency for Market Control of BiH, (d) the Fund for Return to BiH, (e) the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (SIPA), (f) the Institute for Accreditation of BiH, (g) the Agency for Statistics of BiH, (h) the Agency for Public Procurement, (i) the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH, (j) the Agency for Food Safety of BiH 26. Proposal for a closure of the Finance and Budget Commission on the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH for 2006; 27. The appointment of members of the Joint Commission of both homes to bring together the same text of the Law on the Agency for Pre-school, Primary and Secondary Education, b. the Framework Law on Pre-school Education and Education in BiH, the Law on Radiation and Nuclear Security in BiH. Now we're going to work on our adopted agenda. Point one is Ad. 1. Minutes from the 13th and 14th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13598	I answered for business intervention, first. I suggested, when proposing the agenda, whether, in addition to the agenda, you, the chairman, had read exactly what the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives said, how many MPs could speak within the agenda, and I support you in this effort to strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure. So I ask you and the College: How will you at the beginning of the first item of the agenda allow MPs in the House of Representatives to implement this first point in accordance with Articles 153 and 154 of the current Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives? If you need a 10-minute break on this answer, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13599	Is there anyone else who might be able to comment on the question that was delivered? We were going to do this part of the agenda as we've done before. I don't know what you specifically meant, maybe on the transmission of the session from RTVBiH, because it's a business obligation. However, yesterday at the Extended College was also the director of Mr. Agović's TV service, and the president of the club, and I think we discussed it at the Extended College. I think you've received information from your club president. If there's anything else that you think has been broken by the Rules of Procedure, please sign in and say the Rules of Procedure have been broken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13600	Well, I think it'd be good if someone read us article 153 and 154. Rules of Procedure. It's not just about TV transmission. Here, let's say, as MPs, we'd like to ask a question to someone from the Council of Ministers, one of the ministers. We have a right to the Rules of Procedure to seek an oral response. Who can an MP from the House of Representatives ask a question at this point? What's more, here's the first time I've seen and not even one minister from the Council of Ministers is here. That is why I ask you most seriously how you will enable us to implement this point in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or if we enter into the process that the Rules of Procedure apply to some Members, and others are not valid, and others are not valid, then we also know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13601	Does anyone else have any questions about that? We can set ourselves up according to Mr Bećirović's initiative not to discuss this agenda point today, to interrupt here because the Council of Ministers has not come. Parliament needs to be made aware of that. Wait a minute, please. So we have the opportunity to make this initiative known to the House, to move forward with questions and answers, or to break this point, by giving a break for the Council of Ministers to come or not to consider this item of the agenda today. I would also like to inform you that we have sent a letter to the House of People from the College of the House of Representatives – Are they agreed to organise a joint session, which is also a business obligation, in which you MPs would directly ask the Council of Ministers. They agreed with us. We intend to hold that session half this month. We also sent a letter to the Council of Ministers informing him that this is our business obligation and asking them to be at that session. So we can discuss this today, and we can discuss it at that session half this month. It's up to Parliament to determine about this. Here you are, Jovičić, the honourable messenger.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13602	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, it is essential to ask these parliamentary questions when there really is no one here. If you remember, last session I asked a question for the first four chairs in the second row, here five, there's six -- there's no one. This has really become more intolerable. And, if this Parliament, because the Council of Ministers ignores us, makes a circus - I really don't want to participate in that story, especially because someone has to go out to the public and the people, ask what you're doing there! There are countless parliamentary questions and initiatives coming from the people, and we always say, who chose us, and we can't ask them here, we have no one to wait for. Please remember, at the 2nd session, I keep saying, they are unable to answer a parliamentary question about their privileges, about their rolling stock, about their advisors, about their cell phones, about their commissions, they are not capable. So who am I going to ask today's parliamentary question? Well done to you and the College and the professional services of our Parliament who send them, but what a correspondence! They're sent to them, and they're not responding! So please, if possible, whatever legal act, proposal, the initiative comes from the Council of Ministers' Proposer, and they are not there, that we are not discussing it at all. Did you follow what the people of the international community and Mr. Gregorijan said – the greatest responsibility is in Parliament. He didn't do anything. He didn't adopt anything. So what do we adopt when there's no initiative, people? What are we gonna do? Let them say who they're responsible for once! If there's no initiative and no proposal from the Council of Ministers, and now it's our fault we didn't adopt. Please don't let this happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13603	Thank you. I just want to warn the MPs of a certain situation regarding business matters. As you know, you've received here in front of you the parliamentary questions that have been asked, which are not answered. In total, there are 204 asked questions. It was answered to 109 and the number of questions to which the answer was not delivered was 95. We need to seriousise this institution by asking questions, but also by asking responsibility from the Council of Ministers. We have a chance to break this agenda today or take a half-hour break and ask the Council of Ministers to come so we can continue this agenda. I suggest that Dom plead it out. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Did you want a proposal or should we vote on what I'm proposing?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13604	The Honorable Chairman, may I? In fact, it's that we're not going to solve anything with a break or a delay today asking questions. It's about one deeper thing. Nor is this the first time we have asked questions like this, nor is it the first time we have discussed the Council of Ministers' responsibility to Parliament. So, I think we should finally understand, I've said that several times, that the commotion and the ignoring that is obvious by the Council of Ministers towards this House will be until then, as long as this House behaves like this. We're full of bitterness here, criticism, dissatisfaction, and things go the way they go. Look, look at our agendas. How much is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13605	Come on, please, let's limit ourselves to this today as far as the agenda is concerned, it's: MPs' questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13606	I'm on the agenda, and I want to ask a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13608	My particular question, since you won't let me further explain. Please, is the agenda item open?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13609	You were going to say something that was an incorrect quote or a replica and I'm limiting you to say about what you're saying is an incorrect quote or a replica. If we open up, this is parliamentary questions and answers, you have the right to ask a question and an answer. I could also tell Ambassador Bećirović to forward the issue in writing, but I tried to answer his question in a reasonable way. Therefore, we will not enter into a discussion on parliamentary issues, but we will ask parliamentary questions, or we will now break this agenda point and move on to the next item of the agenda. If you have a correction to an incorrect quote or replica, please limit yourself to it, and when new parliamentary questions are asked, sign up for a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13610	I'm sorry, but previous discussions also went in the sense that it is not a problem here whether there are ministers or not, but rather a problem in the work of this parliament. This is mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13611	That's why I asked you to let me ask Dom to vote on it. So don't talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13612	And here, if I'm up, then I want to make a statement that we're not interrupting the session, because this is nothing new, this is the setting, we're doing, the 15th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13613	Okay. Please, is there anyone involved with the Rules of Procedure or the incorrect quote or the correction of the quote? I'll give you my word. The rest can only be done if the application is for questions and answers. Here you are, Reverend Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13614	Dear colleagues, if we wish to treat the Rules of Procedure precisely and responsibly, in Article 153. The Rules of Procedure which discusses the oral response have indeed been said that answers to questions can be given immediately at a session if members of the Council of Ministers are present and are able to answer. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure establish the possibility of oral responses and in some ways, however, does not make it imperative, which of course is not good, but is so in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, we do not have a business obligation to ensure here the ability to vote against delaying the point because there are no members of the Minstar Council present. So I suggest that those who want to ask a question ask. However, on your proposal for a conclusion, I would like to make a little more specific because there is indeed a chapter in Article 157 that talks about a joint session, a question and an answer, where it is said that at least once in six months, the College organises a special joint session of both homes on the subject of MPs, the Council of Ministers answers. For these dialogue-type sessions, conditions for direct transmission have been met, etc. etc. and all that goes on. I therefore propose to continue with the questions and to reach a conclusion - that this session with whose organisation we are already late, as far as the Rules of Procedure is concerned, is being organised for the longest time in a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13615	Thank you. Does he have a honourable MP, Bećirović, perhaps? Thank you. As far as I can figure out from this, we will continue the questions and answers regardless of anyone from the Council of Ministers, and we will give the order again as we did last time that we expect them to be at the next session and we also expect to hold a joint session half this month. On the other hand, I would like to ask the MPs that this session today can be completed very quickly and expediently and that we can also begin to deal with ourselves, which may be the worst message in BiH. So try to focus on what's our agenda, so we can finish this session in time. Thank you. Please, if there isn't anyone commenting on the questions you've received, please sign up for questions. Dear Ambassador Bahtić first reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13616	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. Let me tell you that I've been in touch twice but you may not have seen me, but I support the discussion of my fellow Genjac, so it's okay. I am the one who has asked the most questions and I have received the least answer and I do not accept Parliament's responsibility, the responsibility of those who do not answer our questions. For today, I have a question -- it says here that I got the answer, but I didn't get it -- for the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications. I asked the question: What will the Ministry of Resorship do to protect BiH's interest in building the Peljesac-land bridge in Croatia because Croatia has opened a tender for building a bridge without our notice. I didn't get any answers. And today my question is again for the same Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH. - What has the restoring ministry done and what will it do to protect BiH's interest in building the Peljesac Bridge - land in Croatia because Croatia has opened a tender and works are due to begin in half of October based on media reports? I ask the ministry's resolute minister and ministry to take all necessary measures to protect BiH's interest. I didn't get an answer. And I see, the works need to start. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13617	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Matić. Let the honourable MP Križanović be prepared. Did you get that?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13618	My question is addressed to the BiH presidency. - What are the criteria for the appointment and replacement of BiH ambassadors abroad, and the basis for which the BiH Presidency has replaced before the end of Ambassador Lidija Topić's term in Brussels and Darij Krstičević in Austria, and Ambassador Miroslav... in Parliament in the Vatican? Based on what criteria have new ambassadors been appointed to Vienna, Belgrade and Brussels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13619	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13620	Thank you, Chairman. I asked a parliamentary question five months ago that I didn't get a deal. It's specifically about information formed by the Commission to conduct... the selection of the text of the national anthem. I will no longer comment on this, but I would like to call on the Rules of Procedure to Article 155 under (5), which says: 'If the entity does not deliver the answer within those deadlines, the applicant may ask the College to place the question required by the oral answer on the agenda at the next House session.' So here I am calling and asking not to waste your time now, not to explain, that at the next session of this House there is information on the Commission's activities for the selection of the text of the national anthem. Secondly,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13621	I hope you understand we're going to ask one question at a time, unless you have more.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13622	This is the question, I'm just asking now to put it in the agenda. Old question, this is a comment. The second question, I'll be very brief, since you don't like... the introduction I wanted to make for this question. So it essentially comes down to the following. - Does the College of the House of Representatives finally intend to take more serious measures to make the Council of Ministers and other bodies (government, government and directors) more responsible in implementing the conclusions and decisions made by this House? So it's not a question of ignoring parliamentary issues here. This is about the hard stuff, this is about the conduct of the conclusions and decisions of this House. Just as an example in two sentences: I will remind you that at the 13th session, we had an SDP initiative to consider the letter of Olli Rehn addressed to the Bosnian Herzegovic authorities. I appreciate that it was a very high-quality, serious debate in this home that has come to very significant conclusions. I will only be three out of six of those; one has been troubled by counterpart Bećirović – that a special session will be held within the next 15 days to analyse the realisation of the conditions that BiH needs to meet in the conclusion of this year's report on the progress of the stabilisation and accession process. The next one was that... The Council of Ministers shall make the map of the path of realization and commitments by the end of the year taken over in its formation, as well as those stemming from the commitment to education and joining Euro-Atlantic integration. And a sixth: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to develop the dynamics of the European Commission's 27.7 letter and deliver within ten days to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Why were these short deadlines? Because the dead line ended in September for many......of the 27 activities BiH needed to meet to hope for the possibility of signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So, it's about the big, vital things that are being initiated by this parliament, but there's no power to... (shuts)...realize. Here, in that sense, this is the question: Gentlemen of the College, what can we do specifically, or what will you initiate? You will have the support of this home to make things more responsible than those who need to realize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13623	I would like to thank Ambassador Križanović. I don't want to answer that question right now, but be assured that the College has launched an action to see how many conclusions have been adopted in this home in the last eight months. I already have the orientation that it is 75 and at what stage is the realization of these conclusions, and then we will see who is in charge of the BiH institutions in order to meet the conclusions of this home, who has failed to fulfil his mission, and so that the House is then determined and launched certain initiatives. But we will also see the conclusions that are made here – whether they are meaningful and whether they can be made at all! In any case, that information is almost ready, and by next session you will have a complete answer to your question. Next to ask questions: Honourable Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13624	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I really cannot give up asking questions but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because this is really the only way to get some kind of answers to some questions. I know from experience that, for example, six or seven times I'm looking for an official – and at a meeting, and outside the building, and on the road, etc. And it's really the only way to get any answers like that. I have two short questions today. The first question was the director of the BiH Federation's Elektroprivreda Federation, Mr Enver Kreso. - Based on what household rules, which are located in the BiH border section towards the Republic of Croatia and which were attached before the war to the electricity transmission system of the Republic of Croatia, must now again pay for the connection to the electricity transmission network in BiH as new consumers of electricity? I'm not going to read the explanation, because I'm putting the question in writing. The second question is the issue of Federation of BiH Presidents to Mrs. Borjana Krišto. - What is the amount of unused certificates in the single accounts of the citizens of the Federation of BiH and what are the further intentions and moves of the Federation of BiH in the direction that the owners of the certificate, the citizens of BiH, get another opportunity to use their unused certificates, except for the purchase of apartments left at their disposal today? According to unofficial data, more than 5 billion KM unused certificates remain in the Federation of BiH's unique accounts. Personally, I do not think that citizens of the Federation of BiH have been given sufficient opportunity to use their certificates so far, despite all this. It would be morally and economically justified to give citizens another opportunity to use their unused certificates through the purchase of a portion of state capital in the public sector in order to finally put an end to an adventure called certificates. I ask the answer to this question and possibly that it is the same because of the huge interest of citizens and the public in the means of information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13625	Thank you. The following has been signed up by Ambassador Dokić. I would ask MPs and MPs to sign up electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13626	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, my first question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, which reads: - Why not yet and when will the border crossing of Gradina – Jasenovac be opened between BiH and Croatia for goods traffic? I just want to remind you that the European Commission, which donated over 3m euros, as far as I can see, has handed over this project to the Directorate for indirect taxation in January of this year. It's for travellers and goods. So far, it only works for passenger traffic. The entire region of Prijedora, Dubice, Kostanice, Sansko Mosta and, in part, Novi Grada uses the border crossing in Gradišca, which is muffled and where it is waiting for hours and hours. I don't want to point out a number of what it would mean to open this crossing, which is what all the conditions are for. I want to say that the transition was projected in that period, that it was also one of the crossings that was projected as a common transition between BiH and Croatia and here and here, and this was wanted to be given to the importance of co-operation with, in this case, neighbouring Croatia. The second question was also addressed to the Council of Ministers. - What will the Council of Ministers do to correct the politically unconscious and ignoring decision of the National and University Library of BiH in Sarajevo by which many Serbian and Srbin Hrvat are attributed Bosnian as their native language? Just to remind you that the National and University Library of BiH in Sarajevo has catalogued hundreds of Serbian and Croatian writers and thousands of their works under the command of the Bosnian language. Andric's ekavica, for example, is in 54 books in Bosnian according to this catalogue. In this language are works by Branko Ćopić, Petar Kočić, Josip Broz Tito, Antun Branko Šimić, Ivan Goran Kovačić, Vladimir Nazor, Jovan Skerlić, Aleksa Šantić and many others. Modern Serbian and Croatian writers are publicly advertised, explicitly saying: I do not write Bosnian. Those who aren't with us today, unfortunately, that's not how they can plead. But that the absurdity of the Bosnian language and the Bosnian nation were included by the National Petar Kočić as works written in Bosnian. Sarajevo and the media and intellectuals, this kind of attempt to review both Serbian and Croatian literature and, why not say and impose languages, either cover up or attach almost no significance to it. The only thing I have to point out is that a professor from the Faculty of Philosophy, the Department of Literature, Enver Kazaz, called all this pure nonsense, attributing them to, quote, semi-literate Bosniak nationalists. If so, then it means that advice, then it means that national, national, national, in front of various names, in our Bosnian hergic conditions does not mean as elsewhere in the world of state but nationalist. If so, then it means that the Council of Ministers this year... will give 596 000 funds, meaning almost 600,000 to half-written Bosniak nationalists so that they can function further. I quote a professor from the Faculty of Philosophy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13627	Thank you. The following has been registered by the honourable MP Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13628	I will ask the number of questions that allows me and allows the Rules of Procedure which we are currently working on. I ask the first question for the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I intend to ask him an oral question and hear the answer immediately, but since he is not present here, and I don't know if he was present at any, here is the 15th session, I'm going to have to, or I'm going to have to look for the answer in writing. The question is, therefore, for the Minister of Human Rights: - What have you specifically done with the aim of liberating BiH citizen Ilija Jurišić, who has been in prison in Belgrade for more than four months, and have you visited the above-mentioned BiH citizen who has been in grave danger of health? The second question I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the BiH Minister of Civil Affairs, and the second and third questions are quite connected. - What exactly have you done in the last nine months with the goal of finally receiving the text of the anthem as well as all other European countries? The next question is for the Council of Ministers only. - Do you feel your part of the political, moral and human responsibility that when you visit foreign countries, you do not know the text of an anthem of the state you represent, and how as state prime minister you evaluate the fact that one part of the state, an entity, has an anthem and that the BiH state has no anthem? I must say, in the light of this question, that it is embarrassing for this country to have a functioner who, in the account and in the name of this country, spends money on the taxpayers of this country, walk around the world, and this country is also making it impossible to get what is most normal – that it has an anthem text, so when it goes to diplomatic and other visits, at least it knows what the text of the anthem is! In this regard, the last question I am asking is the chairman of the House of Representatives, the chairman of the House of Peoples and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. - I ask that the data on international visits be delivered precisely in 2007 in the name and in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, both at home, and both home managers, members of different committees in both homes, as well as all travels by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and ministers to the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the following information: - the name and last name, party membership, - the destination to which the visit took place and the effects, and ultimately, particularly important, - the financial costs of the visit and the length of the visit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13629	Thank you. Obviously, the suggestion that we should ask only one question, so that all MPs in this hour who have been appointed by the Rules of Procedure can ask questions for an hour; however, here are four questions. The next MP to report is Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13630	I'd just like to say, warn article 151. Rules of Procedure: MPs can ask questions to the BiH Council of Ministers or to any member, independent administrations, offices and directors. Therefore, MPs cannot ask the MPs, the chairman of the College, members of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13631	Thank you. Dear MP Rajilić has applied for the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13632	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a comment on my two questions raised on 29.3. and 12.4. They were appointed to the Council of Ministers, of course, but to the competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And apparently, Mr. Minister does not think that within six months he should answer the questions concerning the state border in the area of Novi Grad and Kostanica, and the second issue... concerned radioactive waste that should be delayed near the border of BiH and the Republic of Croatia in Trbovska Gora near the Court of the Union. With this, please, means, the service of once again our assembly that this question, meaning, titles directly to the foreign minister to see if Mr. Minister will do well to answer. And the question now is that I'm asking the Directorate for indirect taxation, because we definitely have a problem with the work of this administration because every two to three months they show up down there, so they're actually going to launch an initiative to shut down the facility in New Town, or customs stations, or now I'm going to have to say that this facility covers two border crossings in New Town and Costa Rica. I have the information again that these processes are ongoing. I'm looking for a written reply as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13633	Thank you. I ask all MPs to submit these questions in writing so that they can be classified. The next came Ambassador Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13634	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have a very short question. The question should probably not even be asked that the Council of Ministers, or the RES, do their job, or work from their domain. The question is: - When will the Council of Ministers renew the fixed quotas for tariff codes 0202309000 relating to beef? Namely, farmers' associations have already warned on several occasions that the quotas mentioned in the tariff mark have been spent and that it is necessary to restore them, and based on the Council of Ministers' decision that the renewal of quotas can be carried out at a maximum twice a year. The primary production came under a very difficult situation, as the quota was stopped by the purchase of domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13635	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13636	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, honored guests, my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers. Namely, the Finance and Budget Commission of the Parliamentary House of Representatives in the previous term, on two occasions, discussed the report on the financial operations of JP NEO "The Official Journal of BiH" on the annual account for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2005, at the 50th session and on 17.5.2006, and at the 54th session of 24.8.2006, when the report was discussed together with the Special Audit Report of the institution. The commission then adopted two conclusions and sent immediately to the BiH Council of Ministers for realisation. As the Council of Ministers of BiH did not provide any information on the implementation, I do not see the conclusions, and they were still in the parliamentary procedure, it is the Commission for Finance and Budget in this call for its 2nd session, held on 21.2.2007, which confirmed the two previously adopted conclusions of the Commission in the following text: The Council of Ministers of BiH as the interim founder of JP NEO "The Official Journal of BiH" is required to consider and submit to the Commission and the Representative House an opinion on the report on the financial operations of the Public Enterprise of the NIO "The Official Journal of BiH" following an annual account for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2005 and on the issues it deals with as well as the Special Report on the revision of this institution. The BiH Council of Ministers is asked, this is the second conclusion, to urgently resolve the issue of legal status of JP NEO "The Official Journal of BiH" and make a proposal for a law on the Official Journal of BiH. Since the Council of Ministers of BiH has not delivered any information to date, I ask the following question (so neither the Commission nor the House of Representatives ). - Has the Council of Ministers taken steps to realize these two conclusions? If so, indicate the activities that have been done so far. And if not, why is nothing done and when will these conclusions be realized? Thank you very much, gentlemen, chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13637	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13638	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one question for the Council of Ministers which reads: - What reasons have the Council of Ministers not debated the Report of the Directorate on a proposal for a plan to implement the reform of BiH police structures? Of course, I would also like the President of the Council of Ministers here to deliver an oral response, but I am forced because of their absence to provide me with a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13639	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13640	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My parliamentary questions you have in writing on page 36 of this review and will be continuously renewed until some final answer. It only prevents me from asking new parliamentary questions, but I will insist on this. So, at the 2nd session of Parliament, I asked the question that all BiH state institutions deliver to me the national structure of employees in those bodies. I'm not going to tell you how long it's been because it's known, so I'm again asking the agencies, the ministries and everything with the state prefix to deliver the national staff structure. And of course, the traditional question. - What about all the privileges of the Council of Ministers from secretaries, assistants, advisors and all the others who unduly use all these privileges, and about their fleet, the use of mobile phones, the organisation of various commissions and spending money, and all the calls to Parliament, so, if so, let them and others from the media call us, but this is what I ask for to be answered. And the next thing you know, not to mention, you have a full list here in the review on page 36. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13641	Thank you. On the display, I have yet to announce the honourable MP Okolić and Lijanović. If anyone else wants to sign up, I'd like to ask you to close the list. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13642	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I am launching an initiative to open the BiH Embassy in Albania, with a quality economic department. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly ratified the CEFTA 2006 agreement, which also ratified Albania's parliament. Under the CEFTA Agreement, Albania is the only country in which the majority of the bh market is placed. economy can only make a more significant step, but because we don't have an embassy in Albania (and business people need visas to come to BiH, which they have to take out in Macedonia) this is the achievement of the performance of bh. Albania's market economy is very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13643	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13644	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, my parliamentary question: - I ask the Ministry of Transport and Transport of BiH to provide fresh, detailed information about the international highway, Corridor Vc, in all aspects. The reason is that the past information has been long gone since then, so far we have no fresh information on such an important business and any other issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13645	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13646	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a very short question for the Food Safety Agency which reads: - What has been done specifically in the first nine months of 2007 on food safety checks and security in BiH and is the food quality and safety project related to the primary health care activity of the BiH population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13647	Thank you. And I have the last on the list of honourable MEP Sokolović. I think that's the end of the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13648	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, it is a matter of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Namely, the RS Special Prosecutor's Office appointed the director of the BiH Railway Regulatory Board in June or July 2007. Shortly after that, he was released from custody, but at that moment there was no knowledge whether an investigation was continued or suspended. As the detention violated the reputation of the state institution, it was moral to impose a suspension on the person mentioned until the end of the proceedings. It's a matter of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. - What did the Ministry do, knowing the above mentioned, and has the person mentioned been suspended? and - Why the ministry's reaction was missing, although it was known that it was in the headquarters of the Committee in Doboj and that the contract employs a larger number of people, who are not aware of what they are doing, because the Ministry... The Council of Ministers has just delivered a new Rules of Procedure on the Stamitisation of Works of the Railway Regulatory Board, although the law has been in progress since 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13649	Thank you. And with this, we've exhausted this item of the agenda. And I have a proposal on how to keep working. So, we can take a break from 15 minutes to 11:45 until we all meet from the College, since the honourable MP Lozančić is on his way somewhere, so we can decide and then we work until 13:30 when we take a break for lunch. Do you agree to take a short break now until the start of the vote where we have 15 points of the agenda, where we just vote without debate? Break by 11.45. [[PAUZA]] 3rd item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13652	Mr. Chairman, we have today, we never had a longer list of these reports on the agenda, as I recall, we have 16 statements here, now one by one, about the very big things we've talked about so far. Of those 16, you've reached agreement for seven, but for nine, you haven't reached agreement. Can someone call us the College as a joint introduction, to all of this, the 16 points we have, of which we plead, tell us what you've been doing. Like what? that you have reached agreement: Mr. Belkić, Lozančić and you choose, say, the Ombudsman, to choose Ljerka Marić to choose this for concessions? How did you agree on personal appointments and not agree on issues such as the employment strategy, not even agree on the schedule of integrated cars? So, I'd like you to tell us if you have reached a political agreement here to appoint two ombudsmen, director for something and a board member for something else. So I'm not arguing that we'll talk about all this then when the time comes. But, Mr. Živković, please tell us the name of the College how you came to this and we are particularly looking for Mr. Belkić to tell us if and why he gave consent to the appointment of Vitomir Popović?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13653	... I don't owe you anything. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13654	I'm asking for an answer and your answer is that you won't give it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13655	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija, you did not specify the point of the Rules of Procedure which was violated. In the work of this house so far, we have not commented on the achievement of agreement or failure, or what is the decision of the College, so there is no more debate about these points of the agenda. We can ask that as a special question at the House session, but we have now entered the voting stage. Please move to the voting stage by asking this house. _________(?) Excuse me, it says here that you've reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13656	No, it's not for agriculture.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13657	Please repeat what I once said: The Kolegijum Commission on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, if you are reading well, writes that we have not reached agreement. Now we vote, House votes, everybody votes. Votes that are "against" count. In case there are no 10 votes from the RS or 19 votes from the Federation of BiH "against", the law will pass in the first reading. I'm asking this house who it is, we're voting completely. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! I'm asking if there's anyone who wants us to repeat this vote? So it won't be after two or three points to make someone remember? Please, I would like to conclude that for the Report, that is, the Proposal for Law 16 is "for", seven "against", two "sustained". He's got enough entity majority. That's when this first-reading law passed. 4th item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on wine, brandy and other grape and wine products The law is in first reading. At the 14th session, he also did not get an entity majority. You've reached the Conformity Report. We've reached an agreement in the College. Please let us be clear about the bill in the first reading. In this case, when consensus is reached, there should be five votes from the RS, or 10 votes from the Federation "for" to pass the law in the first reading. Please, there's a vote on the law. Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 22, "against" four, "abstained" was not. This law passed in the first reading and continues the procedure. The 5th item of the agenda is: Ad. 5. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on the protection of integrated car schedule plans
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13661	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13662	About breaking the Rules of Procedure or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13663	Well, let's say one parliamentary intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13665	I just want to say, therefore, that we have now voted on the law, a very important law in the field of education regarding our European path, the most direct and, more importantly, for this Parliament, the law proposed by this Council of Ministers. And that we have, therefore, different actions by parliamentarians, those parliamentary groups whose ministers are sitting in the Council of Ministers and are proposing laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13666	Please, this isn't about the agenda or the vote, this is about the already-constituent majority, please...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13667	You gave me your word and don't get in my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13668	I didn't know what you were gonna talk about. Please, if there's any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, tell us what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on to this vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13669	So, I want this, I want to say this, and I'm going to draw certain conclusions out of this for myself. I want to say this publicly as an MP. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13670	Thank you. 7th item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the amendment of Ambassador Milorad Živković to the draft law on free legal assistance in civil matters At the 14th session, we had a draft law in the second reading, given that the amendment to the bill did not get a majority, so the alignment followed. You got the report. As you have seen, the College has reached an agreement on the amandman. We vote on the amandman, and then, if the amendment passes, and the law, in accordance with Article 89. Rules of Procedure. I hope you have the amendment. So the question was, let me remind you, just the change that this law is called framework law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! 18 "for", "against" 13, one "abstained". There are enough votes "yes" in both the Federation and RS. There's no Federation eight, is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13672	No Federation eight.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13673	The Federation's not eight, it's not enough. College! Shall we agree here now? I'm not in agreement, so we're going to... The college's done the alignment. We haven't reached agreement, we're voting in the second round. In the second round, votes "against", all vote. Please prepare to vote. I invite you to vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13674	It's about the amandman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13675	It's about the amandman. Is someone asking for a re-election? _________(?) I'm looking. The SDS Club is asking the House to repeat the vote. Prepare to vote, please prepare. Vote now! "For" 15, "against" 15, there were no "abstained". This amendment didn't get most of it. Now we're voting on this law as a whole. I ask this home: Who is "for", "against" or "abstained" for the bill on free legal aid in civil matters? Prepare to vote. Please vote. Now! "For" 19, "against" five, "abstained" four. _________(?) We're asking for a re-election.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13678	Now, now! _________(?) We only have a circle on the screen.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13679	We'll repeat this vote. Please be careful what you say, please allow it. We're in the voting phase. We vote! I ask Dom to prepare and vote now. "For" 21, please, please, I will repeat this vote, since I did not vote. And I ask you to appreciate that I didn't vote. I ask the House to plead again... for the third time. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Before I announce whether there is anyone to make doubt and that we should repeat this vote. I find that “for” 22, “against” 10, “abstained” two. Since 10 were "against" from the RS, the law did not pass. 8th item of the agenda: Ad. 8. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act - is proposed by our Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs I remind you, this law is in the first reading. At the 14th session of the bill in the first reading, he did not get a majority. No consent has been reached in the College and we are voting in the second round. The votes "against" shall be counted. Everyone's voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! Is there anyone who might be asking to vote again? "For" 22, "against" eight, "abstained" three. Since it was not "against" entityically, this law has passed. Point 9: Ad. Nine. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Policy Act - is proposed by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs (the law is in the first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13688	In the conclusion you gave us that you agreed on (since 11 September), if I do not have a new one, since 11 September – are we voting on what was signed on 11 September? Will you please take a look? Is this report the 11th?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13690	Just when, no, it's okay, it's okay, it's just a date.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13691	It is the date of 11 September 2007.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13692	You know why I ask? Because you agreed and then finally you said: Members of the College have reached agreement, which I realized, with the decision to deliver the proposal to the lecturers in order to make certain style changes with the consent of the promoters, because the conclusion is a little unclear.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13694	And my question is, do you have a new text with the lecturers that we know what this is about?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13695	Unfortunately, we didn't get a new text from the lecturer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13696	I, I mean, it's just my suggestion: what are we going to adopt because you realized this was unclear? I mean, as soon as you gave the lecturers!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13697	Nothing, we can vote on this conclusion the way we have it. We didn't get another text from the lecturer, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13698	Well, I mean, if you've agreed to the proposal, maybe there's no problem, but.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13699	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13700	Well, you know what? I'll understand, Berize, but not the Council of Ministers, you know how they are. You know, when you explain it to them, they won't, let alone the lecturer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13701	I hope that if we adopt – well, thank you – I hope that the Council of Ministers will understand. Please let us vote on this conclusion. It is enough to be five from the RS "for" and 10 from the Federation "for" to pass this conclusion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 19, six "against", "abstained", nine, there is not enough entity majority. We can use this to drop off at the College for three days so we can do this lecturerly, maybe that would be the best relationship. Here, we'll do it that way, the House will be notified within the legal time limit. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. Report from the Commission to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Member Šemsudin Mehmedović on the examination of information from the Office on complaints on the activities undertaken with a view to overcoming the problem in the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals by applying certain applicable rules with the Proposal for Conclusions (the material from 24 May and 11 June 2007) You've reached the Conformity Report. The agreement has been reached here and we vote as we voted in the previous case. I'm asking Dom to prepare himself. You can vote now! "For" 25, "against" five, "abstained" seven -- this conclusion has received the required majority. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on criminal proceedings under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13704	We invited them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13705	Because they were invited to explain the Council of Ministers' request. I can ordinarily say: so, the Council of Ministers intends after the adoption of these laws in Parliament, they have already prepared amendments and additions to that law, and that is why they put it... in this way in the agenda of our session. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13706	Dear Mr. Chairman, to put in practice in the future, indeed, when it comes to the phase of the law when no one from the Council of Ministers has the law to explain to us, even by an urgent procedure, indeed, that we do not consider it, to remove it from the agenda. Now you have, you can adopt this, if you believe in that coalition of yours, whatever you want, but objectively I mean, let's keep it to ourselves. Here's the law imposed by an emergency procedure and no one's here. There, I mean just one suggestion in terms of appeal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13707	Thank you. I tried to explain that we had made a request and received a promise from the Council of Ministers that in a few sentences what I said, that their intensity was to put this law in the process for one single reason – so that they could bring the amendments already prepared and supplement that law back into this house. If it takes the Council of Ministers, or someone outside the Council of Ministers, and says so here, we can take a break from ten to fifteen minutes, so we ask that the Council of Ministers does. Or we can keep working in this home like it was a practice for this home to decide: when there is no proposing, to continue working without them. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13708	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, don't let us do this. I mean, we're inefficient anyway, I mean, at least I think so. Don't make it harder for yourself. We have the right to ask that the Council of Ministers come to us here, to explain to us something that we believe should be explained to us. But introducing it as a rule that we ourselves will limit Parliament in the way proposed by my colleague Lagumdžija, I do not think it is in the function of a more efficient work of this parlametary. That's why we leave ourselves right. Nothing's unclear to me here. So it's about the law imposed by the High Representative, we certainly can't change it. In order to be able to change, otherwise the planned amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, we must adopt this because it is not possible to go into amendments to this law until all that has been imposed by the High Representative is adopted. So, for me, there's no need to take a break, no need to ask anyone from the Council of Ministers, even though I join the critics of those who rightly point out that our work does not follow adequate support, at least at Council of Ministers' meetings. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13709	As I've been informed, the Deputy Minister is on his way. But here's to opening a debate about it. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13710	Mr. Chairman, I can understand what my colleague Zlatko Lagumdžija is suggesting. It has a basis. But we've long forgotten about taking care of ourselves, accepting the fact that we're a law, even if it's from whom it came from, we have to adopt, without being able to change a point or a comma. There is this parliament – Mr. Belkić, you can react, you have no right, I listen to you when you speak without gestures – so that's where Parliament failed the exam. Can we stop this practice? Here's what we have right now, here's what we have: the Council of Ministers because of some practice that isn't written or legally written anywhere -- that we have to adopt a law that has been imposed by a high representative without changing the comma and the point. So they're proposing it now. We'll adopt him, and then they'll only have the right to change anything. Why can't we change right now? I know it won't go away and this discussion of mine is in vain, but I want to remind you that we have long forgotten our dignity of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13711	I would like to warn you that the dignity of the MPs here is not compromised, that this is life in BiH and ours, to say the truth. Since the deputy minister came in, I would let him say, just explain in a few sentences, their request for an emergency procedure, and that after that, I see that there are, I can see that there are people who have come forward both for discussion and for replication, but since they have asked for a request to turn around, to turn around, because after that we open a debate about it. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13712	This doesn't make sense. Here, I'm an MP here, Mr. Deputy Minister, there's a debate going on, you're giving the word to the Deputy Minister, you're not giving it to me. So I don't want to wait... for someone to belittle them. You can do that somewhere else, this is a state parliament where you know order, you should know order...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13713	I'd like to ask an MP of honor if he feels that the Rules of Procedure has been injured to address and say what the point is... I would ask him to let the Deputy Minister go, since we've been looking for him in the hallway. The man was waiting to address this home. This debate wouldn't have been open, please, this debate wouldn't have been open if a man had been put there in time. It would end and we would keep working. If you want to open up a debate, no problem. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13714	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13715	Here you go, Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13716	One small business intervention, Mr. Chairman. There's no need to make... nervous, we should work the way we've worked and so far, I don't doubt you want to do that. A colleague called in a replica. He has reported his discussion in blagovremeno time, I appreciate that the deputy minister has already come out for a pay phone, I would like to respect what our colleagues are looking for, so far we have done, so always, so it is according to the Rules of Procedure and please respect it: yes, the discussion is under way, there is a replica going on, there is no point later, if a colleague insists, so there is no point in replicating anything later when something like a sandwich is inserted between them. So, please no such problem is, let the Deputy Minister withdraw, give the replica and then continue to hold the session afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13717	Thank you. I would ask the Deputy Minister, please, to return to his position and continue our work in this home, but a little differently. So I'll be the one to determine the course of the discussion. Since the Honorable MP Belkić first appeared to the replica, then honourable MP Novaković, and then the honourable MP Ahmetović, in that order, we will go. Please, Ambassador Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13718	That's fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13719	The replica is at the conclusion of Mr Dokić, or expressed dissatisfaction with the position in which Parliament is located when it comes to such situations. So, Mr. Dokić, you are certainly aware that in the mandate of the High Representative to pass the laws and that there is a procedure clearly specified. And I really don't see the need for you to open it and bring it into contact with the dignity of the MPs. There will be options for changes and additions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13720	Dear Ambassador Dokić. Replication response, please. Are you going to wait for perhaps the honourable MP Ahmetović, or are you going to say so immediately?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13721	It's important right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13723	Maybe other replicas will be in that sense. I am responsible for telling you that it is not written anywhere, nor in the Bosnian Declaration, that the High Representative has the right to impose laws. You can read that easily. That's what practice is about, and that's where I can understand your intervention. But nowhere has he been given the right in writing in any form, in any official document.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13724	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13725	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With or without a representative of the Council of Ministers, we will vote against.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13726	Dear Ambassador Ahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13727	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I do not wish to defend the High Representative, he has the mechanisms of good to defend himself, but I would like to say that all those... who do not understand why the High Representative is making decisions, should take a look at today's listing and in the document will be seen why. Why it is necessary and why the Peace Implementation Council Management Board has made such a decision that the High Representative can also make such decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13728	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadži Jovan Mitrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13729	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for principled reasons, I will be against this law and the next law here on the agenda. Why do I say that? By who knows which time and which order to impose the law, the Parliamentary Assembly takes as its own law, although I have heard from my colleagues in RS that it will be the last law, the 19 laws that we have passed here, that this will no longer happen to us, that we will impose laws as our own. What now has made it simple and these two laws imposed on us are asking us to answer some of the Council of Ministers when they are not their laws. It clearly states here that it is about amending and supplementing the law, imposed, which works, and is asked by Parliament to simply adopt us without any changes or additions. Then we'll have the opportunity to change it. I say we won't have the opportunity to change it, looking at our work rules and looking at, here, we've had 15 points before, so we can change the bill of some kind or some law. I'm just looking at the Constitution, looking at our rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure and the Constitution do not say anywhere that the High Representative can do what he does, except for the Bonn Declaration where he can impose the law, where we are obliged to implement it. Until when, that's the question now? Until the moment we agree and agree, people, what kind of law we're going to be and what kind of law this country needs. I'm sure and convinced that in this way we don't make a state. It is not long-term, it is not long-term until the moment until Parliament has truly passed laws that are in the interest of all the peoples in this area. I'm principled against these things of intrusion, especially the adoption of such a law here. If the gentlemen of the international community wants and thinks they are doing well for this people here, let them accept BiH citizenship, let them be included somewhere in the political party that is closest and so make it clear what kind of country we want. Gentlemen, I'm against this, and I ask the MPs to just remember the last 19 laws when they say this is the last one, and it won't happen to us anymore. Here, do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13730	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković was the first, just a little bit, he was the first.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13731	I want to replicate... colleagues since we understand why the High Representative imposes the law, but we don't understand what he draws that right from. So it's clear to us why he's doing it and it's clear to us what he's trying to achieve, but it's not clear from what act he draws his own rights from, and we're convinced that there has been no use of that right so far that we can find common language on the future of BiH. Unfortunately, some have always put their trust in that right, others have always been against it, and we have a situation today that we have that we have the most ordinary and every reform and no reform can be implemented in this country. So, as far as the SDS Club is concerned, I've already told me so far we haven't supported any imposed law by the High Representative and, of course, we won't support these two laws either.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13732	I would ask MPs to bring this discussion to an end and let the Deputy Minister say something. This is also in the Rules of Procedure. Please read well Article 167 d) and 168. We are here to say, to make a small concession and our MPs, but this discussion has turned... into replicas and false allegations. I think we're off the agenda. I would ask the Honorable MP Dokić to give up his replica so that we could give our word to the minister, the deputy minister. If any other MPs would like to hear from you, please be my guest. If you don't, go ahead, Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13733	Dear Members, this is not the first time that a debate on the laws imposed by the High Representative is being held, so I will say very briefly that the law imposed by the High Representative has been published in the Official Messenger and he is in force. So, the law is in BiH's legal system and will be valid until this assembly adopts it and eventually amends it. Now specifically on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure: the Ministry of Justice, i.e. an appropriate working group, and in collaboration with the tužilaštvo's Office and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, worked to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure and to complete the work, where practically one-third of the law was amended and we sent the law to parliamentary procedure, so that in one part, the High Representative would impose amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. Since it was not possible to find two laws at the same time practically on the same subject, and, let me say, wider and narrow, then the Council of Ministers officially withdrew the Criminal Procedure Act, excluded the provisions imposed by the High Representative, so that the reform of the Criminal Law, practically one-third of the Criminal Law, is waiting for MPs to adopt a law imposed by the High Representative so that we can continue with the reform within criminal law. So, practically we are blocked and MPs will not be able to influence the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act until this law is passed by the High Representative. I think as far as I'm concerned, if you'll allow me, is it said that the next law, that I am not going over to the next point, but it's practically the same thing: we haven't done the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, so that he is not, in the plan... this year, but the High Representative has imposed changes concerning a certain character more relevant to the Secretariat of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council than to his function. So I can't answer some of the questions that have been referred to as principled questions about the possibility of imposing the law, the role of the High Representative. The assembly may, in any case, ask the High Representative to explain, but it would come from the fact that the laws imposed are valid, that they are officially published, and that BiH institutions and other state bodies are of course acting under these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13734	Thank you. Is anyone there? Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13735	Chairman, respected colleagues, we were once pleased to see a set of these laws being imposed by the High Representative and in Parliament, we said that we voted out so that we could enter regular procedures. If we don't vote we can't work on change. The bottom line is that we have to adopt such a law as it is, and it's already in force to change. Could there be any further information on how many of these laws we have and just end this process, I would say, the verifications of the laws imposed by the High Representative, so that we do not constantly have a debate in Parliament on something that already exists, what exists and what we have to end once, so that we can enter into normal reforms.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13736	I would like to thank Ambassador Bešlagić. As you know, at the first session of our session, we put all the laws that the High Representative did not interfere with, put, put here for a vote, so that they could change at all. Currently other than these two, there are nine who have been imposed by the High Representative, with some laws passing past the procedure here, in general the consultation of the BiH Parliament, which we have repeatedly reacted to and as a College letter to say that this... is not the way. However, here's a statement from the Deputy Minister regarding this law. If there is no further discussion, I debate... Dear Ambassador Dokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13737	Mr. Chairman, I've taken your suggestion that I don't answer before and I'm not going to discuss the law now, because it's not worth it. We've made such a practice, but I'm going to ask you something. Since my colleague Mitrović also called for the Bonska Declaration, I ask you to give us a break to copy two pages of the Bonska Declaration. And if there is any possibility that the High Representative can impose something within Parliament's authority, I will apologize to you all for the harassment I've had for several minutes. Thank you very much, and I've never been involved in this before, and I'm not going around right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13738	Thank you. If no one's answering for a hearing anymore, I'm closing the argument. Please state on the request of the Council of Ministers of BiH for consideration of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 27, "against" four, "abstained" three. We have a general and entity majority. I find that the request has been adopted. Now we're voting on the final text of the law. Please prepare. Vote now! "For" 28, four "against", "restricted" three. I realize this law has been passed. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad. 17. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. The law of this point was declared by the High Representative on 15 June 2007. It was published in BiH's "Official Messenger", number 48/07. I'm opening a debate: First of all, about an emergency procedure request. You've been given an explanation from Deputy Minister Arnaut. Is there anyone involved in this request discussion? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. I ask the House to plead to the Council of Ministers' request. Vote now! 27 "for", "against" four, "abstained" three. I find the Council of Ministers' request has passed. We are now voting on the draft law adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. I ask Parliament to prepare itself. Vote now! "For" 26, "against" five, "abstained" three. I realize this law has passed. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. The request of MP Milorad Živković to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13741	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that I welcome the initiative on amending the Rules of Procedure, and this shows us the practice of having a lot of unarranged and irrational solutions, but I would like to advocate that this goes into regular procedure, just to allow enough time for all of us to do so through one regular procedure. There is no reason to speed it up now and to shorten the deadlines and disable this one quality debate. I would like to remind you that over the past term, the task force has been working for over a year and has again made a lot of failures. I would like to say that this is a very sensitive matter of procedure in Parliament, and I believe that such an accelerated procedure, as proposed by counterpart Živković, would eventually prevent one quality preparation and discussion from reaching a final good document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13742	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13743	Well, here's what my colleague Križanović said about what I had in mind. ... I welcome that Mr. Živković, a colleague of Živković, has launched the procedure of change. But you should go to regular procedure the way you used to. This is one very serious material so that ad hoc working group is created in both Houses of Parliament to go through a regular procedure. So the SDA Club is against a shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13744	Thank you. Did anyone else sign up for the discussion? Dear Ambassador Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13745	Well, you see, I'd just like to call on this earlier practice, be careful, which was in Parliament. I understand your right to and the right of each of us to propose a change of rules of procedure. The right to tell you and I've been thinking, so I've been thinking whether or not I should suggest some changes and then this thing stopped me from going in, so that's what I'm doing. It's about our parliamentary procedure, and it would be nice if we all did. All, therefore, MPs, although there is no interference with the suggestion of one colleague. This motivated us, in the last term, to form an ad hoc group or commission together with the House of Peoples, which both representatives and positions and opposition entered, that's the point. So we're supposed to make these together, we're all here legislative authority and position, so we're all opposition. We're doing a legislative function. And for the sake of the more successful and quality performance of this legislative function, for the sake of its dignity to which we are calling, it would be nice, therefore, to, as proposed by colleague Izetbegović, to form together with the House of Peoples an ad hoc commission to search the Rules of Procedure honestly and to propose this commission as last time amended. That's why it would be nice, Mr. Chairman, if you, yeah, that's the procedural way out of this situation, to withdraw this proposal of yours, and we today, instead of discussing the procedure and the proposal, would decide on the members of our committee, so let it be complemented by the House of Peoples. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13746	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13747	I absolutely join the thoughts of both Mr Križanović and Mr Džaferović, etc. If you weren't a witness to practice, so you said yourself for a little while that the task force had been doing it for up to two years and produced what it produced. So, I don't believe, I don't believe... in this way of solving the problem, I'm more inclined to start the process and I welcome Mr. Živković's initiative that we've all been thinking about and talking about for several months now. So I support that this process begins and all those MPs who have thoughts and ideas can jump on that train. That's why I'm here for this initiative, because it's obvious that things aren't going to work out differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13748	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13749	Whether or not he's going to go, colleague Belkić, it's up to us. So it's the procedure we're all handling. All people need to be heard. Look, we, when you look at it, please, when you look at it, so the content of what we have received as a proposal, it contains some things in itself, that I am now fully open and clear, some things that are so far not problematic in the procedure, and are trying to change on the trail of some entity voting in commissions, etc. I hope you know what the content of this is. Now, please, I want these things to be taken by the BiH Constitution and then on that commission, where there will also be representatives of the position and opposition, simply untangle these things, that Parliament does not burden itself with it. We will now come through the Constitutional Commission in a position to refuse this document, here I say now, so there is no work then; then this is not the beginning of a job, Mr. Belkić, then it is a fall of work, to take off for things that obviously cannot go through. Just like it hasn't... gone past the abolition of entity voting here in this House, it won't be able to pass the introduction of an entity vote in the commission, and that's proposed here. And so this is not the beginning of business, this is – there is no work here. That's why I'm suggesting, because this isn't going to work, which is why I suggest we do it the right way.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13750	Thank you. I told myself I'd try to get out of this booth as much as I could when I chair this house. However, since it wants to distort my intentions that were quite pure to make this home more efficient, I want to say a few sentences about what I asked to go for 126. So this procedure does not exclude the inclusion of any MPs in the amendment to the proposal that is here before you. This only understands a cut in time as you know it in half. I don't think it's a good excuse to keep taking us longer to do the things that we agreed here, that some parts of the Rules of Procedure aren't good. I also cannot agree with someone's views to immediately prejudge that such proposals will not pass in the respective commission, which is the Constitutional Commission in this case. I can also agree that those controversial proposals do not pass in this commission, but that the proposals on which we all reach agreement and agree to come to the daylight of this house. So I think the initiative is quite fine, I think it gives enough time to all those who want to get involved in the amendments and supplement this Rules of Procedure. I'm not going to withdraw my proposal and I'm going to ask Dom to plead on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13751	Just a little replica, again. So, colleague Živković, are you well-intentioned or not... or have your intentions been calculated to improve the work of this Parliament, remove the obvious mistakes that exist in the Rules of Procedure that I think we agree on... all or were focused on something else – we will appreciate each individual. We have the right to appreciate it, of course, you and I and any of us. I want to tell you this, therefore, that you are this, this change, which would appear to the people with dry trying to burn and raw. With what is undeniably done here, proven as an anomaly – in the Rules of Procedure you are trying to simply trouble some of the things you know in advance that will not pass or you might know that it will not pass. If you don't know, now, so you should know it won't work, and that means this job has nothing to do and then we're doing this job for nothing. That is why I propose that a working group be formed, that people sit down and that on the task force they clear these things up and come with a clear proposal to Parliament. Because this way we're just actually putting off the real work on changing the Rules of Procedure. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13752	Dear Ambassador Novaković, then honourable MP Ajanović and honourable MP Križanović. In that order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13753	Well, you see, colleagues, today we're discussing a procedure that we should discuss later on. We have now entered into everything in the debate except the procedure. So, the procedure, the promoter proposes 126, we can accept or do not accept this proposal, the law will then go into regular procedure or in procedure 126, and in one and another version of the House has done the business that it can do. Also, I would like to remind the House that in the previous session, the Constitutional Commission had one interpretation when discussing the law that amendments can only be affected by those members treated by the law. So, in this story about the Rules of Procedure, we cannot consider other members, nor do we modify the members other than those treated by this law. Since this isn't a complicated law, so I don't see any reason why we'd be making a decision today to form a working group. It's not a problem to bring it in and clear all the Rules of Procedure, but to separate it from this law. I simply suggest we end the procedure with this law. It'll pass, it won't pass, it's another question! But I am in order to form a later launch of an initiative on the establishment of a task force that will cleanse the entire Rules of Procedure. Because it's obvious that he has a flaw.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13754	Thank you. Dear fellow Ajanović, on a higher level. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13755	I'll take my personal opinion. I think every MP has the right to submit both initiatives and laws and amendments, because that's his, his right. However, I must say that here in my long-standing practice I have been often in various, different assembly compositions, and that it has never been the custom for the Rules of Procedure to change the amendments and for the Rules of Procedure to be changed in such a simple way. I am more inclined to believe that the Rules of Procedure – that a group should be formed that should review the entire Rules of Procedure and bring forward a proposal to amend a particular Rules of Procedure, which would be adequate and appropriate for the work of this House. I consider, since there is a request here to launch an initiative or better put forward an amendment, considering the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure, I think it would be more meaningful if we today, and this is certainly the truth that he was saying... Džaferović, which is that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure should include both the position and the opposition, which does not mean that the voice or opposition or the positions will be heard. That's the thing, after all... that's how all the parliaments in the world are made and there are that we have the same rights, the same duties and, as far as we're going to adopt our opinion, that's another thing now. I would therefore like to take the view that an initiative should be launched to amend the Rules of Procedure...... and that a commission is being formed today, to propose a committee of the parties involved in the amendment of this Rules of Procedure, certainly, counting on them to be representatives and opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13756	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13757	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me a second word on the same subject, which is why I'm going to be very brief. So, first of all, we have to bear in mind that changing the Rules of Procedure isn't something that changes the law, so we have something here that's more complex. Regardless of our decision today to accept the consideration of this proposal by a brief procedure or by a regular procedure, we will not finish it in three months, four. Because it's a sensitive thing. That's why I would suggest, therefore, that we agree not to put this initiative out, that this initiative is going, that it proceeds on a regular basis and that we make one conclusion that colleague Novaković was talking about. So, since this is not about the same procedure as amending or adopting laws, let us conclude that we can act on the whole of the Rules of Procedure, regardless of what we do not have fences and limits on what lies in the concrete proposal for amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure. I think that with such a conclusion, we would allow one thing, to say, to expand the engagement of all the MPs in matters to fix the Rules of Procedure, make it more efficient and simply conclude that the amendment can be applied to the entire Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13758	Thank you. Is anyone else coming to the hearing? If he didn't answer this, I would, just a little bit. Are you answering for a hearing? Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13759	/Shortly interrupted recording/... the conclusion that a... joint working group, ad hoc working group by this home and the House of Nations would include in their work a position and opposition and which would... deal with this issue. I'll write it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13760	We have a little problem of technical nature here, and that's whether to vote first on that request that I didn't get in writing or on a request that's on the agenda here. I think the College agrees to vote on the request for a brief procedure. In the event that it does not pass, the law goes, or the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure goes into regular procedure. We can vote on this request... that you suggested. I suggest that we end this agenda. I call on the House to declare the request of MP Milorad Živković for consideration of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to the shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. I'm asking Dom to prepare himself. You can vote now. "For" 15, "against" 17, "restricted" three. The request didn't get a congregation majority, it's going into a regular procedure, and now we should... We have nothing to say, you can deliver this initiative – a conclusion on the formation of a commission. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda, 19. Ad. 19. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13761	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13762	I said that that conclusion didn't come... you can turn it into an initiative, give it to the College, and we'll consider it at the next session. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I think within this item of the agenda... the debate is over. _________(?) It's not finished!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13765	She's looking for a break, Šefik!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13766	Wait a minute, please. Is the SDA looking for a 15-minute break to form a conclusion and to propose it here in writing. Are you looking for a break? _________(?) We're looking to say something first, and then we'll do it. No, you'll tell after the break to explain why you asked for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13768	We'll say it here whenever we want, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13769	Is the club president asking for a break? Please pause for 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Proposal for a conclusion; I call on the president of the SDA Club to explain the request for a break if necessary. If you want to explain the request for a break, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13771	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13772	Thank you. Please, we have two suggestions for conclusions. One proposal for a conclusion is Mr Joza Križanović, which we have already agreed in principle in the College, but it would be good for this Parliament to declare this too, given that the honourable MP Novaković said something about it... in the procedure of considering the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH Parliament, the amendment action will not only be limited to the proposal but it will be possible to propose the repairs of the overall Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13773	And he's already in the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13774	Since the law is already in the ordinary procedure, it would also allow for what fellow MPs have been talking about so that other members can be given an amendment to... I call on the House, so we in the College felt that, with regard to the amendment and the addition of the law, amendments to these amendments and amendments could also be given to those members who were not currently submitted to these amendments. You said in your discussion that the Constitutional Commission believes that amendments cannot be made to any other member who has not been treated in amendments and additions. Here is the proposal of the honourable MP Križanović that this House be made known that these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure can also be affected by amendments to other members. [[Common discussion]] Please, we can get into trouble if it's out of what's been positive in so far and what's out of the clear law-making nomenclature. Since this is a question that can cause a problem for all of us, I will open a debate about it and give a voice to the honourable MP Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13776	In short, therefore, what is proposed is contrary to the unique rules relating to norming and making otherwise all the regulations in BiH adopted by this home. Don't let us do this... I understand my colleague Križanović, but the right path, therefore, is the right way to meet people, search the Rules of Procedure and propose changes to the Rules of Procedure. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13777	... Maybe there's some need to discuss it again. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Wait a minute until your mic's on, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13778	So, we talked about the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, essentially both by procedure and procedure, different from the adoption and amendment of the law, and therefore we said it was sensitive, and the question needs to be processed in detail that there is a possibility of participation by almost all MPs to say something about it. And that is why this intervention is that it is not only narrowed down to what is treated with the proposal but that there is the possibility of amendments to the entire text of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's any offense. After all, if it is, beware, this home brings a Rules of Procedure, regulates its relations, why don't we change our approach in one of the most democratic ways.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13779	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13780	Well, we adopted the procedure, colleague Džaferović. Adopted to go... this proposal to go into regular procedure. In that sense, I wouldn't suggest that this solution be achieved, I wouldn't suggest this conclusion, it wouldn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13781	Please. Dear Ambassador Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13782	I have to say that I am against this interpretation because it opens the process later and on other laws, because once we do this, then we have to do it always. So, on the other hand, I don't see the need for this conclusion at all since it's obvious that we're going to get into this business and we all want to get in. Which is why now you're making a conclusion that will cause us problems later. I really don't see the need... I would ask Mr. Križanović to give up his conclusion, to make things easier for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13783	Dear Ambassador Križanović, of course, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13784	Well, I don't know if I'm clear. I, if no procedure had been adopted on a regular basis, I wouldn't have placed this as a conclusion. But since it has been adopted, as far as I understand it,... that consideration has been adopted in the ordinary procedure of the Amendment and Supplement of the Rules of Procedure, I am looking for this intervention to allow repairs to be made beyond this proposal, which is officially now under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13785	Thank you. Does anyone else want to get back to you about that? Two members of the Constitutional Legal Commission say this kind of conclusion is not in line with the norms. Other MPs believe that they should vote on this, however, should be warned that the Constitutional Commission has acted against this conclusion in its work so far, and it is up to the House to decide on this conclusion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The Constitutional Commission against this conclusion has been working. So, she's been working on what you suggested - a proposal according to clear norms. It's not in line with this conclusion that we're proposing... and that, I think, that I've made it clear. And that is why I would like to ask this House anyway; so, the proposal for a conclusion proposed by the honourable MP Križanović reads: - In the procedure of considering amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, the amendment action will not be limited to the proposal but will be allowed to amend the overall Rules of Procedure. I'm asking Dom to make a statement about this conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 19, "against" nine, "abstained" four. Since there wasn't enough entity majority, this conclusion will go to alignment. We're not in a position to get along right now. The House will be notified within the time limit. We go to another conclusion, the conclusion proposed by the SDA Club on the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH: - Ad hoc working group is formed composed of representatives of the position and opposition of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly that will propose amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The appointment of part of the working group from the House of Representatives will be held at the first next session of the House of Representatives. I just want to warn you, because that's what the secretary told me, that, by Article 29, it's impossible to form an ad hoc commission in this way. For that to be the point of the agenda, which could also be at the next session without any problems, and I warn the SDA Club – their proposal to conclude that, because of this, this conclusion could not go away. If you want to withdraw this conclusion and form an ad hoc commission at the next session, to propose as a item of the agenda, I think it would be a way out of this situation. Thank you. This concludes the agenda. Moving to the 19th point of the agenda: Ad. 19. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration (Second Reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13789	I don't know if there's anyone in front of this ministry? There is. Then I'd ask a few questions,...I didn't act amendmentally, but I need some clarifications. In fact, Article 30 of the Law states that inspection supervision of the application of this law shall be carried out by the inspectors of the Ministry of Information Society. Nowhere in the law has I come across... an explanation of this concept: the Ministry of Information Society. So, which ministry is responsible for the Information Society? That's one question. And the second question is, it's about fines for violations, meaning Article 31 and it's not defined how and where they're being paid. Since we have previously defined by the Law of Infractions that criminal penalties are being paid according to the scene of the offence, it is not defined here, whether it implies it or here is a different situation. When I get the answers to this, then, of course, I'll define myself about the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13790	According to our Rules of Procedure, the minister and the deputy minister may also respond to the MPs. We have an advisor or assistant minister here. If Dom believes the assistant minister can explain this situation, I would allow the assistant to address it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13791	Dear ladies and gentlemen: Kojo Koprivica, Assistant Minister, as chaired and presented by the Ministry of Communications and Transport. The first question concerned a member of the 30th law in which Mr. Novaković said the job was listed as being carried out by the ministry inspector responsible for the Information Society. This solution, so to speak, we have resorted to the reason that it is currently the Ministry of Transport and Communications, that is, communication and transport, but in some future, in two, three or more years, another ministry is being formed, like science and culture, it can be a ministry. Therefore, it is currently the Ministry of Communications and Transport which, within this transitional period, will enter into force, as Article 35 states that the law enters into force within six months of the day of publication in the Official Messenger, it is organisationally... adapts to this need to carry out inspection supervision, meaning introducing one or two inspectors to carry out the work. The provisions of the Law on Infringements apply around Article 31. So the General Provisions of the BiH Law on Violations which define that matter in terms of: whose income is the collection of fines arising from violations committed under BiH law. I think it was defined there that these were BiH's revenues. So, by the violations committed by this law, if it were to be conducted and led by the court in charge, the fines collected would be BiH's income. I hope that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13792	I thank the Deputy Minister, Mr. Koprivica. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13793	...there's no microphone involved... this for this. So this ministry is going to form something, no matter what we call it now, a control body or an inspection body that will oversee the application of this law. And who normally controls today, who controls the application today, that is, this electronic legal traffic? Džaferović, Novaković speak out loud
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13794	Please, please! He has the right to ask a question. The deputy is here to answer. Please respect each other so that the same ministers or deputies here attend the sessions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13795	Mr. Džaferović, I think you'd ask the same question if you were sitting here, actually I'm convinced.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13796	I would like to thank Ambassador Novaković. Is there a need for a deputy to answer these questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13797	Thank you for calling me Deputy, but I say again that I am an assistant minister. We currently have four sectors and an inspectorate in the Ministry's organization. As part of that inspectorate, we have road, rail traffic inspectors within the framework of bh. ..., or Civil Aviation Directorates and we have, I won't know his exact name, it's an inspector for radio communications and so on. There is no such thing as this matter, because this is a new matter, this is a new law. So, now, if the law were adopted as such, we would have one or two jobs that would be called an inspector for electronic legal and business traffic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13798	Thank you. As... as you heard, it's about new matter, as well as integrated cars were new matter, nobody's working in BiH yet, and... we're worried about that. If there's no further discussion, I'm closing the debate. I call on the House to declare the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Legal and Business Transport in a second reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 28, "against" was not, "abstained", five, a sufficient entity majority – I find that this law has been passed. I think we've done a lot of work today, even though he's obviously got other opinions. Since we said we'd take a break now, and the next law is only in our first reading, I suggest we take a break by 3:00 and then we continue our work. [[PAUZA]] 21st item of the agenda: Ad. 21. Proposal for a Law on Immunity of BiH with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission – Proposer: Ambassador Niko Lozančić
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13801	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the distinguished guests, here I have finally had the opportunity to address you for this bill of law which was delivered to the procedure and about which you tried to raise the dust before it even entered the hall. You read the comments you ordered in the press about scandalous proposals and a rude attempt to increase the country's politicians' great privilege anyway. The Office of the High Representative has also announced that all MPs, before a statement on the procedure, have received a letter saying that the proposed solutions are unacceptable. I'm the only one who's kept my mouth shut so far believing that you all know how to read what's written and that I don't need to add to your mind. They asked me some colleagues why I'm not lobbying for the law. I don't need this law. If you appreciate the need for this country, support it and fix it. If you don't think it's necessary, drop it now. All of us, in different ways, are expressing our views. When I wrote this bill, I didn't honestly expect this much dust. Now that I see how much and what color the dust has lifted, I'm sorry that me or someone else haven't done it before. What is really scandalous about this bill – I haven't heard it yet. What is it and why is it unacceptable? I didn't hear it either. They say it's not a priority, that there's more to the law. I agree with that, but no one bothers to propose to you in violation of the laws, at least I'm not intruding. They say it will allow war criminals and criminals to avoid prosecution by the very act of gaining immunity – absolutely incorrect. They say that we elected officials of this country must not differ in any way from all our citizens – where we are fortunate not to differ, but by the fact that we are elected and elected and that we have assumed responsibility and that we are very different from the citizens of this country. They say you need to take this issue more seriously, because I'm probably taking this issue seriously. I won't comment on this – possibly. They say we don't need the Immunity Act, or immunity, while there are bona fide powers of the High Representative, etc., etc. Many people don't know that we already have an Immunity Act that hasn't been made in any domestic workshop, but it's been made and we have it. Then why even a new law, or why even change it, or why not just fix it with new amendments? Recently, in this house, we have been discussing for a long and long time the alleged illegal arrest of several citizens of Tuzla, one of whom was a representative in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, means who enjoys immunity, but has not called for immunity. It was insisted... that the words literally entered into the name of the agenda point: illegal arrest, and through debate, but through debate neither through the proposal of conclusions nor through the conclusions adopted, it was found that there was anything illegal there. If by any chance an esteemed colleague had called for immunity, I don't know what would have happened! If by any chance there had been a two-way arrester seeking to deprive all three members of the Presidency, all members of the Council of Ministers and all MPs and representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and all judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH -- would our law enforcement agencies have executed that warrant? If it was executed according to one who enjoys immunity, why shouldn't it be against everyone else, or someone would request a re-emergence of Parliament. The existing Immunity Act really gives us MPs broad immunity, but it does not specify from when to when this immunity is valid and how it is consumed at all. How does this even call for immunity and what happens, or what is the order of things, moves, if anyone even calls for immunity? Then who decides on such questions, and does, and how, and who at all can take away or remove someone's immunity? The key question is why do we have immunity anywhere in the world? Do you have any idea how many people in this country enjoy immunity on different grounds and laws? Under this law that I have proposed, the privilege would have 57 deputies and MPs, three members of the BiH presidency, ten members of the Council of Ministers and six judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH -- I did not count foreigners, i.e. with the letter and the number of 76 holders of functions, as I called them in the law, which represent the highest legislative, executive and judicial authority in the state of BiH. They have the mandate and the power to decide in BiH on all the most important issues. Why is it scandalous and unacceptable that they enjoy immunity? Which is a country in a world where the holders of these duties have no immunity, or we still want to say that we are not a state, so we don't belong to what the holders of these functions have in countries, or we want to say that we don't want to be a state! Why do we keep trying to reduce the dignity of our own institutions on every issue? Why are we trying to belittle ourselves, why don't we trust ourselves so much? Why are we so full of mistrust toward ourselves and all that is ours? I could ask questions like this and things like that all the time. When each of us answers these questions to himself, it will be easier to make clear about this but hundreds of other laws that should be in the process, but they are not. This law is not for expanding any privileges, it is only for introducing more order in this area. It is certainly not ideal, fix it with amendments and make it closer to ideal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13802	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13803	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, you've got... A report by the Constitutional Legal Commission which does not support the principles of the proposed law of the distinguished colleague and vice-president Lozančić. You have seen that the vote in the Constitutional Commission was two "for" laws, two "against" laws, four "restricted" and, in principle, the law is not supported in principles, because it did not have a majority according to the procedures applied in the work of the committees at home. Of course the Constitutional Commission has an explanation, but that argument is not written in this report. You have called us in some way, Mr. Chairman, I am obliged, therefore, to give an answer. It should then be written fairly there, given the way the vote is done, is – two, two, four, which are the reasons why individual members of this committee were led to vote in the way they voted. I am one of those who voted against the principles of this law and now, as an MP in this House, I will tell you what I think and thus give you both the reasons and the reasoning that I gave at the session of the Constitutional Commission. BiH has the Immunity Act. I also belong to those who believe that this Immunity Act should be amended, should actually be entered into the procedure of amending that law. This text, which has been offered here by our colleague Lozančić, in my court, therefore the text of ten members, does not constitute the basis, on which it is possible to build some of the solutions that we in BiH need and the principles on which this law, proposed by Mr Lozančić, is the principles on which, in my opinion, it is not possible to edit this matter in BiH. I said the proposed law has ten members. Here, I'll tell you: so, of these ten members, five is about some important, five is some essential, let's say, all the members are important, five are of some technical nature or nature. And here you see, the law, for example, as regards immunity, equalises members of the BiH presidency, MPs in the BiH Parliament, judges of the Constitutional Court and members of the Council of Ministers, so executive power. I don't think they can have the same immunity or the same degree of immunity or the same scope of immunity as those who bear all, these numbered carriers, in the same way. I think the executive authority and the legislative authority must have a different degree of immunity protection because of the affairs of the executive authority and the affairs dealt with by the legislative authority. There must be a clear difference. The minister cannot have the same immunity within the framework of his official business or work as the parliamentarian in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and that is the principle we have, which we have in the current BiH legislation. Because to be fully open, here it is said, therefore, that the holder of the function, therefore, even the executive authority, is thus not going to be criminally or civilly responsible, criminally or civilly responsible for any proceedings carried out under his duty. As part of the executive's duties, there is also the availability of money, the availability of budgets. Does this mean that it is possible to dispose of budgets in a way to commit a crime or to produce civil obligations to the state and then to be covered by immunity? I don't understand it from this law, and I don't think it's possible to fix this law on this basis. The law rightly states that immunity can only apply to the official shop and to the tasks performed by the elected official. Because of the spoken word, because of the work we all do, now as MPs, we enjoy immunity and that thing, that thing stays. So it's our official duty, it's our official shop, but only for that. When we get out of this room, we're no longer covered and we don't need to be covered with immunity. However, it does not promote this law directly in the provisions of Article 3. However, the law in one other place practically introduces full immunity – when speaking in Article 3. paragraph (2) on the inability of a person to be deprived, one who is protected by immunity, to be deprived of liberty, unless these are... criminal acts for which a sentence of five years or more severe punishment may be imposed, but there are also appropriate procedures and practical immunity is extended to all activities and activities of one who is protected by immunity. It's the third thing I've seen in this law that, in my opinion, makes it impossible for amendments on this basis to build what we need. That's why I don't think I'm going further into an explanation – that's three key things... That is why I think, since it is necessary to make changes and it is necessary to address, among other things, the situation that we have had and for which we have had here in Parliament debate, to assign the Council of Ministers to the Council of Ministers – this is a law imposed by the OHR, therefore, which is now in force – to task the Council of Ministers to enter into the problem of resolving the issue of immunity in BiH, in a way that is otherwise resolved in countries that have a long-standing tradition in regulating this issue, democratic countries. Let's take some comparative experience from other countries and then pass that law. Here, that would be that argument that I owe you. This whole thing couldn't be written... in the report. It would be unfair for me to write for myself and another colleague who voted as I did, and then I decided, here, as chairman of this committee, to present an explanation to you as an MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13804	Thank you. Maybe a little correction. So the rights and duties of MPs are not only in this room, the rights and duties of MPs are also in accordance with Articles 10 and 10 of the public assemblies and NGOs, etc., so that the rights and responsibilities of Members and their immunity are not only related to this Hall. Here you go, Chairman, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13805	... There is no dilemma,... but they are also not the rights or duties of MPs,... so the rights and duties are at a public meeting, in communication with voters – that stands, therefore. [[no microphone turned on]] But they are not rights and duties if they are made, for example, injure harsh traffic regulations and make a serious car accident with severe consequences. And I fear there will be no call for immunity in such a situation, and that is not the right and duty of MPs. That's it. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13806	Of course, of course, I hope we understand each other. So it's not just about this gym, but it's about the others. I now have a registered honourable MP, Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13807	My fellow MPs, I just wanted to explain some more of these stories, which is that this law that is ahead of us, that is, the proposal is not such a hopeless thing and that we don't need to talk about. The right and duty of the MPs, you said well and you said it, is not only in this assembly – it takes 24 hours, and it is going through a code of conduct that is likely to be very quickly the subject of this parliamentary assembly. We have to take care of that. An MP can't sit on a sidewalk and drink beer like a normal citizen, he has to stick to some code. The apostle cannot afford many things as he can afford a normal citizen, of course, so he chose to be an MP. But also, in my opinion, we should take a good look at...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13808	Please just listen a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13809	...principles I'm talking about, which is that something needs to be done on that immunity and at all on the rights and obligations of the MPs. I'll give you some examples from practice, and then you need to evaluate whether it's okay or not. I'm asking if it's okay when a traffic cop stops an MP who was driving 10 km faster, 20, or talking on his cell phone, makes a mistake, invites him to his car, that he's sitting in his car, maybe even a rain of romans. There were examples like that he's sitting in his car and then questioning him who you are and what you are, no matter what he's an MP, and this MP is standing next to his vehicle and waiting to see who sees him like this... So, in that sense, there's also something to be done, etc. Isn't it normal that an MP who has a diplomatic passport, and I was an eyewitness at customs, had his diplomatic visa expired, couldn't pass after his fellow MPs on that civil passport, but had to go there to push with, under quotes, with other citizens and lose order with his delegation. So these are all the questions that need to be considered – what are the rights and obligations of MPs. A lot of MPs have to take it from themselves through code of conduct but they also have to have some kind of privilege, relative to the most banal things, if you could understand me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13810	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13811	Gentlemen, the chairman, the appreciation of colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, the largest number of these arguments presented by colleagues Lozančić, as the legislator of this law, are practical and rational, but in my view, the biggest problem is precisely the fact that this law refers to a narrow circle of people, officials of this country, of a different level of responsibility. I understand the motives that led my colleague Lozančić to propose such a law, but I don't think the adoption of this wide-ranging immunity law is a way of fighting the negativity that initiated the proposal of this law. I am aware that, with all the reforms, our judiciary and the law enforcement authorities are still, unfortunately, very often extended hands of politics and are still good soil for the realization of that people's: two without a soul, one without a head. This situation is not only affecting BiH's MPs and senior officials, but perhaps affecting the country's citizens more. We MPs and senior officials of this country do not have the moral right to such broad protection, immunity, to flee from these problems. On the contrary, I think we'll be more interested in full professionalization of justice and law enforcement only if we're on the verge of this negativity. I don't think this law is a good message to the BiH judiciary, to the law enforcement authorities, and it is particularly not a good message to the citizens of BiH who can rightly take it wrong. I do not want to understand that the intention of this law is to protect BiH lawmakers and senior officials from criminal acts, abuse of positions, which, unfortunately, there is. Unfortunately, there are also politically motivated processes and hickeys, but the way to fight it is not such protection, but rather exposure and such opportunities. Let us not think that there are no MPs and high officials among us and those who are prone to corruption and crime and abuse of position, and a great mistake would be to protect them in any way, even this way. I think the existing Immunity Act in BiH is quite enough to protect BiH lawmakers and senior officials from persecution in professional and responsible performance. Once again, there are examples of politically motivated processes and persecution towards BiH officials, but this is not the way to fight it, as those who deserve justice and law enforcement instead of protection would hide behind such protection. I think that MPs should, therefore, be prepared to carry on our own backs the burden of reform in the judiciary and the law enforcement, because that is the only way to speed up these processes and protect not only ourselves but all of the citizens of this country. For me personally, therefore, with certain repairs of a more technical nature, it is quite enough and protection provided by the existing Immunity Act for my parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13812	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13813	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll počeću with this finding by Mr. Dolić. Six times he mentioned citizens, and I'll take this painting as a cream from Mr. Okolić. Sitting on the sidewalk, drinking beer or drinking nothing, or sitting here, those citizens who chose us worst opinions have about us. I've got immunity or no immunity, no one's got a nice opinion about us. First of all journalists who will announce tomorrow that we're fighting for some privileges, so when they read, we don't even have to come to the sidewalk, we're done. So that's where it's supposed to start. And in any case, I've only reported for one reason that you really need to break up more of these relationships; today everyone here is imposing, and they've taken everything for themselves. Take every stranger that's here, so they've got immunity all possible and impossible, and there's nothing they can do about it, and they're telling us you can't have it either. So who of us here would be normal, if someone's drunk driving a car, so we don't all get up and say we don't need to take away his immunity, we need to close him up right now, as a priority, to set an example. But we don't need to take these drastic examples as bad as the law because that's why we're making the ugliest picture of ourselves. Now I've just taken a provision of whether or not the MP is going to drive drunk. Whoever drives his own car, let the press hear it again: no messenger shall sacrifice himself that which he drinks, and there shall be a good reward for him, which he himself shall destroy. First of all, it's the best reason they have to make us all these possible lardies. And let me finish this: we really need to solve this in a better way. Not everything must be accepted by Mr. Lozančić, but a circle of certain people should be narrowed down and this distance should be made from certain places; I mean functions because it is not the same, of course, to be an MP who brings the law on behalf of and against citizens sometimes, of course, and someone who is not responsible for anything. So I don't think it's a good idea for us to be here talking about ourselves fighting for something. Here, I'll be against this law, just so I don't fight anything for myself, if it's for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13814	Thank you. The following have applied for the debate: Marković, Izetbegović, Halilović. Dear Member Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13815	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I answered, first of all, to make a proposal for a conclusion or possible possibility of getting out of this situation so the law doesn't fall and not destroy it to the end, but rather to discuss it, because a lot of predecessors have already said what should already be said. But what I'm saying is that, it seems to me, at one of the July sessions we had a situation here when, you'll forgive me for calling you now, colleague Hadžiahmetović in one situation said that Parliament should adopt a new law or that the old one works on immunity to put certain things here in place and, ultimately, make it optimal. And I believe that with this intention and colleague Lozančić led himself when he took the opportunity and the right to propose, as an MP, a law like this and, but I also want to say that I don't think this is an optimal version of the Immunity Act....to whom we could give the green light today. But, of course, I want to say that there really is a need for this area to be settled, not because as MPs, we now want some great contributions, or, I don't know, by protecting ourselves, but if the BiH state already claims to be a democratic state, then in all normal democratic states, this area is arranged and brought into order as it should be. So I think there are certain quality things here that can be followed and discussed. Of course, there are things that, not to say, are inadmissible, but it seems to me that it is not acceptable for, say, an MP, although he has immunity, tomorrow at the call of the competent authorities, not responding, as... here in one article stands: he does not have to answer the call for an informative conversation. Why don't you answer and it doesn't have to mean... if the MP has immunity to, that he shouldn't respect the state institutions and authorities that invite him to either talk to him or to certain things that don't destroy his dignity as a civil servant or a official. So, I suggest, given that you said, Mr. Chairman, that this commission has not given a reason why it gave a negative opinion on this law in writing, we heard some oral arguments earlier – I suggest that this law return to this commission for consideration and, of course, together with the Proposer try to make something more optimal and, let me say, a better version that would suggest here today for consideration and adoption. So, I suggest that we not vote on this but return it to the Commission's review and, of course, with the engagement of, of course, the promoter to make a better version there, and surely that this 2003 law, after four years of its existence and use, has certainly matured the conditions for some things to be made up and processed. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13816	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13817	So I think that we are pursuing European standards, regulation of the state according to European standards, and this matter should be regulated according to these standards, no less or less, nor for yoga than our colleagues have in the regulated countries of the European Union. And as for these lessons given to us by strangers, I think that the number of pedestrians they have trampled - in the last 10 years, 102 - that none of these murders were responsible for, they trampled... with their own jeeps. So, my suggestion is that this Interresor ad hoc task force that deals with making, that is, additions and amendments to the Election Law, the Law on conflict of interest, the Law on the financing of political parties, so that it can... tackle this issue as well. And I say here they have a good research group of young people who can find the law on the Internet, see how it's arranged in Slovenia, Austria and the like, Switzerland, so they can propose something like that for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13818	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13819	Really, just for a little while. I, in principle, am deeply aware that we live in a country where, in fact, perhaps the shortest one could say is she, I once used her as an illustration, is worth the saying of the voiced Serbian Prime Vlada Pašić that the laws apply only to the Pretincts. Reading this immunity law, I am absolutely against any immunity, because if you look at the reality in which we live, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a black hole in the area of the former Europe, and also in the area of Europe, when it comes to crime and corruption and the black market, trade in slavery, even terrorism, and, if we step forward with any further clarification of immunity, I am afraid that they would still round up those who have, who are in power of the legislative and executive, and who have close ties with criminals and criminal underworlds, would encourage them even more... to continue this path in which they are, because in these discussions on police reform, it was not rare for us to hear that criminals are stronger than police, that criminals are stronger than the judiciary, and that only thanks to the support they have in the legislative and executive authorities. I would be very happy if we had immunity when it comes to freedom of speech here in Parliament and outside Parliament, and that, when it is the responsibility of the people in the legislative and executive power, the law prescribes double or triple the penalties of ordinary citizens. Because, I'm sorry, if as an MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I allow myself the luxury of driving 20km more than the speed allowed and that at that time drunk I can't serve anyone as an example, not even that cop or citizen who stopped me there, and I think he should be three times as punished as an ordinary citizen. I think that if we don't go through a little more severe punishment and sanctioning of those people who are within the legislative and executive authorities, we're going to make a huge crime in this country. We were trying to show here that this country, that 8.5 billion marks of donations have been stolen in this country and, of course, if there is a trial, they will hide behind immunity. We were also trying to prove the ugly billions that had embezzled in the war and after the war. We witness smuggling, corruption, crime everywhere every day and, if we were to try to do this again... protect with the immunity of an official in the electoral, executive and legislative power, I'm afraid that would go in the wrong direction entirely. I advocate that a law be passed by which elected electors, both in the executive and in the legislative power, will be punished three times more than an ordinary citizen, and then, before they go to any criminal store, or go into any... relationship with criminals, they would think twice about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13820	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13821	Here, as it is said here in the reasons for the adoption of the law: Immunity is a guarantee of legal certainty, independence of the actions of top officials in the institutions of the legislative and executive and judicial authorities in each country. So that's how it's supposed to be with us. I would like to say that I support what my colleague Halilović was talking about, and I think we should move in line. In this Parliament and in this country, the citizens of this country we represent should first provide legal certainty and a better standard. And when we do, then, eventually, we can talk about some privileges and protection of both MPs and other government officials in this country. As officials in this country work, they certainly deserve, in my opinion, no immunity. I think it's a real political shame, I'm still expressing my opinion, which is what we in this political situation are even discussing today on this agenda point. So much misery, so many disreputed people, so many people who are threatened by the fundamental human rights that we have every day an opportunity to see, and we here are now discussing how to further protect (under the name of) the unprotected representatives of the government in this country. Isn't there really more to this country than discussing these laws right now? Someone said -- in democratic countries, this area was arranged. Yes, gentlemen, but in democratic countries, people have before that arranged a lot of things, allowed their people to live decently, normally, and not as in this country that people do not have absolutely decent living conditions, that they are the last to join European integrations, etc. But that is why laws should be passed that will strengthen and strengthen the immunity of those who exercise authority. I really wonder, we are all witnesses, at least no one can deny it – the state is in such a situation that we have a complete collapse of reform. The state is in such a situation that we can freely say that it is in front of real political bankruptcy. As a reward for such a condition for someone from this ruling coalition, it doesn't matter who, did he remember to offer such a law in this House. I think instead of this practice to reward the representatives of the government in this country, I think, seriously, that we should think about laws that will begin to punish the representatives of the government in this country. So you want to walk around the world, you want to spend money on taxpayers, no one goes into the world – make the first text of an anthem, so like all normal states, walk around the world. Also around immunity, etc. - You want immunity, so give people a basic right to enjoy this country, and then you talk about immunity. Today on a few points of the agenda, I also see at this debate, some repeat lessons to us, quote -- they're holding strangers, foreigners shouldn't do that, etc. I don't really know what you're talking about! Bog forbid there are no strangers in this country! What you do, what you people in this country tell, how you behave, this country without strangers would be all in trenches in 24 hours. Therefore, someone threw it when counterpart Halilović said it was demagogy. Demagogy is what we today have the opportunity to talk about this law, and it is not demagogy to tell the truth about the situation in this country. To be maybe a little bit and rough -- for me, this is a rude proposal in a country where you have over half a million unemployed, over 800,000 poor, in a country where there is so much misery, poverty and depravity.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13822	Thank you. I would have to warn the MPs that we treat each other with due respect. This is one of us's bill of law. Therefore, it should be treated in this way as if it were a business procedure. Is there anyone else involved in the debate? Dear Ambassador Lozančić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13823	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I, unlike some,... although we still don't have a code on how MPs behave, I won't behave rudely, because I've been raised enough... that my code doesn't need to behave properly, but I'll try... correctly... to comment on some of the remarks that have been made on this bill. If you have read carefully, judging by the debate I have been listening to, it seems to me that many have not even read it. And you could see that there's no intention of standing anywhere, of not standing anywhere by the definition, of standing nowhere by which someone gives someone unlimited immunity from any pursuit. And that there's a provision that, in certain cases, when someone calls for immunity, there's someone who decides. Who decides now? No one. And when I call for immunity, then all I'm left with is my corulence and say, "Get out there, I've got immunity. And it works under the existing law. So, under the existing law, such immunity works. If that's the kind of mess that suits anyone, okay? Here I am not a mess, I'm about to introduce order, to know exactly the procedures. Even for those of us sitting here and for those who don't sit here. But there were remarks that he was given too much immunity for... executive authorities under his duty. It is within the obligation of each of us – we are not required to act beyond the law. So, nowhere is it prescribed that we behave, we can commit crimes, it's not prescribed anywhere. Therefore, it is not immediately within our duty, but also on such cases that the problem is that this and such cases would come before us, so that without hypocrisy, without demagogy, we say to each other in the eyes - that, dear colleague, you have no right to immunity anymore, because you have committed what is inadmissible and we are stripping you, your colleagues, we are removing your immunity and your judicial authorities can do without a problem. So there's no banko immunity for everything anyone does. The remarks that a huge crime has been committed in BiH, now this law is to blame for this huge crime that has been committed. Well, you can see that this law won't even pass yet, and it's already guilty of what was done before. Let's take care of ourselves, I mean, what we're talking about. So, I'm responsible for saying that the guy's observations that this is too narrow a circle of people, so I'm sorry that this parliament doesn't count 150 MPs, so it would probably be a wider little circle of people. I'm sorry the Council of Ministers doesn't count at least 20, so it would be a wider circle of people. But about that, then. So, the fact that we've reduced everything, so we want to minimize it, just to say, and to tell the story that we're equal, everyone who says they're equal with citizens who want to be equal with citizens, I suggest, first, that they give up all the privileges they already enjoy. In the first place, let the wages they have here that are ten times higher than pensions or salaries be given up on average... by the ones we represent. And it's a privilege. Let's give up, let's not just talk... passwords and stories like, here we go, just we worry, I take care of the citizens, no one else cares. You know, look at some prescribed costs, I agree here, travel around the world without any results. I am in favour of talking about it and saying that we will not have those privileges, and these are privileges, especially without responsibility, etc. But if I didn't burden you too much, I did what I did. I suggested what I suggested and now I think even after these discussions, because there were no concrete arguments to what I suggested, otherwise, if there were one concrete and reasoned, I would now withdraw this law from the procedure. Since they were all cobwebs, here I leave you to refuse this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13824	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr Belkić, first reported: an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13825	The netačan allegation refers to MP Denis Bećirović's claims. Denis, understanding, of course, that we explain in different ways, we present the reasons why we claim something, etc., Mr Bećirović argues: that we will, address the whole Parliament, says that you want immunity while 500,000 people are unemployed, you want to travel around the world while people starve, etc., you do not want the text of the anthem, and you want to travel around the world. I say, Mr. Bećirović, that this is not true: I don't want immunity, I don't want immunity, I don't want to travel around the world, and I want an anthem text.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13826	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13827	So, the esteemed deputy chairman, Lozančić, said - that only the flat-rate assessment of this law was made in the discussions, that none of these assessments had the basis for at least such character that would force him to withdraw the law from parliamentary procedure. So I have to react to this thing and say that what I've been saying is not flat-out and say that I haven't said maybe one third of what I'm trying to say in the shortest possible lines, what I should say about this law, so not one third of what I could and maybe I should have said to this opportunity. But here's just one little detail right now, to extend these claims I made in my last discussion for a little detail. So I don't want to politicize. There have been discussions here that have politicized... now with this question: if the law remains as it is based on this principle or on these principles, it can be very easy to introduce this parliament to make a court instead of this Parliament. We must avoid such situations, because there is a clear principle of separation or separation or division of the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial matters and, at those points where they are touched, a highly sophisticated approach must be made to solving the problem. What do I want to say? So it is true that the person who calls for immunity, in fact, the person who does not call for immunity, will not be even considered that immunity and there is Mr. Lozančić right, but the person who calls for immunity, then the decision to remove immunity at the request of the leading competent authority, the competent court, the prosecutor, I do not know at what stage the procedure, the police, is that right, should take one of these two homes when it comes to MPs; they are not only MPs but are also members of the Bureau. Therefore, this home for all but the delegates of the House of Nations according to this law to which the decision would be made by the House of Peoples. And now watch out, we'll leave guilt and criminal responsibility, we'll only talk about civil responsibility. So the situation happens, and the executive authority, so I said, manages the money; look out, everywhere in the world, whoever puts a signature on paper that means money has a different protection when it comes to immunity than anyone else. That is, there is no protection on that. And this law puts everything in equal terms. Sign the bill, for example, now banning things, doing damages, saying slightly to the state, calling for immunity and a parliamentary group that supports it here refuses the request to withdraw immunity. I avoid, I won't tomorrow, when this situation happens that... if this law were passed, to say that I didn't warn you of this thing. This could theoretically happen. The law is made for an undetermined number of future cases, and it is argued and best to be talked about when it comes to concrete cases. I was talking about a case of public traffic endangerment, so I took it as an example. The law must be made so that it covers all these cases that we can... see and pretend to be an indefinite number of future cases. Here, if this law is passed, we can get into a situation where we have, say, someone who has the right to sign at any level; damage done, call for immunity, protection in Parliament, and now we'd all tell me that we're not going to protect such cases; this law could protect such cases, and I had to list this as one, let's say, a constructive example in my head, I'm not managed by any concrete... case and, if nothing, this is reason enough for us to seriously imagine and not accessing this problem in this way. And here, I won't talk any further. I've got a lot more to say, I'm not going to burden you... I ask you all colleagues – support Mr Izetbegović's proposal. We have formed this... Interresor working group and let's deal with this issue the way we have to deal with it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13828	Thank you. Since no one is answering for the debate anymore, I am concluding the debate, and we need to be clear about the opinion of our Constitutional Commission. I want to warn the House that in the event that opinions are adopted, the law has fallen; in the event that opinions are not adopted, we will have to give to our Constitutional Commission, where the law will return, new guidelines according to which they will be determined. One of the guidelines is... which came from the discussion of the distinguished Marković MP: to seek the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration in relation to the compliance of this law with European legislation. And the second conclusion or proposal by MP Izetbegović... is that the Interresor Working Group, which already... is working and making changes and supplementing the three laws, should take this proposal into consideration and consider it. I'd like to invite Dom first to make a statement about the opinion, and then consider what I've been talking about. I ask you to make a statement on the opinion of our Constitutional Commission. Get ready to vote. Vote now! "For" 20, "against" two, "restricted" five. Since it has an entity majority, the Constitutional Commission's opinion has been adopted and this law has fallen. We can vote on this item of the agenda in connection with the conclusion proposed by the MP, Izetbegović, which reads: - An Interresor Working Group is in charge of making amendments and supplementing the Election Law, the Law on conflict of interest and the Law on the financing of political parties to draw up an amendment and supplement to the Law on Immunity in BiH, in accordance with practice in the EU countries' parliaments. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. "For" 19, "against" eight, "abstained" two, has an entity majority – this conclusion has been adopted. Moving to the 22nd item of the agenda: Ad. 22. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises in BiH ___________(?) Excuse me, can you repeat the vote? I think that, yes, if we had just finished... the phase, we had moved to another point. Only if you insist. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13834	The Commission for Foreign Trade is in charge (I'm sorry, I'm sorry, she made a mistake).
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13835	I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Who's calling for a hearing? Is there anyone who might have a proposal to explain it? _________(?) There's no portfolio. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13837	I'm sorry. Since this is going well, should we finish this session as soon as possible, I'll just have a few brief notes. In fact, you're witnessing that we've ratified CEFTA, you're witnessing that the House of Peoples has not passed the law on the implementation of CEFTA, which is also proposed by this Agriculture Task Force and you're witnessing that we have, here are a few, not to say, months and years here and years, protests by farmers outside this building of our joint institutions. In order to influence, to have a positive impact on all these negativity that we have, the Foreign Trade Commission has proposed, among other things, in the set of laws and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. This law is comprehensive to be an answer to those who say -- you know, you need to solve this whole problem. Namely, this law has included most of the excise goods treated by the Law on Excises of BiH; whether in an adequate way, whether the percentages, figures, etc. are precisely affected, this is a matter for analysis and assessment, but in the light of the ratified CEFTA Free Trade Agreement, we need to level the conditions of the adjustment in BiH with conditions of engagement in the neighbourhood, i.e. in the whole region. To make that happen, that's why we suggested what we suggested. We've been trying to communicate with the Indirect Taxation Department to get an opinion as well. However, with the trail of activities that preceded the proposal of this law, we have come to the conclusion that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Management Board of the Indirect Taxation Board, considered at its 38th session held on 11 May 2005, considered most of these matters and gave a positive opinion and sent it to the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, at that time, to mean that it had agreed to adopt the Council of Ministers and to send it to the parliamentary procedure for amending and supplementing the Act of Accessions, which are currently treating this matter. Unfortunately, it never came out of there. And for that reason, this is an opportunity, of course, I'm asking you to really read, those who haven't read, and hopefully it's most; read the provisions of this law that treats others and so on. Blue gasoline, meaning the stimulation of agricultural production. It is not to be ignored: it stimulates the return of the excise part of the tax to those economic operators who use lye oil in the process industry as energy fuel. It stimulates domestic production in the sense that there is no double taxation by excise coffee processing. If we pay for coffee on imports because there's no domestic coffee production, but there's domestic processing, so if we stimulate the import of raw coffee, not the import of fried coffee, then the excise part of the tax is paid once. And of course, as a constant problem has arisen so far the problem of paying excise duty on so-called denatourizan alcohol, it's absurd, it's nowhere in the world, it just has us. And that's why we have an eviction of production plants outside BiH's territory. So that things like this don't happen, I'm asking you to have an understanding of this. This really is the law prepared studioically, not done by heart. And so I ask you to give your support when it comes to principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13838	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rajilić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13839	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you are probably all already aware that for a long time, the Commission, whose chairman I am, or president, has been working on three laws relating to an area that regulates excise duties, tariffs and foreign trade policy in BiH. However, here we have some dilemmas that I, although I may not be able to speak in this part of it, and perhaps someone will call for me to break the Rules of Procedure, I would still like to introduce this home to these dilemmas, and especially since the Commission for Finance and Budget has referred to our commission as the bearer of these activities and a written note that it expects us to obtain the opinion of the Management Board for indirect taxation of this law in this process. Of course, those who do not know I need to know that the law that speaks about the way the Directorate of Direct Taxation acts speaks of those in one part, or members who regulate it, having some ingenuity that concerns even greater powers than I am in this House of Law, the BiH Parliament, having the right to challenge the law that we adopt, which refers to this area and to seek before the Constitutional Court the withdrawal of such a law. Since we had a dilemma and an article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is said to be under f) that the promissor has, i.e. under e) the obligation to obtain the opinion of the institutions and organisations consulted during the drafting of the proposal, to list them, to say what they do, what they think about this law, we could not agree in this commission on who is obliged to obtain the opinion of the Management Board for indirect taxation, because otherwise communication with this administration is quite difficult, not to say any other word. Therefore, the Commission was given an opinion on whether this should be done by the Commission as a promissor or whether it must be done by the College of the Assembly as one stronger body which will ask the Management Board for an opinion. This is because this Act on Excises of BiH primarily refers to revenues in the jurisdiction of the entity, meaning here the decisive role in the vote is played by the finance ministers of the entity, and in case they challenge it on the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority... would get a negative opinion, and according to the law I mentioned earlier, then such a law could not be passed in the BiH Parliament. So, I apologize to those I may have been bothering, but here, we needed to bring this dilemma out here, too, so that we might conclude that this point or... withdraws from the agenda, until this opinion is obtained, that we know what we're on, whether we can go further in the process at all, because, in this situation, we're going to go into further procedure, so we're going to come to the amendment phase, and we didn't get the opinion of the Management Board or the basic text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13840	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? If he doesn't answer, I'm closing the argument. At this stage of law-making, we are not able to, I say, interrupt the procedure, but we must plead. Therefore, we have on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act in BiH. Each one will decide on that by its own definition. I call upon the House to plead. You can vote now! Just be patient, obviously it's a job. Can I have your patience, please? Can we vote? I'd ask Dom to prepare for the vote. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 20, "against" seven, "abstained" two, not enough votes from the RS entity. Since a member of the College is missing, we will have to agree and notify the House within the legal time limit. Moving to the 23rd point of the agenda: Ad. 23. Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. We're in the first reading. On 22 August 2007, the Council of Ministers submitted the draft law to the procedure, and subsequently submitted a request for an urgent procedure. At the 14th session, Dom did not accept an emergency procedure request, but was decided to be considered in the shortened procedure under Article 126. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 21 September. On 24 September, the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs discussed the draft law at the first commission stage and delivered its opinion on the same day, supporting the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate in my first reading and I'm asking the promoter if there's a need to explain the bill? If not, do any of the MPs report for debate? Dear Messenger Rajilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13842	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the laws I was just talking about, but now he's a Proposer of the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform this assembly that, right now, if this law is passed today, that is, this item of the agenda, we will have in the procedure of two laws relating to the same area and we will come to a situation where one law is considered by a shortened procedure, and another law in the ordinary procedure. I'm stressing this. Of course, you've all been here longer than I am in Parliament, but here's what I need to say, is that one law relating to the same area of the amendment should be submitted within seven days, and the other within 15 days. Of course, here again remains that dilemma of obtaining consent from the Management Board of indirect taxation. We, of course, have the Ministry's assurances that they have this agreement, and as I said in the excise, the Commission does not. I wanted one conclusion after the vote, of course, if... this law gets... support on principles - that the House makes a decision that deadlines for submitting amendments are left at the same duration, that is about 15 days, or another conclusion, of course, is not written, I did not write it, it is - that the College tries to comply with the Rules of Procedure to coordinate... these two laws, which refers to Article 101 where the College has such rights, attitude (5), (6) and (7) is talking about it, so here we are to make a decision: whether to extend the deadline for submitting amendments, so that the Commission does so or that the College takes over the coordination of these two legislative projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13843	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13844	We discussed on the Commission... the amendment and addition of the Excise Act and the conclusion of our Commission (I understand that it is now customs) – the conclusion of our commission was that neither this current proposed customs law in front of the Council of Ministers nor does the Governing Board agree, nor does the previous one. There's no way you brought it in that it didn't... we didn't see it. Our conclusion was that Parliament, just a little bit, should I say what the Commission has adopted: Parliament commits the Governing Board and the Council of Ministers to do both of these laws in the package, because they are very important and very important laws that need to encourage domestic production and have a significant impact on the BiH economy. I think it would be very wise for Parliament to go that way, to do these two laws in a package like this. And in my opinion, the unwarranted attacks on the Commission were made when the Excise Act was passed. If the Council of Ministers does not want to propose a law to her, the Commission is right, I think, that both of these laws should be done with this proposal in the package: the Council of Ministers proposes to this Parliament and we should do it right, because we expect all of us, the public, mainly domestic production. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13845	Thank you. Is there anyone else who might be answering for a discussion? Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13846	Here I was, when I was also a session of the Expansive College of the House, intervened in terms of two laws relating to the same matter and it was illogical even for me to be with a range in the agenda points that implies both the time range as if it were two completely separate laws, and now we are in the position of this particular problem. I would also suggest that, given that the proposer of one law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act of the Council of Ministers and the other, which also refers to the tariff, our commission is resolute: that, for the second reading, that is, at this amendment stage, the Commission, on the basis of a proposal from the Council of Ministers, acts as an amendment from the proposal itself, which it has presented to this Parliament. In this way, of course, in communication with the Resort Ministry and the IRS, which would remove any possible doubts, errors, the possibility of going beyond what cannot go beyond the reason for the harmonisation of tariffs with the nomenclature both now and the future and obligations we have made with international acts. Is that okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13847	Thank you. We are in a position to vote now in the first reading about this law. After that, if it passes, we have the possibility of a business commission asking us to extend the amendment phase and to find these two laws on the same commission during that time period and try to bring them into line. I think that's a good way to go, and I call on the House to make a statement on the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on Excises in BiH, I beg your pardon, on the customs tariff in BiH. Did you have one? Dear Ambassador Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13848	On the basis of the practice that has been used so far, I believe that in the old Rules of Procedure, it was said that if they were found in the parliamentary procedure of two similar proposals or two draft laws that treat about the same matter, that one who first came and that the procedure for the law was implemented until the end and, if that law falls, then the procedure with this second proposal continues. Every other variant will lead us into a very, practically complex situation. Who, we will, in practice, find ourselves in a position that one of the proposings will have to, to say,... from his proposal to the other proposal and to discuss ultimately one proposal. That is why I would suggest that a statement should be postponed today on this proposal because we have actually adopted the first reading of the proposal coming from the Commission. So, the fact that he's older, here by this, at least two hours, that he entered the procedure, should give him a head start; this one should put on the apartment bay until the procedure for this bill of law proposed by this commission of our home is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13849	I'd like to thank you, but I'd like you to sign up for the hearing before the debate is over. This is what we're talking about now. One suggests that the two laws should arrive and work together, others suggest that one legal procedure be concluded with one law so that another law can be done. I think that's where the debate was supposed to take place before we came to the polls. I ask the MPs to do it the way I suggested that we vote on this law, that this law should be passed afterwards. They're in different procedures. The College will determine which law it will give priority to if it fails to agree. I call upon, if there is no one else after the breach of the Rules of Procedure to speak, I call upon the House to declare itself on the draft law amending the Customs Tariff Act. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! "For" 19, "against" four, "abstained" six, has a sufficient entity majority – this law passed in the first reading. We're getting to the bottom of this. Did you deliver in writing the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13850	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13851	If it is only a matter of postponing for the amendment phase, this commission may do so when it meets to refer the request to the Kolegijum. The college will... approve it through the House, so we don't ask for an extension of the amendment phase in advance if you agree? Otherwise, I don't mind putting that conclusion to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13852	Well, I'd rather the conclusion go to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13853	Okay, can you stand up, please, to formulate that conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13854	It means that the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission is asking the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to extend the amendment phase to 15 instead of seven in a shortened procedure. Or we stop for five minutes to make the right conclusion that you could read. Or: An amendment phase is being extended to 15 days from seven.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13855	I don't think Parliament should vote on it, that it is a possibility for the Kolegijum to put it. I must warn you that we have passed this law by procedure 126 in a short procedure. With this vote, we practically tear down this house's decision to go by another procedure, but this commission can ask the Kolegijum to extend and obviously in this regard, for the reasons of these and those. Please don't let us tear down the decisions of this home, and we already said that a shortened procedure was adopted. I think this is where we finished point 22. 23, item 24 is the agenda: Ad. 24. Proposal for an internal audit law in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions The draft law in Parliament was adopted on 20 August 2007. It's being considered in a regular procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 21 September. The Financial and Budget Commission also delivered its opinion on the bill on 21 September. After considering the first commission phase, the committee in charge accepted the principles of the bill. So, I'm opening a debate in my first reading, and I'm calling on the Proposer if he has a need to explain his proposal. Here you go. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. I call on the House to declare the proposal for an internal audit law in BiH institutions. Join the vote now! "For" 24, "against" was not, four "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority of the proposal for an internal audit law in BiH institutions was adopted in the first reading. Now that there's a commission phase going on, we have to wait and we can't go to another reading. It's something that's been resolved differently in this Rules of Procedure, unfortunately. Point 25. Ad. 25. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the audit carried out in 2006 by the following institutions: (a) Institute of Standards, Metrology and Intellectual Property, (b) Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, (c) Agency for Market Control of BiH, (d) Fund for Return to BiH, (e) State Agency for Investigation and Protection, (f) Institute for Accreditation of BiH Statistics, (g) Agency for Public Procurement, (h) BiH Agency for Labour and Employment, (j) BiH Food Safety Agency, (j)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13858	The Finance and Budget Commission proposes to this Parliament with a proposal for the adoption of these ten institutions,.... in the note that after the end, we will have ten more, so we have completed 42 institutions, we have another session of the Commission ten, that in the end we will produce one summary report to this Parliament on the work of all institutions and... that we will go towards Parliament and the Council of Ministers and I would like to... once again warn the Agency for Labour and Employment. Believe me, we have well-intentioned that, yes, from this year on, in five months, sixteen were in... in Ljubljana – Slovenia. In my opinion, I'll say it publicly, I'm being notified there by five or six people, and now management has turned that agency into a 'Tourist Agency for Labour and Employment'. They went to Ljubljana again the other day for five days, from Ljubljana the director flew to Ireland. So it's been a tourist season and it's still flying like it's a travel agency. It must once be stopped by all these unconscious directors and also by ministers that they are responsible for public funds. If there is no result, no one can tell me that sixteen times, that every week goes to Ljubljana for three or four days, every week literally since New Year's, and the bill is 2,000 marks on the burden of these taxpayers, plus the phone;...it's nothing private, let the gentleman interrupt, I... will never mention it. But this practice must be interrupted. That's it, thank you. _________(?) /Common discussion/ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13859	I thank the honourable MP Bahtić. Is there anyone else to report for the hearing? We're here, if no one's answering for a hearing, I'm closing the argument. And we have the opportunity to vote in the package for all the audit office reports and committee reports with recommendations. I ask Parliament: are you in favour of voting in the package for all reports? Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 21, "against" one, "abstained" six, with the entity majority – we decided to vote in the package for all audit reports and with the report of our committee with recommendations. I'm asking Dom to make a statement about the package. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 22, "against" one, "abstained" five, with the entity majority – we realize that all the reports of the Audit Office together with the Report and the recommendations of our commission have been adopted, not to repeat them, I listed them at the beginning. I thank the representatives of the Audit Office. Moving to the 26th point of the agenda: Ad. 26. Proposal for the Finance and Budget Commission's Opinion on the 2006 Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations Report In line with the recommendations made by the House at last session during the adoption of the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions, the Finance and Budget Commission proposes to adopt the following conclusion: - It is up to the Finance and Budget Commission to hold a meeting with representatives of the BiH Council, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH as soon as possible to discuss the proposed options for the deployment of the accumulated surplus income from the report on the execution of the BiH Budget for 2006, and then to... establish concrete proposals and a solution and inform the House of Representatives accordingly. This is meant by the proposals in the Commission report from the 12th session we had at the 14th session. You received the proposal for this conclusion in the Commission's submission of 21 September. I'm opening a debate about this conclusion. If there are no, if there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. I'm asking the House to prepare for a plea. Get ready, you can vote now! "For" 23, "against" was not, six "abstained", a sufficient entity majority – this conclusion was adopted. 27th item of the agenda: Ad. 27. The appointment of members in the Joint Commission of both homes is in line with the same text: (a) Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education, (b) Framework Law on Preschool Education and Education in BiH, (c) Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13862	The next session is 11.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-26-0.u13863	The next session is 11th, then next session 31st, 11th and 31st. The seat's finished at 16.40.
