ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u167	..later, in parliamentaryism it is so difficult to start, therefore, strictly in the second and minute that we have predicted it. I'm sorry, too. That's what's going to happen to us, so in the next sessions. We have a long period of office ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, fellow MPs, present officials of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to inform you that there are 14 MPs present at this session of the House of Peoples. Mr Božo Rajić justified his absence, since he was officially prevented from attending today's session. For the 4th session, you received a call and a draft agenda. It's, uh, one. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions, International Obligations of BiH for 2007, first reading, is proposed by the House of Representatives, in accordance with Article 123, paragraph 2. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. I'm closing the debate. About the agenda, please. Oh, yeah, I'm closing the argument. I believe that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we adopted the agenda. In front of the session you received a report from the competent committee, this is the first reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is founded. Now I'm asking, who's answering for the word? Is there a need for the present representatives of the Council of Ministers to say something? There isn't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u168	I honestly think that representatives of the Council of Ministers should tell us what was adopted by the House of Representatives, since this is different from what we have as a base 2 and we can hardly talk about the principles of the Law if we haven't heard what the Law contains. At least let's get to know each other in some way about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u169	Thank you very much. So, I'd just say, uh, Mr. Ivanić, if we had received the report from the competent commission, Mrs. Majkić shared the report here. He is no longer a proponent here and is not in the power of the Council of Ministers' Budget. This is the proposal that came from the House of Representatives. So we're considering, therefore, another House proposal. In Mrs. Majkić's report, it is clearly indicated. I'd like to ask, perhaps, Mrs. Majkić to take your word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u170	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is always unpleasant when the last hour or even the last hour comes, to speak of an important document called the Budget, which they say is one of the most important documents in the country. And not only is this the most significant document of macroeconomic policy. This is not the first time that this important document, which reflects the relevant policy of the Council of Ministers, is spoken of at the last minute and is not the first time that homes, practically, hardly have time to properly analyse or comment on it. I must say that, regardless of what this law has done under the new Rules of Procedure, that we have made many precedents on this document, so at the same time we have considered the document in the first and second readings and this error or deviation from the work of the Rules of Procedure also happened in the House of Representatives, here now and in the House of Peoples. It would not be a problem if this important document, the moment the Parliamentary Assembly adopts it, became its document and so much more important is our decision. But to forget everything, given that his adoption date is supposed to be 31.03, that just because the procedure went so late, he took away the right and the other home to do his job properly and to accept it as his own document. The Finance and Budget Commission, at its meeting today, therefore, after the meeting of the House of Representatives, supported the principles of this law and adopted only that part of the amendment adopted at the same time at the House of Representatives. For what? If we had adopted this document in a different way, this would mean that the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples must form an Ad hoc commission, which means that these commissions should approach the alignment and re-sessions of their homes to adopt this adopted text. Since we don't have time, so we don't have time to talk in detail about this important document of a country, we are now in a position to vote on both its principles and its amendments as the final text. I couldn't have been president of this committee, I couldn't resist, at least through the conclusion, trying to make things happen, about the adoption of Budget 3 every year, at least in a few changes, and you saw that on the third side of the budget, the conclusion that the text of the Bill with the amendments adopted was unanimously accepted, that there were three conclusions that the Finance and Budget Commission proposed to the House of Nations to adopt them. And I believe the House of Nations will support. It is to be in accordance with Article 123. The rules of procedure of the House of Peoples and international standards, the introduction of the Budget, 3 months before the new fiscal year, must be the standard of BiH. The draft budget must be submitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly by 30 September each year, two weeks before 15 October as the deadline. In the event of a three-month non-compliance with the 3-month deadline for delivery to the draft budget parliamentary procedure, the joint college will recommend that homes take adequate measures to the BiH Council of Ministers. That's the first conclusion. Second, the House of Nations requires ministers and civil servants and expects them to provide full, useful, timely information to the members of the Finance and Budget Committee of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and asks that whenever invited, they attend the meetings of the Commission and the meetings of the House of Peoples. And three, the College of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will act in amendment to the Budget Proposal for next year by reducing or eliminating financial resources in certain paragraphs of ministers and ministries that have not co-operated with delegates and commissions. I think this is the only way to force the Council of Ministers to adopt the budget and propose to the Parliamentary Assembly in the legal procedure and to deal with this country's largest legislative body with greater respect. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. We have Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury, Mr. Kasumović, is that right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u172	Honorable president, distinguished MPs, I'm only obliged to explain one thing. So the law regulates how to bring the budget. So by October 1st, the Ministry of Finance must deliver the draft to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers must deliver the BiH presidency by 15 October, and the BiH presidency needs a draft budget to parliamentary parliaments by 1 November. This year, you know there was a delay in the implementation of the election, so we came to a phase, the former Council of Ministers, so they were waiting for implementation, they didn't leave it in the process. We haven't been appointed new, and that's why this thing came to her. So, on the other hand, I ask that we all respect you for the blockade, so that it doesn't happen, that you do the same thing as the House of Representatives. I, on behalf of the Minister who is absent for the sake of the disease in 4 families and on my behalf, promised the Presidency where we explained it, and on your committees, that in the coming period, any next budget will be delivered in time, so that both commissions and all MPs could deliver amendments and everything else. One more time, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Kasumović. Who's next to the word? So now we've heard, I apologize, please, Dr Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u174	Discussion on the Law
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u175	About principles, please. We are discussing the principles, although, therefore, the chairpersons of the Budget Commission, therefore, who also took part in the second reading stage and the amendments were discussed but I think it was necessary. And if I can, just this one, notice, therefore, what Mr Kasumović said, these conclusions proposed by President Majkić, therefore, they are consistent with this and the Rules of Procedure and the business provisions and provisions that make us to have a budget for next year before the calendar year expire. So, we're still on a plea, so if there's no more, if no one's answering, I apologize, we'll, please. We're talking about principles. Here you go, Mr. Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u176	Thank you very much. I welcome Mr. President and your esteemed colleagues, my friends, I just wanted to say that in the adoption of the Budget for the next year, these conclusions that we have heard here, that the Committee has made and the Honorable President has informed us of the conclusions that have been made on this committee, consisting of these three, these three points, I think it would be extremely good that today, when we make a decision on the Budget, these three points cannot be in the integral part of the decision on the Budget, but to be one, as I would say, given the fact that they are being made. It is made known because both, and we have heard it refers to it, we invite people who work in organs and bodies to perform in due time and what is their task. And therefore, these three points cannot be an integral part of our decision to make the budget for next year, that is, this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić, please. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u178	This is not the first time homes have come to a conclusion on the adoption of a particular report, while at the same time in the form of proposals, suggestions, and several conclusions. Why is it important that these conclusions are here? If they separate themselves from this material and do not form an integral part of it, they will be forgotten. Someone will sometimes bury a commission report or a home report that analyzes our position on the budget of 2007. If only partial conclusions are separate, it's better we don't. We don't need it at all. You know very well, Mr. Jović, from the part of the mandate that you were in the House of Representatives, how many conclusions any of them have never been fulfilled, no one has taken care of them at all. This power can only be held in the composition of a document called the Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u179	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. So, I think it is quite understandable that we will forward every conclusion with this budget to the Proposer of the Budget, so to the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers. I mean, there's no dispute. Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u180	Well, I fully support what Mrs. Majkić said, especially in the section relating to the budget procedure. The fact is, this year there were objective reasons why this time was late. But it is also a fact that this home has been brought into a virtually impossible situation. Today, when we came, we didn't even know whether we were going to have or not to have a session and that we're practically today, it's up to us now whether it's budget or not, and there's no time, because if it isn't, it's practically Budget and it's standing, it's not working. So our options today are to do something, minimal. And Budget is a serious document that implies that it is serious and that it is spoken of in a House that presupposes it to be serious. That's why I won't go into all the details. And I think that by the consent reached at the House of Representatives, we are put in a position to practically have no options. The change that happened in relation to the original proposal, relative to the original proposal, I'm going to open now that we've put this all together, I want to say it now, is reflected in the fact that 10 million funds have been allocated for the intervention of the difficult economic and social situation in the Municipality of Srebrenica. It's a formulation of the 6 new items that were given. I mean, and I think there's another number of municipalities in BiH that are in a difficult situation. I have no intention of making an amendment, because giving amendments would practically, and especially if he were voted, put Budget in a position to go back to the meeting of homes, agreeing and therefore I have no intention of doing so, even though we are in a regular procedure, I would suggest the amendment. If we had time, I would suggest an amendment and instead of an amendment I would suggest one conclusion. And this is to task the Council of Ministers to make a reservation out of the 9992 budget item, and to help and address the difficult economic, social situation in the municipalities of Grahovo, Glamoc and Drvar singled out 2 million KM. Why do I suggest that conclusion? The municipalities of Drvar, Grahovo and Glamoch have a total budget of about a million marks, all three together. At the same time, these municipalities have no special separations from the Budget Federation unlike Srebrenica, where the RS government has singled out 15 million, making 25 million marks with these 10. So it's very important financial resources and I have nothing against them. But I object not to consider, if we are the BiH Parliament, and the difficult economic social situation in the municipalities of Grahovo, Glamoc and Drvar. I was almost in Grahovo, and I have to tell you that there are no street lamps in Grahovo, no one burns at night because the municipality doesn't have the means to pay for it. I have to tell you, there are less than 80 people who are under 30. And I have to tell you that the number of employees per capita is far less than it is in Srebrenica. And the total amount of resources that people have there is far less. And I repeat, just because of the situation in which, we would now practically bring all BiH institutions into an impossible situation, I am not proposing an amendment, but I am proposing a conclusion that I have said and that I will deliver to the chairman in writing. I expect that, at least this conclusion, he gets support, because neither canton nor canton is in any great financial situation, and neither is the Federation government, nor has it foreseen anything for those municipalities. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanovich. Who's next to the word? I think Rudo was a little faster than you, but, look, if he leaves, you make a deal, I apologize. Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u182	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, since it is a general debate, I would also like to say that I would like to express my first dissatisfaction with the fact that the amendments that I have submitted to this budget have not been accepted. I believe that the amendments were realistic and were not a great burden on the Commission's work and that there was room and way to provide financial resources for the realisation of some of the amendments that have been mentioned and which have been submitted. 7 I also believe that this report should have said the reason why some of the amendments were not accepted. My dissatisfaction is also due to Amendment I.. I smatrati that, if certain funds have already been provided to resuscitate certain municipalities, then things should have been seen wider. I accept what the esteemed colleague Mladen Ivanić said. I find the situation in Herzegovina disastrous. And that it was necessary to take care of the situation in some of the municipalities that are in an extremely difficult situation. I would also like to make one general remark, and that general remark concerns the funds on page 4, point 8 — the costs of the lease. In fact, 16 million rent marks are scheduled to be made from Budget this year. 14 million last year. I heard from some colleagues who used to be, that it was 15 million and so on. So much money to rent, along with many empty spaces in some and military facilities and others, which could be adapted and given for the purposes of BiH institutions, I really find it unacceptable both with these funds and their reservation and spending in this way, I believe that it should stop in future budgets. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mr. Rudo Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u184	Thank you very much. I, as well as Mr Ivanić, have no intention of proposing amendments to the awareness that in this situation if they were accepted, it brings the budget into an unfavourable position and we extend the deadline, the one that we have kind of broken through. But here I am, therefore, as an envoy, trying to include myself in this debate that was in the past days and through committees, and here I was also present today at the House of Representatives session when the amendments proposed by the House of Representatives were voted and explained how the Budget was actually passed. So, I understand and justify the amendment for the intervention of certain municipalities, here in particular Srebrenica, and in every thought, therefore, such environments deserve such interventions. I also agree with the thought that there are more environments and municipalities in BiH that deserve attention, so the State Budget and the attention of the BiH Parliament. But what I've come to, so it's not an amendment, but it's going to be in the form of a conclusion, it's actually a wish that we, in some way, commit the proposings of a future rebalancing, that even from this level, try to stimulate the return and survival of those people who will return. So, I would not take much further, therefore, of the time, suggest a conclusion on all this, that the official rebalancing proposal be entrusted, therefore, to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, that, in the making of the rebalancing, it is calculated that, in the return item of the refugees and displaced persons, appropriate support is provided, here with the aim, therefore, that, in this way, this home, therefore, provides support or stimulates the return. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u185	What's appropriate is you can contaminate that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u186	Please, I have not, therefore, been clearly informed of the proposal, but I think that 24 million per the Commission's proposal to the House of Representatives, and here I am, therefore, proposing that this proposal be respected in the making of rebalancing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u187	24 million KM.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u188	Yeah,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u190	Only for IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u191	(distant from the microphone nothing can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u192	That's right. Thank you very much. Including... and of the 10 in this variant, so if this is 10 for the intervention of Srebrenica, I absolutely don't mind, then that 14 million would be intended in the rebalancing process to stimulate the return to municipalities where people want to go back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u194	Apparently, some of my colleagues didn't get what I said at the start. I, as a delegate, had made amendments that I would have invested if no agreement had been reached in the meantime, so that Budget would be adopted as soon as possible, so that it would give up as much of the amendment as possible to have the budget today. Mr. Šaraba has proposed amendments literally to Mr. Novaković's amendment, which were rejected at the House of Representatives in general. Amendments 9 rejected were not the basis for the Commission's work on finance and budget today at the House of Peoples. So we couldn't discuss what didn't go through the procedure. So, I said in the report, it's also with you, with those of you who got it, there are only amendments that have passed at the House of Representatives. So, none of them, I didn't even want to let them go because I didn't want to put myself in a position to risk Budget being adopted today. That's one thing. Another thing, please conclude, do not impose financial obligations. It can't. We could do that with amendments, and certainly not a conclusion because you're changing budgets. But I don't want to talk about it, and I'm asking someone from the Council of Ministers to say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u195	Thank you very much. I was just about to give one such, one suggestion. But here, we have this Fahman from the Ministry of Finance. I ask Mr. Kasumović to return your call.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u196	Dear MPs, I'll try to help you now. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives did the following. So, they adopted the Budget for all the things we talked about, the way it is. And then, as I understand it, they were the same conclusions as yours, but they delayed them for the next session to get a little too far. It's about the next one. Mr. Ivanic, who wants the amendment yes, it was similar there and this, means but now it's going to be a conclusion. I suggest we do the same thing as, if we adopt a budget like this, it's objective that last year, so in 2006, it's going to be left with a surplus that we're going to analyze somewhere, both at home somewhere in the 6th month, that's the law, it's going to be a long time, but it's the law. Then there will be those funds, and as I've seen, most clubs are looking for those funds to go to the Return Fund, and from where all these municipalities are numbered, there's exactly how I realized it. It would be good for you to adopt the Budget like this, and then consult and make these conclusions the same and be realized at the 6th month because in our opinion, somewhere around 30 million will remain the surplus of last year. And that would be the easiest solution for me, and for you. It means we adopt Budget, and these are all to solve through those conclusions. There were conclusions and related to, the honourable representative noticed. So that's where they were looking for 1600,000, and next year it's 22,000,000 leases, etc. So they're asking the Council of Ministers to make a program to avoid these leases, because they don't know what the state has anymore, and we're paying rent, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u197	Thank you, Mr. Kasumović. So here's another sweet candy. We swallowed it. We know we've been thinking and we've heard this, and we've heard what the amendment is, which is the conclusion, which is the conclusion from which they practically come from obligations and what is the conclusion that some of the behaviors of those who propose the Budget to this Parliament. Mr. Zrna, come in. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome you all. In fact, my colleague in finance took a good part of what I was going to say here, although it is absolutely acceptable all what my colleagues said, especially Ivanić and my colleague Vidović, because I am coming, Mladen, from this county, it is my county and perhaps just another addition to what you said. The area may be the most specific in all of BiH by the fact that it is a space both exiled and exiled and returned. So that's one collapse where it all went to bed, a little bit more alive. And that's why I absolutely support this initiative, and I'm just afraid that we wouldn't open the Pandora's box today and start competing in what we do and how. And we can do that because it looks like we're missing information. Unfortunately, we don't have enough information. I've been here four years but, personally, I see I'm missing information. And that's why I suggest we all ask for complete information, and the Ministry is sitting here. This is such a problem that deserves, not this post-festum attention, but the attention of an extraordinary session, and the initiative gives it the conclusions of that home and the conclusions of this home, where we will discuss this problem, the problem of the return population. And I think that's the answer. If we've already become aware, I think we should have become aware of how much attention we need to pay to this population in this country, then, one extraordinary session about this problem, I don't think it would be too much for anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Zrna. Is there more? So, I'd like to, please, we're not lost, we've agreed in the College, so let's let the debate go even though we're fat in the debate, so in the second reading. I would now ask that we respect things procedurally, since we were flexible to come, to serve the story now procedurally, to plead out these things so far that we've heard about. So I get the impression that they are, therefore, not the controversial principles on which this budget is made up. I ask you, therefore, that is what we are, such a debate, so we have ended, we conclude the debate on the subject of principle and necessity on which this Law is based. So, I'm asking to make a statement on the draft budget bill in the first reading. We're voting in cardboard, and there are no electronic conditions for that kind of thing yet. Who's in? I find that with 14 votes, therefore, we unanimously accepted the budget in the first reading. I suggest we do both the debate and the second reading, so we vote again only on the procedure. I beg your pardon, we have already opened this debate, but let's say it in public. 11 Who is it for us to have a discussion in another reading? So, everyone's in, and we've decided unanimously. Please, in the second reading, there is a debate on amendments, therefore, and it is voted on by the Budget. We didn't have an amendment. So, you heard from the Report of the President of the Committee, we accepted it from the Committee on Budgets and Finance, so we accepted the text that came in identical form from the House of Representatives. I'm asking you now, so I'm opening a discussion on the Budget in the second reading, if you think there's anything else you have to say, if you don't, it seems to me we've exhausted it too, we might be able to plead, I apologize, Mladen wants to say something. So we continue to discuss the Budget in the second reading. Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u200	I have made it very clear which items I propose, which is an item that can be used for these purposes if you will. He doesn't get into any other items, he doesn't cause anyone else any trouble. The subset, the current reservation, has the base of the current reserve. And current reserves are the space that the Council of Ministers, if they will, can use. If it's some particular problem of another species, it's something special. Otherwise, in the discussions before, in the consultations we had, I suggested that the funds for the return be increased to everyone. It was an insistence in the House of Representatives to make it exclusive, only Srebrenica. In that context, I believe that it should, and I was in favour, that these funds increase much more than 10 million. In the context of what you're talking about. And since this has been insisted on it, just that, and this has been left behind, so I propose a conclusion, and I'm deliberately not looking for a general view of all the municipalities, but I deliberately insisted that it be for Glamoch, Grahovo and Drava. Let me explain, so it doesn't make any sense to anyone. So my conclusion cannot be interpreted: give the funds to return to the refugees, so all of them. No, give it from the current reserve for these three municipalities. To be clear, precise, not to be, there is no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. We totally understood that, I have one specific, so one proposal that seems to me can satisfy everything. So I propose that we end the debate on the Budget and accept the Budget in the second reading in the way it is accepted in the House of Representatives. To accept, therefore, the conclusions of the Budget Committee that do not create new material obligations, therefore, to vote on the Report of the Commission, to respect the dignity of, therefore, the commissions of our own to which we give full confidence in their work. So, from these conclusions followed by the report, Ms. Majkić, this one does not source any material obligations, and then we continue the discussion of the conclusions. 12 So I have a concrete proposal, therefore, to decide the Budget and Conclusions and the Report of the Commission from the conclusions which we have now heard, which it has. So, take, wait, let me run the session. I am now, I'm putting into debate, uh, the proposal I made. Here, I'm having a debate with the proposal I made. Mrs. Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u202	Here's how I understand this report from the Commission, the amendments that have been adopted, have become an integral text of the law, and we today need to make a statement on the Budget Law proposal. The conclusions proposed subsequently cannot be an integral part of the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u203	Not the Law, but the Reports, I can stand in the Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u204	Of course in the report yes, but we about the law must
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u205	We're just thinking it all the same. It's just possible that I said it differently. That's OK. So, please, then we got along. So, I ask you, therefore, I put in the second reading of the Report, the competent commission adopted the Budget in the proposed text which was delivered by the House of Representatives, the amendment was not, I am putting on the statement of the draft Budget Law. Who's in favor of such a proposal? Who's against it?1 against it. Are there any abstentions? And one abstention. I find that 12 for, one abstention and one against. We practically adopted the budget. Let's go to conclusions now, so the conclusions, so we have, I'm sorry. Professor Neimarlija, please. No Niko will stay to get word, you just have to warn me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u206	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, I have a need to support the suggestion of a respected colleague of Zrn and, for my part, to add a reason, because the proposal by my colleagues Ivanić is such that I cannot be against the content of the proposal. And I understand his 13 justifications, but formally I can't be in. Because this proposal establishes one situation which has also been left in the House of Representatives to consider all other similar conclusions, which was also a consequence which would be much more appropriate for us here, that these conclusions which we, which we, along with the conclusions of fellow Ivanić, were left for the next session or that others, let's say, prepare ourselves to intervene with their conclusions. I fully understand the reasons, I support the content of the proposal, but I cannot be, technically, because there have been such proposals, and I am asking whether only these three municipalities, uh, in such a situation, and therefore I think it would be appropriate that, in fact, I am in favour of this proposal from Zrne colleagues, that once we have, in fact, passed the law, any corrections, repairs, additions to the Law that Ivanić is going to enter, of course, and this proposal is being prepared, even if we have them for the first or any of the next sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u207	For the first next session, there's no reason to wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u208	It's perfectly appropriate to react like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u209	That's one of the thinking, so, not to be sure, we heard, so we had suggestions here, a conclusion, we can put them on a statement, so we'll see their fate, and we have a proposal, we've heard that that's how the House of Representatives did it. That all the conclusions that came to the table after the adoption of the Budget, so the stenogram, it's all recorded, can be downloaded to specify them and that we have at the next session to open the debate, so, at a special point of the agenda. Here you go, Dr. Ivanic. To hear the opinions and professional institutions, ministries, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u210	This conclusion does not change the content of the Budget, it does not change at all, it is the conclusion that the Council of Ministers is asked to use it from the current reserve, and it can use it, single out that amount of funds. I agree with Professor Neimarlija when he said why those three municipalities, but I think that Pandora's box is open with a proposal for Srebrenica. No, don't get me wrong now at all, I supported the vote just now. I can't understand why you won't support my suggestions now. I repeat, these three municipalities have a budget smaller than Srebrenica, all three together. There's no street lighting in these municipalities, one thing for sure. The amount of funds at their disposal is smaller and if we wanted to be fair then we had to have the same principle for everyone, so we made it possible for everyone to have access. I supported this here, voting for this 14 budget, what happened in the House of Representatives, with my vote. I ask you only to conclude that you support my conclusions. If that's too much, then I don't think it's a problem in me, but that the problem is too big, too big, too big a policy role in our whole decision-making. Nothing more. So, I'd ask the chairman to put the motion on a plea, if he doesn't get most of it, he doesn't get most of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u211	Thank you very much. So, I have to make a point, just a little bit, please, let me concentrate on the session. So we're going to put all the conclusions in the same position. There is no reason to vote on Mr Ivanić's conclusion, and it does not vote on the conclusion proposed by Mr Vidović or Mr Zrna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u212	Uh, so, I know, these municipalities are in the neighborhood to me, I know that people who work in Graho's Municipality can't even share a salary, but the same thing I have in Buzin, same place in Buzin, same thing, and I'm not going to push that problem, like I'm the only one really for it, let's put it all on the table, wherever we can help, that those money we're already talking about, here's 30 million, I think it's 39, it doesn't matter, but that, we do it really where we need to go. Because now it's going to turn out, so I don't, but I do know what it's like for these people, so I know that they don't even share a salary contribution. They don't. But let's have more of these examples so we can put it together in some kind of basket and with a lot of respect, I'm really, I don't know what to say, that's what. But then, if I don't say, "let's put in a Buž," then I'm someone who's, right, I don't know, but here I'm praying for it to be on one of the next ones, which I know how, not to be an anti-cicipating distribution, but to know that we can agree on what to who, somewhere else, nothing else, uh, for that reason I'm sorry I won't vote for that conclusion. But it's just for that, not what I wouldn't want. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u213	Thank you very much. The word he asked for, I apologize to Mr Kasumović, you will receive a course, Agent Jović. Here you go. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What we were supposed to do today at this point in the agenda, we did. We have just come up with a professional and competent session, which is, by our vote, adopted the agenda item that we had on the agenda. The budget was adopted. We can stay here until tomorrow as dear, nice friends and various topics here to talk and point out. Surely one thing, I am glad to have a witness, it is Mr. Tihić, we have at least twice as members of the 15 presidency had the adoption of the budget, where it is suggested that from this level of government there will be no return marks. We also had one, I will remind him, myself and you that we had five priorities for the next time that we received from people of friends from the world in 5 priorities that BiH's return items should do. So the two of us, indeed, have very much advocated that it must be one of the first of these five, so one of the first or the other I don't know what would be more important, the right of a man to return home and that this house that his unfortunate war took to preserve that property and be his. So here today listening to these needs gives me the right, because I haven't discussed the point so now a few words say, here, just behind one bench in the last assembly of the House of Representatives on every home I'm late so they accused me of not listening to the anthem of my country. And I was deliberately late. You know why? As my municipality leaves only 20km away from Sarajevo, it has the worst road in BiH, and it is not just one municipality but four. With 65,000 inhabitants, the Turkish kaldrma by which the asphalt was spilled. It was the first, first road and first region, the first road in BiH and the region to receive asphalt in '53. A year. It hasn't been touched since then. And that's 20km from Sarajevo. One more thing, in the community I live in, '63. The last meter of the sidewalk was placed in the centre of the municipality. With 24 thousand inhabitants, '63. and 17 lighting bodies welcomed war. That's what happened back then. I do, forgive me, will not sit here and keep silent to repeat such a time, that it may again remain me and the people to whom I belong on such grounds. I don't know if we live in this country, do you realize that for 40 kilometers you can walk through Posavino that there are no bricks, no tile, no house. I'm listening to some other nature's moanings here. It's hard for all of us, the budget has been adopted, we sit down and we agree on the priorities and difficulties in which this country and the people in which it is... I must tell you and be honest, RS can help with its budget, and it will and will help both Drava and Glamoč and Grahove as much as it can. Sarajevo County, 3 million just last year for the return of Bošnjak to eastern Bosnia. And who am I going to ask? Who's going to help me? I'm asking you nicely, don't let us get into that kind of trouble and bring things up here. I'm from Doboj as soon as I get out of town, I get to Sava, there's no Croatian house. I come to Plehan as a member, i.e. then the chairman of the presidency, RS police, there are people taking down the transformer and taking it from the body of Elektroprivreda RS, three days earlier some international organisation set it up. That priest they're throwing rocks at, and I'm coming to visit that moment. Let's talk about each other on the basis of mutual trust and peering into each other's eyes, telling the truth. Well 300 thousand Hrvat that's 40% missing in this country. And here's no one to say a word to make it a good thing if we'd given the review and reached the conclusion. 24 million of the Ministry of Return and Exorcised has proposed in the Budget, there is no such item she has deleted. Who had the power to do that? I'd have something to talk about. 16 I don't have time. And I could point out and ask for that guilty man and his responsibility. But we're in a situation of 12 and 10, not five to twelve, but 12 and 10. We adopted the Budget, these topics really deserve to be discussed in one more, indeed, quality way. That we have sub-strategic indicators, so to say what is in which municipality so far done and done. And let's see what it is that we can overcome common forces, problems in different environments. Well, I must say, the Municipality of Ravna has 201 inhabitants, you know, when the last house was fixed, for the holy one never. Marka didn't come to that municipality. I came there at least five times as a member of the presidency and I could just sit in the corner and cry with that people. And neither do I. I don't know how to pick others. But I don't want to fall under that, that part. For me in this country there are exiles without nationality. And I won't, and I won't think about it like that. But I will fight for the 24 million he has proposed, which will enter the new 10 that they have given, rightly, and Srebrenica. It means that we are, to fight as a House to honor what the Ministry has proposed, because I really don't know what the role and function of that man's door is going to be, the Ministry of Return of Exorcised and, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, and there't have any money. What's his role here? It's getting smaller and smaller. Are we responsible? We didn't. And that's why I suggest we don't conclude anything today. Here's to getting ready for a public debate, more concise, more correct, and that the debate really comes out of the semi-precious things that we're going to realize. And I'm afraid we'll fall under someone else I don't like to listen to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. We'll give priority to the MPs. Mr. Vidović. We'll hear from you in the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u216	Here I am, here I am, invited, therefore, to Mr. Jović's discussion, and here are some other envoys here, and with a goal, here, yes, here we are today with some messages but that our steps may not be forgotten. The budget, here's this vote, was adopted, and I'm here specifically, since I was the promoter of this conclusion, I would support this conclusion at one of the next studio sessions more open and with more input information that we didn't have at this session today, we open this question. And that, then, here's the conclusion, similar to how the House of Representatives did, in this regard, on the bill we make. So I'm not giving up, therefore, on my proposal for a conclusion, but here I would like to join this conclusion that this statement of conclusions is being extended for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u217	Thank you very much. We heard this proposal. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u218	I'd just like to ask myself, in fact, where are we? I don't know where we are right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u219	We have adopted the Budget and we are discussing the conclusions, and we will put it to the Commission's statement and conclusions. We haven't forgotten that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u220	Yeah, yeah, sure, but what I'm saying is, if we're in a position right now that each of us is proposing some conclusions for some opportunities, now I'm asking as a man first for what opportunities? The story of Budget is a story that makes sense until Budget adopts itself. When adopted, let us see which mechanisms are available to us to change the situation. Someone says from the budget reserve. It says exactly how the budget reserve is spent.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u221	Or rebalance the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u222	Let me ask you a question. In this country, unfortunately, there is no institution for budget rebalancing. It's here, gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance gentlemen never wanted to say that in any home. I have long struggled to change, that, that the budget reserve is being spent to balance the volume of expenditure structure of the budget users behind the planned frameworks. Do you know that we are the only country where Parliament does not use what the funds are spent on? So you will never have a chance to talk about how to change things, because it is not in Parliament's jurisdiction. We are the only country in which, in whose jurisdiction in parallel it is not, but the Council of Ministers itself does various restructurings, often in a vague way. So, I'm wondering now, knowing everything that's been going on with Budget, if we all had good suggestions, and I wanted to show you our country what it looks like in a section called Mines and in Budget that we are, look at what this country looks like, these red ones are mines and I couldn't add half of the funds missing from this Mine Action Center to free us from mines. That we've got 5,000 people dead here. I couldn't because they said don't touch the budget. You'll jeopardize the adoption of the budget. There are a lot of things we could talk about, but I'm asking with what effect. The effect is if we can throw it into a place where things decide. Parliament is obviously not the place where things are decided. Let the other decide for us. 18 And my fellow Members, we remain a great task, and that is to first ensure that Parliament has the opportunity to control what is happening within the executive authority. That's the first thing. All your wishes, however justified they are, and the story of the people coming back, it's just a political story because you don't have the basis to do it. We must first change the laws on which it rests that Parliament does not control the budget. Just so you know. So you can tell everything, you can tell everything, I don't know what good ideas you have if you know that good ideas are as good as they are, and none of these, however good they were, are real while this Budget Act is real.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u223	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. So we understand what you're saying. However, we have no right here to disrespect or even ignore anyone's proposal. So he's, each one is legitimate and our obligation, therefore, is to be so patient, to listen to everything. So it's, it's, uh, one of ours and a business, basically, commitment. Mr. Tihić asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u224	Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that after the adoption of this Budget Act, we should concentrate on the adoption of these conclusions which our, our Finance and Budget Commission has proposed and that we conclude the debate on this, on this point of the agenda. Perhaps one additional point that Mr. Zrno spoke about and another, that, in line with the conclusions of the House of Representatives, we also open a debate on some issues concerning Budget, some additional items, etc. I'm not against, normally nothing that both Grahovo and Drvar and Dervent and you don't know many of these other return points get certain funds to return. And here's the Deputy Finance Minister saying there are some possibilities, there's going to be some extra income and we need to discuss it. I don't think it would even be in line with the law that we now oblige the Council of Ministers to set aside from the budget reserve for this municipality or that municipality or any other item I don't even know how to spend that budget reserve. There's got to be a law on a budget reserve. I don't believe it can be in the form of conclusions, but if it can be in the form of conclusions then there would be bids now, you know. There would be a bidding which is as justified as it is, whether it takes 2 million, 1 million, or which municipality can come to order, etc. Srebrenica is the exception and probably the House of Representatives and everyone else who voted for it, and here we voted for it, uh, we found a reason and why that exception was made. But all of this, I think we should consider it at a special session in a special, uh, package. I therefore propose that we adopt these three conclusions plus the conclusion adopted by the House of Representatives, when it comes to a variety of these proposals on spending. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. Is there anyone else who wants a word? Mr. Kasumović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u226	I'm really sorry, distinguished MPs today is the first time I've gone out because I've never been to parliaments, so I apologize, but here's the fourth time. I just wanted to help you out a little bit. So you can't change the budget with the conclusions. Just so you're clear. So, as regards this amendment or Mr Ivanić's conclusion that the team and the team from the budget reserve, the law said: "The budžetski reserve is in the power of the Council of Ministers and it can be spent at the request of the budget user, not your conclusion." So, what I'm saying is, you're gonna have to go back to the return fund and make some projects there, and that's how you spend that budget reserve, and that's certainly how you do it under the law. The only solution is to do this, is that rebalancing that you can look for somewhere in the sixth month when you adopt, so the final account of these institutions for the past year. And finally, I hope not, I really thank you, and if the formal legal proposal of the Budget Presidency, I thank you because you, however, adopted the Budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u227	Thank you very much. In front of us is the proposer, House of Representatives, not the Presidency is not the Council of Ministers. Thank you for your help. So here we have, uh, now one statement that the conclusions that they draw are, therefore, certain material resources or reflect that they are infertile conclusions. So, Dr Ivanić wants a word. Let's get rid of it if we're all doing the same job.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u228	Well, I've been to the Council of Ministers, I know how to use the budget reserve, and I know what the Council of Ministers, for which all uses were used by the budget reserve. The budget reserve can therefore be used. I didn't even say that dom, in conclusion, was in charge of the Council of Ministers that from the budget reserve, I didn't say. Home made a decision to get out of the budget reserve because I know that. So mine is fully in line with Article 15 that regulates, only if it politically does not. And the bidding began, with the amendment that entered, in which it was not intended to have no bid, but to have all the municipalities be, and of course, mine has always been a suggestion that 20 Srebrenica be the priority of all priorities. And I didn't start that bidding, but someone else started it. To be honest, especially those who are criticising me today, counterpart Tihić and colleagues from the SDA and Party for BiH. And I have to tell you that I honestly think there's something that's come up in there and that we're going to have problems now, all of us as MPs. We'll all have problems. All the municipalities will now start looking for it. I understand that Srebrenica is specific. But when you look at the explanation of the item, the difficult economic and social situation in Srebrenica. I'm telling you it's harder in some other municipalities, maybe even in the one you come from compared to this. Why? 15 million RS government, there is a 4.5 million-mark UNDP project for Srebrenica, the Srebrenica budget itself is bigger than any other, 10 million here and my proposal for a conclusion just points to that and that's why I asked it to be made. To show, and this debate has already shown it in some way, that we have made a certain step there. She is a sensitive Srebrenica, and now she turns out, because she's sensitive, no one else can say anything. So my conclusion is perfectly consistent. He's not stepping down, I didn't say making a decision to the House of Peoples, we can't, but we're in charge of the Council of Ministers. If that's hard too, here I suggest an even lighter version, the Council of Ministers is required to consider the possibility, if that's not correct, then I don't know what else is correct. Well, only if it doesn't. Well, then, that's another topic. I, and if I hadn't answered again, I would still like to have my conclusion voted. So, I don't agree to the variant to delay some statement and then to do it all again. Just to vote yes, against and over.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-04-0.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. So we can come up with a real solution, just a little patience. So I suggest this order of things. So, let us now accept, if we will respect our commission, and we should do so, therefore, the conclusions that do not bind anyone except to inform the Presidency and the Council of Ministers of certain new actions, that we are not delayed in the budget. These are the conclusions proposed by Mrs Majkić, therefore, under 1, 2 and 3 in the Commission report. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in charge of these conclusions? Here, please count. Who's against it? Against one, abstentioned no one. So of us 14, 13 is for, 1 is against. I find that we have accepted the conclusions proposed by the Committee on Budgets and Finance. The rest are now the conclusions proposed by Dr Ivanić, proposed by Mr. Šaraba, the predefined amendments in the form of a conclusion, proposed by Mr. Rudo Vidović, proposed by Mr. Zrno, proposed by Mr. Jović, and we have a proposal from Mr. Tihić. 21 Therefore, I have one middle solution, and the Mladen will not agree, but I would like to come to a more concrete one, therefore, more just, one true approach, where we will not say that we have reached an empty conclusion. So the proposal would be reduced to defining until the next session, so all the proposals we heard today, let them be removed from the stenogram to wait simultaneously for the conclusions that have been adopted in the House of Representatives. To schedule the debate here then and call Dr Nikola Špirić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Finance, Mr Vrankić, so we will agree on the College, therefore, which would be more relevant or the institutions or persons who would be welcome in our debate on all these issues. So, then, we would come to the real, therefore, possible and enforceable conclusions of this House. I'm putting this proposal on the record. Who's up for a proposal like this? I'm saying yes. How much is that for? Who's against it? 1 versus and 13 for. So for today, then, with this proposal that I have made, we have practically concluded the debate and the conclusions and we have reached this conclusion that I have proposed to you. We've exhausted both the agenda and I'm concluding today's 4th session of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 5:15 p.m.
