i-77e323bcc0311778-2	Madam President, I would like As the first speaker on the matter, I will give a brief summary of the report, including the strengthened link between the Riksdag and the Swedish National Audit Office. The Parliamentary Council of the Swedish National Audit Office is given an extended responsibility and changes its name to Parliament's Council for the Swedish National Audit Office. The Council will be composed of the members and alternates of the Constitutional Committee and the Finance Committee nominated by those committees. The Council will be Parliament's tool for consultation and transparency in the Swedish National Audit Office but will not have the power to make decisions regarding the Swedish National Audit Office. Decisions of this nature shall be prepared by the Constitutional Committee and the Finance Committee in ordinary parliamentary order. The division of responsibilities between the Constitutional Committee and the Finance Committee proposed in the presentation is the most appropriate and is consistent with the principle of the Special Committee by keeping the legislation on the National Audit Office and the Authority's budget together. Certain rules on the appointment of posts in office are introduced. However, the final form of the agency will be decided only after the parliamentary committee to decide on its governance has submitted its final report to the Riksdag. The Parliament is almost entirely united in this report, but I would like to point out that, as the form of government today stands, it would have been possible for Parliament to be given the opportunity to decide on a flexible term of office in the election of the respective national auditor and that the terms of office could then vary, for example between five and nine years. Such a regime would allow the Riksdag to choose which term of office is best suited in each individual case according to what appears to be most appropriate, taking into account the needs and wishes of the parties concerned and the succession order of the national auditors. In our view, this could also have the positive effect of increasing the selection of persons who can be elected, as the time for holding office can be adjusted. With the current report being voted through, the word a social benefit is removed from the description of the main focus of the efficiency audit that the Swedish National Audit Office is to carry out. This is obviously a good thing, since the delicate task of deciding whether a company's action is to be considered useful to society or not should be reserved to the people and its elected representatives. In order to make such an assessment adequately, it makes it much easier if a factual and detailed description is available of the impact of business measures on society. The intentional and unintended societal effects of an action can, as emerged in the 2017 national audit investigation, be a much broader concept than merely measuring whether the stated objective of an action has been met or not. A careful account of, not least, the unintended effects, whether economic or otherwise, may be of particular interest in political considerations. It is my conviction and the conviction of the Swedish Democrats that this is the very essence of the Swedish National Audit Office. We would therefore have liked to have seen the concept of having had an explicit part in the task of the efficiency audit, and I therefore call for the reservation to be accepted.
i-QtEn3JG3tdUn1gwp4fKFEy	Madam President, I would like First of all, I support the committee's proposal in the KU14 and reject the reservation. The Swedish National Audit Office is part of the parliament's control power, and it will conduct an independent review of state activities. Madam President, I would like Let me go back to summer 2016. Then we members of the Constitutional Committee were called to Parliament. Information had come to light that we found damaged confidence in the National Auditors and the National Auditors. Much can be said, but I sum up by saying that the committee later in the autumn took the initiative for a review of the National Audit Office, and the Riksdag Board decided on a parliamentary composite inquiry. It turned out that there was a need for clearer government control by the Swedish National Audit Office than had previously existed. One aspect of this is the proposal that what is today the Parliamentary Council of the Swedish National Audit Office should be given increased responsibility. This is indicated by changing the name to Parliament's council for the Swedish National Audit Office. The Council shall be composed of members and alternates recruited from the Constitutional and Finance Committees and shall receive, in particular, the support of officials, as appropriate from the Constitutional Committee. The Council should be the Parliament's tool for consultation and transparency in the Swedish National Audit Office, with a firm procedure whereby the members of the Council report regularly to their respective committees, i.e. the KU and the FIU. We also propose that the Constitutional Committee should be responsible for the Swedish National Audit Office as an authority while the Finance Committee should be responsible for ensuring the relevance, quality and productivity of the Swedish National Audit Office's operations. According to our proposal, the responsibility for the preparation of the Agency's appropriations and annual accounts, as well as the audit of the Agency, is to be placed on the Constitutional Committee. We believe that this division of responsibilities is the most appropriate and appropriate, while at the same time being consistent with the principle of specialist committees. Furthermore, we propose that the Constitutional Committee, on its own initiative or at the request of one of the national auditors, consult a national auditor on matters of a more organisational nature. Madam President, I would like In 2016, there was a risk that the Swedish National Audit Office would have been completely unsupervised until new auditors had been elected and had been appointed. This report proposes an amendment of the law allowing the Constitutional Committee to elect an acting national auditor until an ordinary national auditor has been elected and appointed. The amendment aims both to ensure that the Swedish National Audit Office has a management in the event that, for some reason, all auditors can no longer carry out their duties and to provide for the possibility of temporary appointment of a national auditor if necessary, so that the number of auditors of the State is not lower than is prescribed for any longer period. In addition, as we heard earlier, we propose that the word abstinence should be removed from the description of the main focus of the efficiency audit that the National Audit Office should carry out, as it should be a political responsibility to determine whether or not measures taken are socially beneficial. We do not want the Swedish National Audit Office to have this political list. Finally, we propose that the decision to close an audit, which is not only intended for preparatory actions, should be presented in a way other than in an audit report. A statement of the reasons for the closure of an investigation gives the outside world an opportunity to assess whether the investigation has been closed on factual grounds. It is proposed that the legislative amendments contained in the proposal enter into force on 1 April this year.
i-77e323bcc0311778-20	Madam President, I would like Confidence in democracy and the functions of society require a well-functioning power of control. The role of the Swedish National Audit Office is important in this context. The proposal that Parliament today has to take a position on strengthens the link between the Riksdag and the Swedish National Audit Office. This creates opportunities for the Swedish National Audit Office's work to develop and also to ensure a popular anchoring. It requires professionalism and high quality and that this is combined with transparency and a clear independence. With this, I would like to call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee in the KU14 report to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office works ultimately on the mission of the citizens – the people. Strong commitment from the Riksdag is an important prerequisite for continued good development. The proposal before us today contains a series of measures that focus on how this can be done in everyday life. A firm practice of reporting and a division of responsibilities between the Constitutional Committee and the Finance Committee is highlighted. KU receives responsibility for the Swedish National Audit Office as an authority. Its budget is transferred from Category 2 Social Economics and Finance Management to Category 1 Kingdom government. The annual report and procurement are also handled by KU. The Committee on Finance, for its part, is responsible for ensuring relevance, quality and productivity and for preparing the annual report. The Parliamentary Council of the National Audit Office is replaced, as we have also heard here, by what will be the Parliament's Council for the National Audit Office, which will consist of one member from each party and an equal number of alternates. It is also proposed that this Council should consult the Constitutional Committee and the Finance Committee on matters that concern them. The Swedish Parliament's Council for the Swedish National Audit Office has an important role to play in ensuring popular and therefore democratic support. The proposal also introduces the possibility of electing an acting national auditor in the special situation that arises when a national auditor leaves his post prematurely. This happened in 2016, something that Tuve Skånberg also referred to, and that is one of the reasons for the review that has taken place and is taking place. As far as the efficiency audit, mentioned here, is concerned, there has been a discussion about the word. The Swedish National Audit Office should, of course, be able to account for the impact of political decisions and measures, but it should be stressed that it is ultimately a political responsibility to determine whether the measures are precisely socially beneficial. In this case, the audit has a limit, as we see it. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office in its current form has existed since 2003. Before that, from the introduction of the representation reform in Sweden in the 1860s, it was Parliament's politically appointed state auditors who handled this important part of the joint control power. The Swedish National Audit Office's constitutional independence has to review the state's activities and authorities according to the current conditions and which have been in force since 2003. The key words that are highlighted about openness, independence and professionalism are things that are binding and worthy of emphasis. As mentioned, a parliamentary inquiry is ongoing, involving myself and some others here in the hall, about the management of the Swedish National Audit Office. Until the end of May, work will continue, which will then be the subject of any future decisions here in the Riksdag. For my part, in addition to the basic data on current audits, I would like to highlight development issues and an active and forward-looking approach. In this context, Madam President, the issues surrounding the world are important to emphasise. The Swedish National Audit Office participates in international contexts to strengthen democracy and independent audit work globally. It is also of great importance to be involved in the development and improvement of international standards. Through the membership of Indosai, the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions, the Swedish National Audit Office plays an important role as a driving force in the organization's work. Sweden also plays important roles in the European cooperation body and in the Nordic audit cooperation. The international work is designed to support democratic development in different parts of the world, and the focus is precisely on strengthening the supervisory power of parliaments. Among the current cooperation projects that can be mentioned and which we can also see on the Swedish National Audit Office's excellent website are countries such as Moldova, Kosovo, Kenya, Uganda and some others. The starting point is to support, through long-term cooperation, reforms and strategies that can guide the development of audit processes, user-friendly reports or qualitative relationships. These are also things that I think we should include when discussing the task of the Swedish National Audit Office. A national audit well established in the Riksdag, like what we have today to take a position on, plays an important role both in the outside world and here at home in Sweden.
i-77e323bcc0311778-32	Madam President, I would like I am pleased and proud that we finally have a ready-made proposal for a new Coast Guard Team. The Committee on Defence agrees with this, and I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. For over 300 years, the Coast Guard looked much the same. It consisted of two beach riders who were tasked with preventing smuggling and wrecking along the east coast of Sweden. A lot has happened since then. Today, Coast Guards play an important role in Swedish law enforcement. It monitors and controls maritime traffic and fishing, protects the environment and helps people at sea. It is involved in international cooperation to develop border control, law enforcement at sea, environmental protection and other maritime surveillance. However, the current regulation is dispersed in a number of laws, and the powers have not changed since the Coast Guard became an authority in 1988. This makes it difficult to get a comprehensive overview, and it also affects how the law is used and interpreted. Therefore, it is high time that the law was adapted to our time. It therefore feels good that the government is now proposing a new Coast Guard Act which contains all the powers and rules relating to the Coast Guard. I have taken note of many wise points of view from the consultative bodies and the opinion of the Legislative Council, and I can see that it is a well-prepared proposal that lies before us. The Coast Guard itself is positive and points out in its opinion that the proposals provide the conditions for more effective prevention, prevention and detection of crimes at sea and in coastal areas. This is not just about collecting regulations in one place. Perhaps the most important change is that the government proposes that the Coast Guard be given increased powers for law enforcement and maritime enforcement. The Coast Guard will now be able to investigate certain crimes on its own. The Agency will be allowed to carry out some preliminary investigation work. It will also have increased opportunities to support police work on law enforcement that is not directly related to the sea, such as violent crimes committed at sea. This will increase security at our borders, at our coasts and at sea. At the same time, the proposal also strengthens the powers of the police at sea. The police will now be given the right to search boats for weapons and other dangerous objects under the same conditions as today for searching vehicles. In fact, it has become more common for people associated with organised crime to use boats. There is a risk of illegal weapons being held on these boats when the police have not had the same authority. A policeman's ability to take care of these weapons has been limited. Of course, the Police Authority is primarily responsible for law enforcement. But we all have a lot to gain from the increased and more independent responsibility of the Coast Guard for law enforcement. The proposal also provides a clearer geographical framework. However, the law should still be applied in other geographical areas if the Police Authority, Customs or any other authority needs help. One such example may be that the Police Authority requests assistance from the Coast Guard due to disorder of order on an island. I am thinking, for example, of Ungskär in the Blekinge archipelago, where the Coast Guard can be on site faster than the Police Authority. The new geographical framework also means that Coast Guards will now be allowed to intervene on land if the crime itself has been committed at sea. Madam President, I would like Enhanced, coherent and more comprehensive regulation of Coast Guard tasks and powers will provide a more effective fight against crime. In addition, the new law will promote interaction between the various authorities, and this will also give the Police Authority much-needed relief. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-77e323bcc0311778-43	Madam President, I would like As a new Member of Parliament, it is quite important to stand here today and argue for the proposal for a completely new law, which we Moderates also call for. The Coast Guard Act brings together the powers of Coast Guards in the areas of law enforcement, enforcement and control and supervision in one law to make regulation more uniform and transparent. I like uniformity and transparency, and I like clarity here. We Moderates think it is good that the Coast Guard will now be able to investigate certain crimes at sea on its own and get the right to initiate and also in some cases carry out a preliminary investigation. I believe that we can make better use of their skills in this way. This proposal also strengthens the powers of the police at sea. The focus of the police on the core task – intervention, investigation and resolution of crimes – is necessary. Now, police officers will also be given the right to search boats for weapons and other dangerous objects under the same conditions as today for searching vehicles. That's good, because a pretty large part of our country has an area facing the sea – about 2,400 miles. And it has become increasingly common for persons associated with organised crime to acquire boats for use in different contexts, which, of course, involves the risk of illegal weapons being kept there. The only problem is that Sweden has a national police and security crisis. Sweden's police officers are given additional opportunities with this law to do their job, and that is good. But, Madam President, the problem is that there are not enough police officers to do the job. In January, as many as 48 police officers ended their employment for reasons other than their pension. Half of them were younger than 40. It is therefore people who have chosen to train as police officers but who are now leaving the profession prematurely. In order to keep police officers and attract more new police officers into the profession, police wages need to be increased. I know a case where a police officer now ends, and he gets $5,000 more a month when he changes jobs from being a police officer with shift jobs and all the risks to sitting in a municipality as administrator 9-17 a day. Of course, $5,000 a month attracts more. At least there will be a small sum of money every month, even though he lives in sparsely populated areas, drives a lot of cars and will now suffer one sparsely populated punishment after another. Madam President, I would like Competitive wages are crucial to remedy the police shortage, to get more people to stay in the police profession and make more more police. Therefore, it was a concrete measure from us Moderates to allocate resources in the 2019 budget – the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget – for increased police salaries. These are resources that can be used to raise police salaries, in addition to customary wage negotiations. But now it is extremely doubtful whether the initiative will take place. In order for more crimes to be solved, reforms are needed to strengthen the Swedish police and the judiciary. Madam President, I would like This is a brand new team that is great. But where's all the other stuff? You have to ask that question.
i-77e323bcc0311778-52	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' motivational reservation on the matter at hand. The Swedish Democrats are a Europe-friendly but EU-critical party. Cooperation and free trade with other countries in Europe is a matter of course for us and something we want to protect strongly. However, the fact is that the EU has long gone in an increasingly supranational direction, and neither is the area of cultural policy spared this trend. The new European agenda for culture from the European Union, which we are debating here today in this House, is welcomed by the Swedish Democrats in certain respects. Examples of this can be found in how the agenda demonstrates a willingness to emphasise the social and economic importance of culture and cultural heritage. There is, of course, something here, as culture and cultural heritage have enormous potential, even as we Swedish democrats see it. However, the Swedish Democrats also have significant criticisms of the new European agenda for culture from the EU. We see cultural issues as an area in which it is national competence that should and should be emphasised in particular vis-à-vis the European Union. Brussels should not set the agenda for what cultural agenda should prevail here in Sweden. Even as the EU with its Treaties is built up today, Article 167 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that cultural policy is a national competence. Article 167 stresses respect for national and regional cultural diversity and stresses the importance of improving the knowledge and dissemination of the culture and history of the peoples of Europe. It sounds good so far, I think. Looking at what I have just mentioned about cultural policy as a national competence and what is being highlighted from the EU at the moment, however, we Swedish democrats are seeing things that make us doubtful about the culture agenda that we are now discussing. The view of European identity that emerges from this dossier is problematic, and how to work with this identity from EU level is problematic. For us Europeans, Europe's rich cultural diversity can be a great asset and strength, for example in social and economic terms, as shown in the new agenda for culture. On the other hand, we need to beware of the centralisation of cultural policy at European level that we unfortunately see trends in the agenda we are now debating. For hundreds – yes, even thousands – of years, the European cultural diversity that we have today emerged through many different communities, nations, state formations and so on our continent. That this is how you need to understand and at the same time affirm. Moreover, to seek to centralise cultural policy from the EU in a way that has not happened before in history, we see Swedish democrats as contradictory and, at the same time, if we want to affirm the European cultural diversity that has emerged organically and for a very long time, it is risky. Rather, it is a high degree of decentralisation that has led to this diversity, not top-down governance and uniformity – although, of course, Europe's cultures today have a multifaceted background. We believe that the EU does not express a sufficient understanding of this connection and that it would have to adopt a more listening attitude on issues such as these. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats have also turned against budgetary proposals in the field of cultural policy when it comes to the EU level, given the view of cultural policy as a national concern and competence. The issue highlights proposals at European level, which we believe will, if implemented, lead to a violation of the approach we take on this issue – that budgetary proposals at European level restrict cultural policy as a national matter. As regards Creative Europe, which is highlighted in this dossier, we from the Swedish Democrats have expressed criticism when the Culture Committee has previously had the issue on its agenda. In view of the fact that in this case of a new European agenda for culture, reference is made to the fact that Creative Europe is to be a tool for implementing European cultural policy, there is also reason for us to be critical. These are some of the key points we from the Swedish Democrats have on the proposal for a new European agenda for culture.
i-77e323bcc0311778-63	Madam President, I would like We are here to debate a new European agenda for culture. This agenda aims to use the power of culture to create a more inclusive and fair Union and to support innovation, creativity and sustainable employment and growth. Madam President, I would like It is positive that the EU has agreed on an agenda that highlights the important importance of culture and recognises its inherent strength. It creates yet another incentive for the EU to continue to emphasise the importance of respecting the fundamental principles of freedom of expression and to work to strengthen civil society in all Member States and the right to artistic freedom – issues that, unfortunately, are no longer self-evident in all EU Member States. It is also welcome that the Agenda sees cultural heritage and digitisation as two horizontal and priority areas. Digitalisation in culture brings many new opportunities and contributes to the accessibility of culture, but it also presents some challenges – including in the form of copyright issues – which are difficult for a single country to solve on its own. There, common solutions are crucial. Cultural heritage is also of great importance as we contribute to greater knowledge and understanding of each other's history by nurturing and sharing the common cultural heritage with each other. It gives puzzle pieces in the interpretation of the contemporary. Madam President, I would like The position of the Swedish Government on this matter is well balanced. Since the agenda does not contain any proposals that involve changes to the regulatory framework in Sweden or are budget drivers, the Government is in favour of the proposal. However, the government is clear that further analysis of the various proposals will be necessary. Against this background, I call for all reservations to be rejected and support the committee's position.
i-77e323bcc0311778-68	Madam President, I would like Culture forms part of many EU policies, including education, research, social policy, regional policy and international relations. In today's globalised and interactive world, media and digital technology also play an important role in culture. The EU promotes cooperation on cultural issues between countries and international organisations. In a report, the European Commission states that over 12 million people are employed in creative and cultural industries in Europe. They represent 7.5% of all employees in the EU's overall economy in these sectors and make an important contribution to the EU's economic development. It creates an added value to GDP of around EUR 509 billion. It is therefore not only an expression of the diversity of cultural and creative industries, but also a major contribution to increasing employment and promoting the economy. Europe's rich cultural heritage and dynamic cultural and creative sectors consolidate European identity and create a sense of belonging. Culture promotes shared values and integration. Madam President, I would like The new European Agenda for Cultural Policy has three strategic objectives with social, economic and external dimensions. The first objective is to promote social cohesion and welfare through culture and cultural diversity. This will be done through increased participation in cultural life, improved mobility of artists and support for research in the field of culture to explore how culture affects different areas, such as health and well-being. The European Commission also wants to support culture-based creativity in education and innovation, growth and jobs. This will be done inter alia by promoting music and art in theoretical and practical training, supporting partnerships between creative professions and industry, and providing support to the regions. The third objective is to strengthen international and cultural relations by, among other things, encouraging cooperation on cultural heritage issues. Madam President, I would like When I come from Dalarna, which is one of the beautiful cultural counties in Sweden, I naturally think about what this can bring in practical terms for my county. On Monday, I and my moderate colleagues in the committee had the privilege of making a cultural journey in Dalarna and visiting some of the cultural institutions there. Among other things, we visited Rättvik and Folkmusikens hus, where we took part in the course activities that take place every summer and which is an exchange between Swedish folk music and other countries' folk music. Music unites the young people who take part in the courses and provides a consensus through the values that permeate them. The music, of different genres, means a lot to my county – also from an export point of view. But we also have talented computer game developers, filmmakers and a variety of other artists. We also have the fine Zorn collections and Carl Larsson-gården, which has art exchanges with different countries. It is precisely through these exchanges that culture develops and cultural values can be experienced. Access to art and culture is important for a region to develop and be attractive. Creative and cultural industries are an important part of this. All regions in Sweden have developed their own plans or programmes for cultural and creative industries, and EU cooperation highlights the cultural and creative sectors as essential. But I would also like to highlight, Madam President, the cultural heritage that we have to promote, especially in war-affected countries, in order to protect and restore the cultural heritage that has been damaged. Supporting culture as a driver for sustainable social and economic development is very important from an EU perspective. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-77e323bcc0311778-79	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Committee on Transport's report 6 on Bicycles. This report contains a large number of motions from most of Parliament's parties and 18 reservations. I would like to take this opportunity to call for approval of the Left Party's Amendment No 5 in this context. To sum up, these various exercises are about us all wanting to strengthen the role of cycling in society in different ways. The bonuses are generally answered by the fact that, since 2017, there has been a national cycle strategy adopted by the Government. A national knowledge centre for cycling has been set up, and it is also related to the national infrastructure plan, which will run until 2019. I think that on the whole it feels like things are moving forward, but it is still far too slow for us to strengthen the role of cycling in society. Cycling is a fantastic way to get from one point to another. There will be no emissions, so it is the most climate-friendly mode of transport we have. Exercise and fresh air are included. It's quiet and smooth – you can cycle almost anywhere. With the electric bike, which has come quickly in recent years, we also have the opportunity to cycle longer distances. The bike is now a real alternative to most car trips made in Sweden. Let us remember that most of the car journeys that are made are under the mile. There should thus be an incredible potential to increase cycling in Sweden. But there are a number of obstacles to this, Madam President. Many of these things we in the Left Party have been going on about a long time, and I will now bring them up again. The infrastructure is still planned in 2019 based on the needs of the car. We build cities based on the needs of the car. Only here in Stockholm can we see that one is in the process of building the mastodon project Bypass Stockholm, which will devour billions of SEK. Now there are proposals to build new motorways in the Stockholm area. If we plan our communities based on the needs of the car, there is something else that must be ironed on the foot, and that is unfortunately the cycling. It cannot be that the car should continue to be the norm. If you read the national infrastructure plan, which lasts ten years, for the infrastructure investments to be made in Sweden for a total of approximately SEK 700 billion, you have to search with light and lantern for named and moneyed bicycle infrastructure projects. The bicycle infrastructure is still treated rigidly in Sweden. We must change that, Madam President. The car should no longer be the norm in infrastructure planning. We need to turn the bike into its own kind of traffic and upgrade its position. Just as road, rail, boat and air transport are separate modes of traffic, cycling should be. We in the Left Party have also set a target for the bicycle's share of travel in Sweden to be at least 20 per cent. Should we achieve this objective, it would mean at least doubling the current cycle levels. We want this objective to be achieved by 2020. It may feel a little difficult today, but we have to do everything we can to increase the percentage of cycling in Sweden. We also believe that there is a point in setting concrete targets and then pursuing them. We need to build real bike paths. We need to build real bike paths. We need to build cycle infrastructure in coherent paths so that the cycle path does not end at the municipal or county borders. Here, for example, we need to change the road law, which today says that a separate cycle path cannot be built – cycle paths are built instead as cycle paths in relation to an existing road. Of course, we need to change this. We also need to make it easier to take the bike into public transport. I call on everyone who travels in, for example, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria or Switzerland to look around. It is quite natural that you can take your bike on the train. You set aside room for it. Perrongs and train stations have been built in such a way that it is easy to take the bike on the train. If it goes there, why wouldn't it go here? Of course we must be able to take the bike into public transport. Then we would also make it easier to cycle longer distances and not just in the place where we live. We believe that you gain a lot from rather simple things like building real bike parks, signposting better for cyclists and having systems with bikes or rental bikes, which are now available in many municipalities. These are excellent things to work on. We also think that the previous government's premium for electric bicycles was a good reform. We have premiums for electric cars – why should we not reward those who buy a new electric bike? We also need to remove barriers to cycle. Today, there is a problem in building so-called two-plus-one roads. It is often well motivated to do so; it will be safer to drive on these roads. But what happens is that you build a barrier for cycling. It is often not possible to cross these roads. The previously cycled space is being built away. We in the Left Party believe that the needs of cyclists should also be taken into account when building two-plus-one roads. You simply have to build a cycle path along the road. In this respect, I would like to endorse our Amendment No 5, which deals with this very point. Madam President, I would like It is high time for an active cycling policy. We in the Left Party welcome the fact that there is now a national cycling strategy and a centre of knowledge. That is a step in the right direction. Many of the things that I have mentioned fall under the cycle strategy, but what I may miss are the sharp proposals from the government. More needs to be done here, and I hope that this debate will help to make it happen.
i-77e323bcc0311778-98	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Transport's report No 6 on Bicycles. For time winning, we are content to ask for acquiescence to reservation 1. The Moderates believe that the cycle as a means of transport has a key role to make Sweden stronger, healthier and more sustainable. Increased cycling brings great socio-economic benefits. Making the cycle a more attractive option during daily commuting contributes to improved air quality, reduced congestion and increased accessibility. Today, the cycling infrastructure consists of unconnected, scattered sections. In my previous role as Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board in Stenungsund, it was difficult to see how the bicycle infrastructure would grow together. It could be a road or a mountain in between, or it was soil issues that were difficult to solve. I can remember a really difficult land issue that caused the cycle track to end abruptly in the middle of an open field. I can imagine that even our local newspapers found it nice to stop following this sequel that went on for many years. The Moderates note that Sweden has a long way to go and that there is a need for strong and concrete reforms to increase cycling. Madam President, I would like The Moderates note that in spring 2017, the Government presented a national plan for increased and safe cycling. It was the Alliance in the Transport Committee that was the driving force for an announcement to the government about demands to develop a national cycle strategy. Unfortunately, the cycling strategy became poor for concrete proposals and goals, so the Moderates urge the government to develop a national action plan to increase cycling throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The Moderates think that more coherent cycle paths and quick cycle paths should be prioritised in the development of the bicycle infrastructure. Such an extension would seriously make the bike an alternative to the car in many of our cities. We also think that the separation of traffic is important for road safety reasons and that the work on regulatory changes that facilitate cycling in our cities should be prioritised. The cycle path should be given a status as a road and no longer be reduced to an appendix to the road. It had created new possibilities for a cycle path to follow a train rail or get its own route. The status of cycling routes also needs to be categorized. There can be different speeds for a common pedestrian and cycle path, quick cycle path or a bicycle street where motor vehicles adjust their speed. There are two main things that need to be done: a coherent cycling infrastructure and clear rules that are well known to the public with clear signs and so on. The Moderates want more bikes. Thank you very much for listening!
i-77e323bcc0311778-109	Madam President, I would like I think that Sofia Westergren said many good things from the speaker's chair, not least that we need coherent bike paths that do not end at the municipal border. Sofia Westergren also said that we need to raise the status of the bike paths so that they are considered a road. Sounds like a good idea. Today we have big problems. There are plans for continuous cycle paths, for example between Lund and Malmö and in many other places. But they are standing up, partly because separate cycle paths cannot be built. There the road law is a problem, which says that a cycle path must not be built if it is not connected to a public road. My first question to the Moderates is simply: do you mean, like us, that the road law needs to be changed so that separate cycle paths can be built, or what other solution do you advocate? My second question is whether the Moderates, like the Left Party, think that one should be able to take the bike on the train.
i-77e323bcc0311778-113	Madam President, I would like I will start with the second question, because it is easy to answer. I see it as quite obvious that the train must be able to offer the opportunity to take the bike on the train. There we are in complete agreement with the Left Party. The second question was about ownership. After all, we have a procedure whereby you can go to compulsory redemption with 1.25 times the market value. It's in extreme cases of emergency, but that's the way it'll go in the long run. The landowner must be given fair compensation, absolutely. Everything else needs to be emptied out first, so it's a very restrictive attitude. We haven't landed in anything there. It's not done.
i-77e323bcc0311778-115	Madam President, I would like Then I suggest that the Moderates go home and think carefully about how to build real bike paths, because otherwise it can be one thing that the Moderates easily say without having any concrete suggestions. Of course you should get a very reasonable compensation if it goes as far as forced redemption. My second question was whether you should be able to take the bike on the train. That is not the case today. Now it looks like European legislation can change that. But it would be great if we could have a change in the near future. I think this is something that the government could quite easily arrange. For example, you could give an instruction to the National Railways, SJ, and say: Now you will be able to take the bike on the train with you. An instruction can also be given to Jernhusen, who operates the railway stations, so that it will be easy to take the bike all the way to the platform. Here the Moderates and the Left Party could join forces. We could make an announcement directly to the government and say that now is the time to take the bike on the train. Are the Moderates prepared to do so?
i-77e323bcc0311778-119	Madam President, I would like In fact, it is very wonderful when politics unites us, even if we do not agree on all issues. I'll take the question back to our group. Then we'll see what we can find out, Jens.
i-77e323bcc0311778-120	Madam President, I would like Cycling is a fast and efficient way to travel, especially in urban areas. We know that it also has positive effects on public health. The cycle can also contribute effectively to a better urban environment, but it must not be at the expense of road safety. We Swedish democrats are behind all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 12 and 16. The night before yesterday, when I took a walk home from Parliament, exactly what my speech will highlight happened. A cyclist, dressed dark and without lighting on the bike, came cycling towards the driving direction on Munkbrogatan in the direction of Munkbroleden. On this particular occasion, no car came to turn into Munkbrogatan, but let us assume that this had happened. How much chance had the motorist had in that situation? The road folds sharply to the right. Thus, the passing beam had not illuminated the dark cyclist traveling toward the direction of travel. In such a situation, the risk of collision would be imminent. Since the speed of the car would be low, the violence would not be fatal. But it could have ended with a serious head injury, because the cyclist didn't wear a helmet-- maybe she was afraid of her hair. The fall into a cobbled street would likely mean severe or perhaps even fatal head injuries. Madam President, I would like There are two things I would like to highlight with my speech. Firstly, the importance of using bicycle helmets. We Swedish democrats advocate an increased demand for the use of bicycle helmets. Falling head first into the street often leads to severe injuries that can cause but for life, such as hearing loss. Secondly, we Swedish democrats strongly reject the motions which propose that cyclists be given the right to travel towards the driving direction. It is against all common sense to let unprotected road users into the driving direction, it is like asking for increased accident rates for cyclists. Madam President, I would like Traffic rules are designed to create order and order in the traffic environment. The regulatory framework should make it easier for road users on the spot to know here and now what applies. In short, the rules should create harmony between different modes of transport. The integration of accident risks into legislation in this way is astounding. We Swedish democrats do not believe in the idea of letting cyclists travel towards the direction of driving. Nor do we believe that the very possibility of travelling towards traffic would increase the desire to cycle, as the proposed amendment of the law is justified. If we are going to attract more people to cycle, it is the special cycle tracks that will attract more people up on the bicycle saddle. Then you can travel safely without conflict with other vehicles. Such a solution is far better than allowing vulnerable road users to cycle against traffic. The incident on Munkbrogatan the other night clearly shows how quickly a serious accident can occur, even if the speed is low.
i-77e323bcc0311778-130	Madam President, I would like The bike has advantages over other modes of transport by being free of emissions and always powered by renewable energy. At the same time, the Centre Party notes that there is currently a lack of infrastructure capable of harnessing the potential of more people choosing a bicycle as a means of transport. Building sustainable habitats needs to enable individuals to choose climate-friendly transport modes to a greater extent. The Center Party believes that, on this basis, it is important to acknowledge and meet the needs of bicycle infrastructure. A national cycling plan should be provided which should take into account that as far as possible a cycle path along the national road network can be built and not, as it is today, that there is often only the possibility of cycling on the road. Furthermore, we in the Center Party also believe that the plan should be based on dealing with the missing links that have arisen when the so-called two-plus-one routes have been built. It will also be possible and easier for cyclists to get around. It should be easy to use the bike both in cities and in rural areas. One example of this is that in my hometown of Björketorp, located in Västra Götaland County, a new route between Björketorp and Salmisaari is planned. This is where a two-plus-one road is planned, where this planning should also include the construction of a cycle path along the road, to make it easier for people in society to get from their home to densely populated areas and then maybe go on by train. However, in the case of cycle paths along the national road network at motorways, motorways and two-plus-one roads, it is very important to continue to protect property rights. Furthermore, well-lit bike paths and other safety measures are needed to facilitate cycling all year round. In order for cycle paths to function well for their purpose, we believe it is of the utmost importance that they are both wide enough to enable overtaking and well lit so that obstacles and crossings are well visible. In conclusion, the Center Party would like to emphasise the importance of an infrastructure with safe cycle paths that are well maintained in terms of standards and are safe to travel throughout the year. Interest in cycling as a means of transport has increased as the cycle is good for public health, for example, while at the same time it does not generate emissions. Increased cycling would be good for the environment and health as well as for congestion in our cities. A large part of decisions relating to bicycle traffic are made locally or regionally, and the Center Party therefore believes that the national level must create the conditions for regional and municipal cooperation, for knowledge sharing and simpler rules for the construction of infrastructure in the country. Many municipalities that work actively with road safety choose to mark all or part of the bicycle tracks with colour, for example at traffic crossings, to alert cars and other road users to the fact that it is a cycle path. The Center Party believes that this ambition is good and in many places sought after. At the same time, we can see that there is no standardisation of colour choices. Uniform markings of cycle paths are among the measures that can simplify and facilitate cyclists and pedestrians. As national standardisation of colour choices would increase clarity and road safety, we believe that the coloring of cycle paths should be standardised and made equivalent throughout the country. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the Centre Party's reservations 4 and 17 in the report.
i-77e323bcc0311778-140	Madam President, I would like It is positive that today we have a national cycling strategy. It points to the need for community planning and a useful and well-functioning infrastructure, and it points to security. At the same time, we know that there are problems. For example, we have very different conditions. You can compare two municipalities in my home country. Trollhättan, which is located in a flat area, has its prerequisites and costs when building bicycle paths. In Uddevalla it is mountainous and rocky, and there are completely different conditions. You can also compare Stockholm, which is relatively densely built, with parts of Norrland that do not have the same conditions. It is clear that local shortcomings mean that cycling runway planning and cycling issues must be handled locally and regionally. On the other hand, there is a lack of co-planning, co-financing and security. We from our side want to emphasise that the municipalities have a great responsibility. Regions can assist municipalities in co-planning. Cycling has great values: good health, good environment and many times also good community. Another issue that we highlight in our exercise is the importance of education. I myself have had the privilege of participating in the setting up of a women's organisation. Maybe not everyone expected it, but I do. There is an organization in Uddevalla called Tehus Fyrbodal. In that organisation, Kvinna till Kvinna works with integration. One of the projects worked with the municipality was to organise training in cycling. They received financial support from the municipality and also from student associations. Women of different ages who had never tried cycling participated in the education. Now this is a women's organization so I wasn't there during the education, but I saw the pictures on Facebook. During the annual meeting, we learned about the joy of being able to keep a balance with a bicycle for the first time in our lives. Some of us have forgotten that joy because we learned to cycle early. It is important that the municipalities are involved in providing support and encouragement so that it becomes a living bicycle municipality, no matter where in Sweden you live. Increased security, cycle paths and the use of different protections are issues that we highlight. As a Christian Democrat, of course, I support all our requests. However, the motion to which I would like to give my assent and which I would like to highlight a little extra is our reservation 15. Why do I highlight that reservation a little extra? Well, we point out there that there should be legal protection for those who cycle. Motorists should show respect by keeping a distance of one and a half meters when driving over a cyclist. There are probably many of us who have cycled and felt the wind when a motorist drives a bit too fast on a road with more limited accessibility. To feel that wind and see your own daughter swerve to, you as a parent do not want to experience. You want to feel safe when you're out on a bike. There are no walking and cycling routes everywhere. Some of the cycling takes place on the ordinary road, as the Swedish Democrat pointed out earlier. Therefore, it is important that we constantly create security. I would like to endorse Amendment No 15.
i-77e323bcc0311778-150	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that the Liberals are behind all their claims and reservations, but I choose to highlight and call for the approval of reservation No 7 concerning infrastructure for increased cycling. It is gratifying that more and more people choose to take their bike to work. It provides regular exercise and is good for public health as well as for the climate. It also helps to reduce congestion. The introduction of the electric bike enables longer journeys. What was previously considered to be a steep slope because you would like to take the bike to work can now be forced by electric drive. Our cities have largely been planned around the car, and many cyclists today experience problems with too many traffic environments that from a bicycle perspective are ill-considered. In our societies, in many cases, overall planning and safe cycling infrastructure are lacking. The increased use of the cycle has unfortunately resulted in an increased number of accidents. There is also a large number of darkness, as many accidents are not reported. If we want to reward bicycle use, it is essential that we also provide safe cycle paths that take into account the interaction between cyclists and other vehicles. Research shows that maintenance of roads is one of the most important measures to make cycling routes safe. We in the Liberals believe that new technologies must be used. For example, cyclists themselves could automatically report cavities and bumps in the roadway via their mobile phones. The information can then be used to facilitate maintenance of the cycle paths. Cross-cutting planning for bicycle use should be promoted in order to eliminate dangerous traffic environments but also to build coherent, safe cycling routes on a regional and cross-municipal level. The focus should be on the whole journey. You should watch as you go out the door and all the way forward until you go in where you're going. That is why we must also include the possibility of taking the bicycle with us in public transport. Research in the field of cycling is underdeveloped. For many years there has been research in the area of vehicles, but there is still much to be done in the area of bicycles. This needs to be stepped up in order to facilitate the prioritisation of various social measures, including here in Parliament but also at regional and municipal level. I would like to highlight two examples. This is partly about the electric cycle. What impact does it have on bicycle safety? There is a system in place aimed at renting an electric bicycle. What consequences does it have that anyone – even someone who is above – can take a bike and use it? How does this affect cycle safety? It would also be interesting to see which changes in the traffic environment have the greatest impact on safety if priority is to be given to where social measures are to be implemented. So there are a number of issues that we need to be more highlighted. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to reiterate the role of the cycle in the health of the individual and in the improved air and environment for all. We need to step up the development of coherent safe roads in order to make it easier for cyclists.
i-77e323bcc0311778-162	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Transport Committee's Bicycles report. The report contains about 50 requests for exercise from general exercise time. I would like to begin by calling for the reservations to be rejected and for the proposal in the report to be approved. I can say at the outset, as is clear from the report, that during the previous parliamentary term the government took many steps to strengthen cycling. Not least, I am thinking of the national cycling strategy for safe and increased cycling. It is the first of its kind and is in itself a clear focus and enabler to continue to strengthen the work. In the national cycle strategy, we can read: The current challenges of climate change, air quality and noise in cities, congestion and physical inactivity lead to increased demands for community planning that provides better conditions for public transport, walking and cycling. ..................................................... Cycling is therefore not only good for increased public health but is a necessity for a sustainable transition. I myself am from Lund, a municipality that for a long time prioritised measures to promote cycling. There it is clear that active work on the design of the street space, investment in infrastructure and maintenance produce results in the form of more cyclists and an increase in cycling. Measures and infrastructure at different levels must be put in place to promote different types of cycling, whether it be bike commuters between municipal borders, those who commute by bus, train and bicycle on a journey or those who transport their child to preschool. We can see from other municipalities, including through the organisation Swedish Cycling Cities, that a number of Swedish municipalities are at the forefront to promote cycling and strengthen the infrastructure needed. We need to help each other. All parties at different levels and in different parts of society must assume their responsibilities in order for the bike to have the place in the social image that is highlighted in the cycling strategy. Madam President, I would like With this in mind, it is positive that the report is able to take note of the work that has resulted from, among other things, the national cycle strategy, whose priority areas are: 中 raising the role of cycling in community planning 中 increase focus on groups of cyclists – not least children and young people Promoting a more functional and user-friendly infrastructure
i-77e323bcc0311778-175	developing statistics and research; When it comes to cycling and road safety, it is important to constantly find more solutions that make cycling more safe but at the same time do not stop an increase in the percentage of cycling. Cyclists, like vulnerable road users, are a particularly vulnerable group, unfortunately found in traffic damage statistics. It is therefore important that it is raised as a special priority area and that, in addition to the regulatory changes being made in this area, we continue to work on the re-launch of the zero vision that began last parliamentary term. When it comes to statistics and research, I would particularly like to point out that we have since last year a national cycling centre in Linköping at VTI. The cycling centre is a key to a clear, nationally coordinated work on increased and safe cycling, not least to build up long-term knowledge building. We need to have a good overview of the research field and the needs to promote increased and safe cycling and to be able to steer efforts in the right direction. In addition to the work on the priority areas of the cycling strategy, the previous government has also decided on, among other things, five regulatory changes aimed at promoting increased and safe cycling. Precisely regulatory changes are often highlighted in the cycle debate and not least in the report. Therefore, it is particularly good that some of the Government's proposals came into force as late as the end of 2018. I would like to mention briefly that it concerns, among other things, road marking for bicycle boxes, simplified marking of cycling passages and crossings, and location marks for walking and cycling references. Madam President, I would like In addition to the realisation of important regulatory changes and strategic work, there are several key actors needed to continue implementing the cycle strategy. One of them is Swedish Cycling, an umbrella organization that includes, among other things, the Swedish Cycling Federation and Vätternrundan, to name but a few. The National Cycling Council, which is a forum for the cooperation of national efforts for increased and safe cycling, also has an important role to play. It is a forum led by Trafikverket, which produces national bicycle accounts to show the development of cycling in Sweden linked to the transport policy objectives. Madam President, I would like Much work is already being done for increased and safe cycling, but continued work is necessary. To conclude, I would therefore like to look to the future. In addition to the work on the national cycling strategy, it is clear in the January agreement concluded by the Government with the Center Party and the Liberals that the ambitions for cycling and a sustainable transition are the focus of our continued work. We will give priority to child-friendly and sustainable cities by developing and streamlining urban environment agreements to promote alternatives to car in cities, among other things. We want the percentage of people travelling by bike to increase. So far, the urban environment agreements have proved to provide many co-financing projects for cycling. This applies not least to my municipality of residence, Lund, where in the heart of the city through the urban environment agreements we will fund a bicycle garage that facilitates combined travel and the whole-trip perspective and thus becomes an important link to make it easier for all those who commute in our region. In order for more people to choose the bike, we also want to see that tax rules can make it easier for bike commuting. More people should be able to choose the bike and use it to get to work, school and leisure activities. It is clear to us Social Democrats. In particular, in order for Sweden to become the first fossil-free welfare country, this work must continue. With that, Madam President, I would once again like to endorse the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-77e323bcc0311778-187	Madam President, I would like In the government's policy to increase cycling in Sweden, there are many visions. We have the cycling strategy, the national cycling centre and so on. All that's great. But if we are really to be able to lift the role of the cycle in society, which I believe the Left Party and the Social Democrats are relatively agreed that we should, there is a need for both legislative changes and money. Money is needed to expand the bicycle infrastructure. But that is something I might miss in the national infrastructure plan. There you have to search for the named and moneyed bike objects with lights and lanterns, as everyone knows. A relatively simple thing that we could do is change the road law, so that you can build bicycle trails separately from the public road. It would make a lot easier. When do we get such a concrete proposal, Elin Gustafsson? Or do the Social Democrats have other thoughts about how we can facilitate separate cycle paths regardless of public roads? Madam President, I would like Elin Gustafsson said in his speech that the percentage of cycling should increase. That's great. We in the Left Party have said that 20 percent of the vanesing, for example to and from work, should be done by bicycle. Today we are at barely 10%. Do the Social Democrats and the Government have any proposal for a percentage target for how much we should increase cycling to? If we do not set a concrete goal, I think it is easy for that to be just a benevolent formulation that disappears.
i-77e323bcc0311778-190	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by emphasising that I am very pleased that Mr Jens shares my commitment and that of the Social Democrats to cycling. I look forward to us being able to strengthen the conditions for cycling even more together. We also see the need for more concrete action. That is why we are pleased that during the last parliamentary term the Social Democrats laid the foundations for further concrete work, to which the national cycle strategy was a key. The question of objectives has already been examined. We are now looking at which objectives will be appropriate in addition to those already in place in the field of transport policy. But we're clear. The percentage of cycling should increase, and so we need to take steps in this direction. The national cycle strategy contains concrete proposals for cycling infrastructure. We think it is incredibly important that we continue to maintain the identified areas of the national cycle strategy. It is a strategy to be followed up with more concrete action. We laid the foundations during the last parliamentary term and look forward to continuing to deliver. We hope that Jens will be involved in that work.
i-77e323bcc0311778-193	Madam President, I would like Elin Gustafsson said that there is a clear goal for how much cycling should increase. I wonder what the target is. That is the question I asked, and I do not think I really got an answer to it. If there is not a numerical target today, but there is such an ambition perhaps Elin Gustafsson can tell us when a proposal for such a goal will be made. If that ambition does not exist, she can say so. I also asked a question about the road law and the possibility of building bicycle trails separately from the public road. This is something that is addressed in the cycling strategy. The Finnish Transport Administration is investigating the matter, but they're investigating it on the basis of ground access. It doesn't have to mean a change in the road law. That's why I focused my question on the road law. Does the government intend to make such a proposal? Does the Socialist Party think that changes should be made to the road law so that we can build bicycle paths more easily? I take it that there are no such proposals to be included in addition to those contained in the cycle strategy. Is that interpretation correct?
i-77e323bcc0311778-195	Madam President, I would like With regard to objectives, I would like to point out once again that, on the basis we laid down in the last parliamentary term, we really increased the ambitions for cycling. There are objectives relating to the value of the cycle linked to the transport policy area. I was very clear in my speech that we want the percentage of cycling to increase. We look forward to continuing to deliver measures that go in this direction to promote increased cycling. It is necessary for us to be able to turn into a sustainable society. I think that is clear. On the issue of road law, I can say that many different measures are needed to make it easier for us at different levels of society to build more concrete infrastructure. That is why, as I said, this has been pointed out in the cycling strategy that exists. That is why we will also have to take many different measures to make it happen in reality. We need to invest more in cycling, and we need to deliver more on the basis of the national cycling strategy. We look forward to that.
i-77e323bcc0311778-197	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Elin Gustafsson for a very good speech, in my view. I recognize much of what you are presenting, and I am glad that you devote so much of your speaking time to security and security. It has emerged in the debate that you come from Lund, and there you have a long tradition of cycling. There is, however, one thing that is a little surprising to me. We Christian Democrats have highlighted a safety issue that concerns the safety of children and young people when it comes to cycling. This is a change of rules in which, as a car user, you simply have to keep one and a half meters away from cyclists. I am a little surprised that the government side does not catch up on this idea, because this is something that I think we should really be able to agree on. It does not involve any great costs, it is not difficult to implement and it would increase the safety of the children, just as you yourself highlighted in your speech. I am therefore a little curious as to how you are discussing our reservation 15.
i-77e323bcc0311778-200	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for your commitment to bike issues and for highlighting children and young people and cyclists from a road safety perspective! We Social Democrats think this is very important, and that is why we are clear about this. It is included in the report, and it is included not least in the re-launch of the zero vision, where it is pointed out. We need to take more action and look at more possible regulatory changes to see how we can make it easier for more people to ride on the basis of strong security. With regard to the specific question of the rule that you are asking, this is contained in the report, which points out that this is a difficult question: is it just one and a half meters that is the safe distance? There are different groups of cyclists; not all are the same. Magnus Jacobsson himself points out that children are a particularly vulnerable group, and they may need a longer distance. That is one of the reasons why this is an important issue to continue to follow, as the report also states. The issue has also been debated in the past. As I began by saying, the Social Democrats believe that we need to take many different measures to ensure the safety of our cyclists so that more people can take their bikes both to work, to school and to recreational activities.
i-77e323bcc0311778-204	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer, of course, but I note a bit dry that no distance is worse than any distance. A person with my figure might need more than a foot and a half, and a child waving may also need it. But I note the answer. However, I have one more question. In the settlement that is now taking place between the Social Democracy, the Centre Party and the Liberals, you are raising the tax on the operation of rural vehicles. At the same time, it is a strong focus on the importance of being able to cycle. This will, of course, require investments mainly in cities such as Lund, Stockholm or Gothenburg, where cycling is appropriate. But how do you feel that this policy is linked to the life of the whole country? In fact, I don't think everyone up in Dalsland feels that the bike is the solution to their everyday problems.
i-77e323bcc0311778-207	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for the important question! As a social democrat, I am happy to talk about the importance of keeping the whole country together with a strong and important infrastructure. We must not least ensure that the whole country is involved in transforming Sweden into the first fossil-free welfare country. We must ensure that different modes of transport are available regardless of whether you live in Dalsland, Skåne or Norrland, and we must look to the whole-travel perspective, where the bike may be part of the trip. We must, of course, ensure that there are good and safe train connections and roads along with a good bicycle infrastructure. It is extremely important, and in this way we see that we build the whole of Sweden strong. Then we need to ensure that cycling is part of all the efforts needed for the whole country to develop and grow.
i-77e323bcc0311778-209	Madam President, I would like Society is facing a major change. In order to reduce our CO2 emissions at the rate required to achieve the Paris Agreement's objective of a temperature rise well below two degrees, and hopefully even being able to limit the temperature increase to a maximum of one and a half degrees, the transport sector really needs to be reformed. And then the cycle needs to take a significantly larger share of transport, both passenger transport and less freight transport. There is no doubt that cycling has huge benefits both for individuals and for society. Cycling reduces emissions of carbon dioxide but also of harmful particles. At the same time, it is an active mode of transport, which makes cycling easier to reach the need for 30 minutes of physical activity per day that we adults have. Cycling is also economical. The bike is a relatively cheap vehicle, and the infrastructure is not very expensive compared to the needs of cars. So these are the questions to which we should all draw our attention: How do we get more people to ride more bikes? How do we make the bike the obvious choice? How do we make cycling more attractive? It is easy to point out that municipalities are the ones that should do this job. The municipalities have, of course, responsibility for a very large part of the Swedish cycle paths; I am fully aware of that as former municipal councillor for the questions in Lund. Lund, as you heard here earlier, is one of the municipalities that invest in cycling, and the award has been given on several occasions as Sweden's best cycling municipality. But I believe that cycling is a matter of national interest, and that is why I want to see a stronger national bicycle policy. The Government decided in 2017 to adopt a national cycling strategy. It is a good one, and it is an important step forward. The strategy highlights many of the benefits of cycling, such as its sustainability and its contribution to increased public health. Although the cycling strategy has the title A national cycling strategy for increased and safe cycling, it lacks concrete targets for how much cycling should increase. There are currently national targets for cycling, such as the sectoral target for transport within the climate policy framework. It reads as follows: a reduction of at least 70% in emissions from domestic transport, excluding domestic flights, by 2030 compared to 2010. 中 Cycling traffic can be an important tool for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, especially in urban and urban areas. After all, most car trips are shorter than five kilometres — a route that most adults can easily cycle. There is also an intermediate objective within the environmental objective system that focuses on sustainable transport: a minimum of 25 per cent passenger transport by public transport, cycling and walking in Sweden by 2025, expressed in passenger kilometres, towards doubling the proportion of pedestrian, bicycle and public transport in the long term. However, this objective does not distinguish between the law of walking, cycling and public transport and may therefore not have the same regulatory effect on transport policy as a purely bicycle target would have. In order to focus measures and resources on increasing cycling traffic as described in the national cycling strategy, concrete national targets for increasing cycling traffic are needed. That is what we in the Green Party believe. The report points out from the committee that Trafikanalys is working on method development for monitoring cycling, among other things. During its term of office, the Green Party will work to ensure that a national target for increased cycling becomes a reality. But, Madam President, to really increase cycling, a national target is just a tool. Good cycling infrastructure is crucial for increased and safer cycling. The national transport infrastructure plan is perhaps the most important policy document for the development and maintenance of the Swedish transport system. Here, unfortunately, the bicycle road network still has a rather peripheral and toned-down role. Bicycles are often considered to be an issue to be dealt with at municipal or possibly regional level. The ambition to work actively to increase cycling is very different in different municipalities and regions. Since it should be of national interest to increase cycling in order to achieve both reduced emissions and increased public health, the state should ensure that municipalities and regions take responsibility for developing the cycling infrastructure. Therefore, the bicycle infrastructure should be highlighted more clearly in the future national plan. For example, the replacement of two-plus-a-way cycling facilities which are lost should be self-evident. The experience of ambitious regions, such as Region Skåne, where the appropriations for the bicycle infrastructure were doubled in its latest RTI plan, i.e. the regional transport infrastructure plan, is that, despite this effort, sufficient funds are lacking to adequately expand the bicycle infrastructure. At present, it is possible to get state co-financing for bicycle infrastructure through urban environment agreements, which is very positive. However, it requires own efforts in the form of compensatory payments. Investment in bicycle infrastructure is simply needed, and we need to set a minimum level for the requirements of the county councils and regions so that they really keep to the level needed to expand the bicycle infrastructure. The municipalities obviously have the ultimate responsibility for their own bicycle infrastructure, but it is reasonable for the state, by maintaining and extending co-financing, to maintain and develop the forms of state co-financing for bicycle routes. By creating a clearer picture of how the cycling network is developing, resources can also be better allocated. That is why, as the national cycling strategy also highlights, we think that the state's funding for bicycle infrastructure needs to be better monitored. It is also positive that the government expresses that the requirements for reporting should be tightened up both at national level and on the efforts made through the county transport plans. A stronger national bicycle policy is needed, and the cycle needs to be seen as its own type of traffic, not just an appendix to the car. Then state-funded cycle paths can have a more natural place and stretch. From the Green Party, we also believe that the state should be able to co-finance measures that can affect transport demand and the choice of transport modes, as well as measures that provide more efficient use of existing infrastructure, i.e. so-called Stage 1 and Stage 2 measures according to the four-step principle. For more people to start cycling, cycling needs to be seen as an attractive alternative to the car in particular. Today, however, many of the traffic rules that apply are shaped for a society where the car was seen as the obvious norm. Laws and rules are simply designed in an arbitrary and unnecessarily complicated way from a cyclist's perspective. A number of regulatory changes have been implemented, but further regulatory changes and simplifications for cyclists are needed to increase the attractiveness and accessibility of cycling infrastructure. We therefore believe that more proposals to make the cycle more attractive through regulatory simplification need to be explored. For example, it can be all green or the possibility to cycle towards red at the right turn. To get more people to cycle more, resources, surface area and accessibility need to be strengthened. The bike needs to feel like the obvious choice for more trips, and then travel needs to be able to take place seamlessly and without hassle from door to door. The bike can be used throughout the journey or as part of the journey, and the journey should be perceived as smooth, safe and time-efficient. The Green Party will work to increase the role of the cycle in both national and local transport policies. However, we do so within the framework of our intergovernmental cooperation and therefore call for the report as a whole to be approved and for the motion to be rejected.
i-77e323bcc0311778-226	Madam President, I would like I would really like to ask the same question again, because I feel that this is about perspective. I am well aware that the Green Party's electoral base is primarily found in big cities, and that is also heard in the discussion. It's really important to have questions about bikes. It is extremely important that we get more people to ride a bike and that there are more opportunities to ride a bike. But when you, for example, reason in terms of the bike becoming an appendage to the car in the sense that that is how others perceive it, I think you misunderstand how many people have it. Although we agree with most of the report, the fact remains that the cycle will not solve everyday problems, especially in winter. A single mother in Pajala will not think about taking her three children to school. Here, somewhere for me, a dilemma arises with the government's policies. In M's and KD's budget, we reduced the increase in fuel tax, but you are increasing the increase in fuel tax – of course from an environmental perspective. You want to make it more expensive and more difficult to use a car, and today we also hear you speak warmly in favour of using the bike more. We in the KD share the view that we should use the bike more– where appropriate. Your policy puts the countryside at a disadvantage, and I wonder how you're going to mate it. Here you are pursuing a line that is well-lawed and good, but you are taking other political measures that actually disadvantage those who live outside large cities like Lund.
i-77e323bcc0311778-229	Madam President, I would like This cycle as an appendix to the car is actually about law and what is prescribed in the Road Act. It is not a question of seeing the bike as an appendix to the car in the general sense only, it is a question of law, and it needs to be changed. I must stress what Elin Gustafsson said here earlier that the bike in very large parts of the country can be used throughout the trip or during part of the trip. In combination with public transport you can get far with the bike as part of the trip. I would also like to say that there are, of course, large parts of our country that will not be able to use the bicycle as their main means of transport. In some parts of the country, we simply have to accept driving on a daily basis. That is precisely why the Green Party has been working to ensure that we have measures to change the fleet of vehicles. Bonus – malus makes it more profitable to buy a car that is better for the environment and climate and that it costs more to buy a worse car. The reduction obligation introduced by the change of fuel ensures that the cars already in the fleet in Sweden will also contribute to less emissions. The bike is a very important mode of transport both in the city and in the country or in smaller urban areas. More and more people could cycle more, but in some places it is actually perfectly okay that the car is the main mode of transport.
i-77e323bcc0311778-233	Madam President, I would like This is a bicycle report, and we fully agree that the cycle is an important vehicle that we need to highlight. It works for a lot of people in everyday life. The electrification of the bike has made it easier for many people in everyday life, and we also see how many of our traffic leaders allow us to combine, for example, local traffic with a bicycle. So there is no discussion about that part. I am only still saying, well aware that we have different views, that your common policy, the coherent sum of your policy, is that you tax the countryside and benefit those who live in cities such as Lund, Stockholm and Uppsala. Unfortunately, those who live outside these major agglomerations will have to bear an extremely high cost to your policy, and I regret that.
i-77e323bcc0311778-235	Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to see how our investments in bicycles are helping to make things worse in rural areas. I believe, as I said, that it also benefits those living in the country if it is easier to cycle in the city or to the city and the town. Magnus Jacobsson earlier highlighted the example that a mother of three from Pajala would not cycle. Then you should be aware that Luleå has made great efforts when it comes to winter cycling, not least among children and young people. They have got entire school classes to choose to cycle even in winter – in Luleå where there are plenty of snow. You can use cycling as a way to get to school. How amazing it is if you can avoid taking your car to school or leisure activities! It saves many trips, and although it does not save all car trips in Luleå, it is an important step along the way.
i-VoZtVPpLUQkThYYbJizZ4e	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Jennie Nilsson and Minister Matilda Ernkrans. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-77e323bcc0311778-238	Madam President, I would like Yesterday it emerged that Sweden's ambassador to China arranged a meeting in Stockholm between the daughter of Swedish citizen Gui Minhai, who is imprisoned in China, and Chinese businessmen. The meeting itself, as well as the information that has emerged about, among other things, pressure and attempts to silence, is extremely serious. How can this be allowed to happen at all? The State Department must now put the cards on the table in public. Who did what, on whose behalf and why? So far, the government has not commented on the matter at all. I would therefore like to ask the government representative here today: what is the government's comment on what has happened? What role has the Ministry for Foreign Affairs played, and when will the cards be put on the table?
i-77e323bcc0311778-242	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Government's commitment to Gui Minhai is deeply known. It is conducted with vigour and aims at a solution where Gui Minhai can regain his freedom and join his family. Due to the misbehaviour of the events at the end of January, an internal investigation has been initiated and the embassy concerned has received a new acting manager. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs in Stockholm was not aware of the events until the end of January, after the meetings had taken place, and has therefore initiated an internal investigation.
i-77e323bcc0311778-244	Madam President, I would like I welcome, of course, the fact that the Government notes that the action is wrong. It is clear that this incident needs to be investigated. We Moderates expect the results not only to be presented to the Foreign Affairs Committee here in Parliament but to the entire Swedish people. When is it estimated that the investigation will be completed? And, most importantly, how will the government ensure that it never happens again?
i-77e323bcc0311778-246	Madam President, I would like An internal investigation has been initiated. I do not want to comment on exactly when it is finished, because it is to be implemented correctly and according to all the rules of art. As I understand it, the Secretary-General has informed the Foreign Affairs Committee earlier today of what we know so far. But the investigation should be carried out, and then we will have to come back to the result.
i-77e323bcc0311778-248	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister Nilsson. After the tax increase in January, fuel prices have reached new record levels. It is now four years since the S-MP government passed the proposal for the annual automatic increase in fuel tax. Together with us in SD, M and KD got through a freezing of overindexation last fall. Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin has now gone out and flagged because the government wants to reintroduce the automatic increase in fuel tax. However, the car is absolutely essential in rural areas. It is a basic requirement for a normal life in places where public transport is lacking. It is well known that rural minister Jennie Nilsson wants to work to close the gap between town and country. My question to the Government is therefore: does the Government consider the automatic increase in fuel tax to be a reliable tool for closing the gap between town and country?
i-77e323bcc0311778-251	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. The issue is, of course, close to my heart, linked to the fact that it affects the conditions for living in rural areas. But in substance it is not an issue that is being dealt with in my department. However, I note that the indexation and the decision that has been made in the past remain. No specific decisions have been taken after that. As I see it right now, the issue is more fundamental. We all have a lot of work to do. It is about various measures that means that you can live and live in the whole of Sweden. This will mean looking at differentiation and targeted actions. It is about strengthening the competitiveness of business. There should be good care, and you should invest in infrastructure. On the horizontal issues, we are very much in agreement. As far as the specific issue is concerned, there have been no specific decisions relating to what you said.
i-77e323bcc0311778-254	Madam President, I would like A pregnant woman is dragged out of the subway by several security guards. There are repeated and aggressive police controls. Many are the testimony of persons who have been mistreated by the forces of law and order. What they have in common is that they have a look that is not really Swedish. I have asked Mr Damberg, on two written questions, what he intends to do. He has announced on behalf of the government that nothing will happen. I'm going to give the minister another chance. The Left Party's proposal is to introduce a multicultural course in police training. The Left Party and the police want to see a review of the regulations of the forces of law and order. We must have an equal society where people are not afraid that they have a foreign background. They shouldn't be afraid of cops and security guards.
i-77e323bcc0311778-258	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Westerlund Snecker, for the question! It is incredibly important to see that it is the police who guarantee security and security in our country. Order guards are a complement to the police. If there are situations where security guards break the rules, it is the police who withdraw the permits for them. It is important that we have such a system. It is correct that a case has been submitted by the Police Authority. They want to look at the position of security officers in Sweden, given that they are receiving an ever larger assignment. As we are waiting for the major expansion of the police organization and it still takes a while before the 10,000 more police employees are in place, many municipalities are currently working with security officers and other things. Then you might work a little further than it was originally intended. I would ask you to come back to us when we have prepared the matter. But then it is important to say that neither police nor security officers can violate Swedish law.
i-77e323bcc0311778-261	Madam President, I would like It's not enough with a button on the jacket team that says, "Don't touch my friend." The change must come from within the forces of order, but also from a political point of view. Then we need politicians who are clear that racism is unacceptable and that everyone should be treated equally. It's equality, Home Secretary Damberg. There must be equality, and that is why the powers and training of security officers must be reviewed now.
i-77e323bcc0311778-262	Madam President, I would like I think that we in this House are in complete agreement on the point that racism is not okay, that the police authorities and security officers should comply with Swedish legislation and that it is incredibly important that you report if you feel that you have been mistreated, because it is a prerequisite for the police to be able to intervene if the security officers do not do their job properly.
i-77e323bcc0311778-263	Madam President, I would like A fair and effective migration policy requires that a no is a no. This is not the case in today's Sweden. We have tens of thousands of people in Sweden illegally who should have been expelled. An important but often forgotten activity within the Finnish Immigration Service's work is detention. The police and the Migration Board believe that the number of seats must be doubled. The Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget, which was adopted here last autumn, earmarked SEK 100 million to expand the number of detention places. Recently, Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson said that he wants to wait with instructions to expand the number of detention centres. My question to the Minister for Migration is very simple: When does the government intend to follow Parliament's decisions?
i-77e323bcc0311778-266	Madam President, I would like The problem for the Moderates on this issue, Arin Karapet, is that you are late on the ball. In your time, you had 250 detention places. We have expanded in the spring, and now we have over 450. We have expanded the number of detention centres by 80% overall. We have a high rate of return in Sweden right now. Over the last five years, more than 70 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden and either returned to their home countries or to another EU country where they were registered from the beginning. It's over 1,000 a month. We are continuing to expand the number of detention centres. We will establish a new repository in northern Sweden. We have far more detention places than the Alliance had in its time, and my assessment is that we will have to continue to do reinforcements in order to fulfil the important task of ensuring that we have order and order in migration policy.
i-77e323bcc0311778-269	Madam President, I would like I find it remarkable that the Minister for Migration reviews the alliance government, which resigned in 2014. It's 2019 now. I see a pattern, on the one hand, that the Minister for Migration does not want to give instructions to the Migration Agency to increase the number of detention places, and on the other hand that the government does not want to raise police salaries, which is contained in the Moderate and Christian Democrats budget, which has been adopted by the Swedish Parliament.
i-77e323bcc0311778-272	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member can read more. There is and has long been an assignment for the Migration Agency to expand the number of detention places, which they have also done. As I said, this is an increase of 80 percent since 2016 in terms of number. You spent a hundred million dollars, I think, and said it would be enough for 100 seats. There you counted as crates, as you usually do. Each place costs about 1.3 million; only 60 - 70 seats are sufficient. We will of course continue to expand the detention centres and, as I said, establish a new detention centre in northern Sweden.
i-77e323bcc0311778-275	Madam President, I would like Only in January this year, 48 police officers in Sweden ended for reasons other than retirement. While many police officers leave the profession, we see that many places in education are empty. There is therefore a great need to make an important profession as a police force more attractive in Sweden. For this reason, it was welcome that before Christmas the Parliament decided on a special salary scheme aimed at the country's police officers. This is in a first step of SEK 360 million and has been fully expanded on an average of nearly SEK 3 000 per police officer. Unfortunately, the government has so far not wanted to implement the special wage investment. In fact, the government does not seem to want to give any instructions whatsoever to the Police Authority to use this money as intended. I would therefore like to ask Minister for Home Affairs Mikael Damberg: why does the government not want to give the police the special wage investment that we have decided in this House?
i-77e323bcc0311778-277	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we are politically broad in agreement on major investments in the police. It is important both for the police organisation to grow by 10 000 more police workers by 2024 and for the conditions for the police to be improved so that it becomes an attractive profession that more people not only want to seek but also return to. Curiosity: I was in Malmö the other day and visited the Police Region south. They told me that 40 police officers now return to the profession after leaving it in connection with the big mess at the reorganization. I hope that this is a sign that police officers see that the new organisation is starting to bite, that the issues of conditionality are improving and that it is becoming even more attractive to enter the police profession. We have 30 000 police employees in Sweden for the first time, including 20 000 police officers, so things are moving in the right direction. However, it requires an extension of the training courses in order for us to have more police officers, and it also requires good conditions.
i-77e323bcc0311778-280	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear the travel reports of the Minister for the Interior, but I would like to repeat my question. I think we have a couple thousand police officers in the country who are wondering now. The Swedish Parliament has thus decided on a special salary investment that should go to wages, not anything else within the Swedish Police Authority. There, the government has an important responsibility to ensure and govern its authority. Is the government prepared to govern this at all so that the money goes to wages and nothing else?
i-77e323bcc0311778-282	Madam President, I would like I can only say that the money decided by the Parliament has been paid to the Police Authority. It is important to distinguish roles. We agree in this House that there should be better conditions, but these conditions should be negotiated by the Police Authority and the trade unions. This is also in the reservation decided by the Riksdag.
i-77e323bcc0311778-285	Madam President, I would like Annually, thousands of young people are eager to go to higher education institutions to write their university test. It is an important opportunity in Sweden to be able to compete and enter into attractive training courses at all. It may be the medical program or the legal program, to name a few examples. Recently, attention was paid to a cheater, who is currently in the midst of a trial with harsh charges. My question to Minister Matilda Ernkrans is: How does the government intend to proceed on this issue to ensure that none of the young people who have cheated themselves to a place in competition with other, caring young people may remain at the country's higher education institutions?
i-77e323bcc0311778-287	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for a very important question! It goes without saying that everything we feel and know in our morals is against being able to cheat into a place at our colleges and universities. As the honourable Member said, it is often a matter of highly sought-after training, such as medical school or the legal programme. What we need to tackle right now is to clarify that you should not be allowed to keep the points you have taken if you have been taken for cheating, which you can be now, as the honourable Member said. What, then, are we going to do with the points that have been made? Of course it goes against everything we feel and think you should keep the point. Learning institutions do different, and we need to review the regulations so that it becomes legally secure and so that the universities can do the same. I'm prepared to take this further.
i-77e323bcc0311778-291	Madam President, I would like In addition to the 23 people who are currently in the legal process, there is a customer register with between 200 and 350 so-called customers who have used the cheat service. We in the Liberals think it is important that first of all they cancel, that is to say they cancel, their test results, and that they should not be allowed to write the university exam in two years. It is also important, not least from a fair point of view, that they lose their place. In addition, the points taken should of course be considered.
i-77e323bcc0311778-293	Madam President, I would like It is already in place, this that you lose your place. We can already see that. This is how the higher education institutions have acted in the cases that have now been up, and I assume that the higher education institutions will act wisely and well in the future as well. What I have done is to quickly take the initiative to see how we can get a legal certainty on how to handle the credits you have taken when you are taken for cheating. I am prepared to move on with this, and so will I.
i-77e323bcc0311778-295	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. Every day in the Öresund region tens of thousands of commuters are controlled in border controls, according to the government to counter threats to internal security in Sweden. However, no examples have been found that concrete threats to national security have been halted. At the same time, the border police have alerted that the airport lacks the resources to control people suspected of being potential terrorists or belonging to theft leagues. In summary, commuters in Skåne are checked and delayed every day. Suspected criminals at Arlanda Airport are being released.
i-77e323bcc0311778-300	Madam President, I would like The government has recently decided to extend internal border controls for a further three months. We do so in accordance with the existing regulations, when we consider that it is necessary for the security threats to Sweden and for us to be able to guarantee internal security. We will continue to assess this, and that is an overall assessment we are making. I can only say that about 200 people a week are denied entry to Sweden because they do not have the right to come here, and it is discovered thanks to internal border controls. I can also note that Mr Säpo estimates that the terrorist threat to Sweden remains at a third level, which is a fairly high level that justifies increased security and internal border control. Then there are other points with internal border control. We also get control of crime waves in a completely different way. We see that the waves of theft, not least in southern Sweden, have decreased quite sharply since internal border controls were introduced.
i-77e323bcc0311778-303	Madam President, I would like The fact that there are threats to Sweden is a fact, unfortunately. It is also a fact that the border police have limited resources. Perhaps I may repeat the question of whether it is a good priority for these resources to control Scanian commuters rather than to control concrete threats that the border police point out and themselves say that they do not have the resources to control. In my mind, it is better to control suspected theft leagues than ordinary Skåne commuters.
i-77e323bcc0311778-305	Madam President, I would like It turns out that internal border controls have meant that we also have better control of theft gangs moving across our borders. But it is the Police Authority that decides where you want to put your resources and where in Sweden you should have internal border controls. Linked to Arlanda, I can note that the Police Authority is now going out with up to a hundred new positions at Arlanda to improve border control there.
i-77e323bcc0311778-308	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Rural Affairs. Throughout the election movement, what I know all parties spoke about is that all of Sweden will live. All parties spoke warmly that the gap between town and country must be narrowed. That's why we in KD and M removed the index count for petrol and diesel in our budget. Now the government has announced that the tax will be indexed by 2% for petrol and diesel. This tax increase will hit people living and working in rural areas most strongly. My question is: why does the government want to increase the gap between city and country when we tried to reduce it in our budget?
i-77e323bcc0311778-312	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! I note that it is on the same theme as the previous one I was given, and I would like to say once again that this is not really an issue that is being dealt with by me as a minister or my department – although the opportunities to travel around and travel when living in rural areas are very important. I want to be clear about what's done. What was done in the M-KD budget was that it temporarily, temporarily for a year, removed the indexation. It is not restored by this government. Nor has indexing been removed as a system, but it remains and continues to tick. If you want a political debate on this issue, you have to come back and put proposals on the table of Parliament, and then we have to have a political debate on it there and then. Otherwise, I can only agree that this was an important issue in the electoral movement. It needs to be worked with a broad range, and I am very pleased with and happy about the commitment across party boundaries that seems to be there for this.
i-77e323bcc0311778-316	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. Rural areas are, as it were, in our hearts, and so I think it is important to ask about this. Anyone who lives and works in the countryside can see how the gap is getting bigger. The car is important for living in rural areas, and the vast majority do not have access to either metro or bus. My question is whether the Minister can promise to work for the whole of Sweden to live and for the tax burden on rural people to be reduced – or at least not increased.
i-77e323bcc0311778-319	Madam President, I would like I think that the question of being able to live and live throughout Sweden needs to be made as broad as possible. Then this is a part that needs to be discussed. It is clear that you will never be able to take the metro in Hylte municipality, which is my municipality of residence, in the same smooth way as in Stockholm. You need to work with different ways, but I don't think you should lock yourself in to one thing. These could be differentiated systems, targeted actions for better public transport, and much more. I look forward to a debate on these issues.
i-77e323bcc0311778-321	Madam President, I would like My question is to the Minister of Justice. For us Social Democrats, crime is a threat to the whole of democratic society, a threat to be fought by all means. It is when faith in the future is lost that gangs and violence become an alternative. Gang crime is a major problem that we take very seriously. Over the last parliamentary term, we have given the police and the judiciary more resources and better tools and, at the same time, we have waged an uncompromising fight against serious organised crime. It has had a clear effect. More people are in custody. More people are in prison. But that doesn't solve the whole problem. As Chairman of the Committee on Justice, I am convinced that we need to have a much broader social debate on this and that we need to look wider at the issue. I also share the view of the National Police that efforts from the whole of society are needed.
i-77e323bcc0311778-326	Madam President, I would like Breaking organised crime is the most important issue in this area. If we do not, we will end up in a systemic situation where people do not dare to report crimes or testify and where criminals can keep entire areas under their control. We must certainly not end up there, and to the extent that we have already done so, we must reverse this trend. As the questioner says, we have gone forward with police efforts, punitive measures and quite a lot of law enforcement efforts. However, we must also step up prevention in order to prevent recruitment. The head of the National Police usually puts it as saying that for every guy in these gangs that the police take, there are maybe ten more that are about to be recruited. And the police are taking quite a few right now... as the questioner said, the jails are almost full. Now it's time to stop recruitment. The government has today had a general discussion about taking the list of measures available, going through them part by part and seeing what we can do in both social policy and education policy and in all other areas to gather together in the field of prevention.
i-77e323bcc0311778-330	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We will fight the crimes but also the cause of the crimes. We Social Democrats have been clear about this for a long time. I think that the most effective way of preventing young people from choosing crime is to offer something better: a good school, a social service that is there if you get on the wrong foot, a functioning housing policy, first job and a society that stays together. This is about both resources and workshop. How do we get it to work between the different actors?
i-77e323bcc0311778-333	Madam President, I would like We now have a development which means that we are getting more and more policemen out in the areas. Now it is important to follow this up with initiatives in social services, for example, which can often be the weak link in some respects. One must have the tools and resources to take care, for example, of children and young people who are going wrong. The same applies to school – we have to make the necessary efforts there. It's possible to reverse the trend. I have seen that Gårdsten in Gothenburg is moving away from the list of vulnerable areas. I saw today that it may be so also for Vivalla in Örebro. It is therefore possible to reverse the trend.
i-77e323bcc0311778-335	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. The Swedish Democrats were not only the first to propose more educated police officers during the last parliamentary term. We also proposed early on a targeted salary investment to the Swedish police, partly to get more people to apply for the education and partly to get more police officers to stay in the profession. Now all parties agree that we need more police, but the problem is that training places are still gaping empty. A significant proportion of police officers are also still leaving the profession due to poor working conditions and poor wage developments. Fortunately, however, there are funds set aside for a targeted wage investment in the budget voted through last autumn by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Now that we have received a red-green government with Mikael Damberg as Minister for the Swedish Police, my question is, to which I would like an answer: Will there be a targeted wage investment for Sweden's police officers?
i-77e323bcc0311778-338	Madam President, I would like The simple and straightforward answer is that the money is already paid to the Police Department. The Parliament has made its decision, and money has been paid out. But I have not actually heard anyone here in Parliament say that we should have a different order than that the Police Authority should negotiate with the trade union organisations on salaries and conditions. That is also what is stated in the reservation that went through. I want to nuance the picture somewhat. We've doubled the number of students leaving police training. More are needed, so there will be a further expansion. Two new police training courses have just started, in Borås and Malmö. The police authorities also say that the alarming curve over the number of police who leave the profession after the major reorganisation has leveled out. That work must continue. The 73-point agreement reached by the government with the Center Party and the Liberals contains both 10 000 more police employees and better conditions for the police. These are important issues and must be an attractive profession.
i-77e323bcc0311778-341	Madam President, I would like It is not enough simply to hand out the money to the Police Authority and then expect a surplus to go to the government for other expenses. It is a question of politically directing money to police salaries, if they are to be used in the way it was intended. But it is clear, Madam President, that Damberg calculates that the money will burn inside and that the Police Authority will continue to be underbudgeted. There always seems to be something else that is more important for a social democrat to prioritise than the Swedish police.
i-77e323bcc0311778-343	Madam President, I would like I do not quite understand the last speech. The money is already paid out, so why should we give it a priority? They are paid out and will be used by the Police Authority, which will negotiate with the trade unions for better wages and conditions. I guess that's what Parliament decided. With all due respect, I think I've been Minister of the Interior for three weeks. If the police authorities are to handle the issue of wages and hold such negotiations, they should also be given the opportunity to do so. Otherwise, the parliament will have to take over the salary set for all the groups in the state, and I think that would be an unfortunate path.
i-77e323bcc0311778-346	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. A few weeks ago a wolf was shot with a deer change in a residential area in Tierp. The police were summoned, and the wolf was shot because of the danger it posed to the public. That's right. In Värmland Forshaga eleven wolves entered the farm of a farmer on another occasion. There, three children, one of whom is two years old, play in the yard. The forest property is crossed by three vargrevir, and the event is just one in a row. The police are not called because you feel that there is no idea. In the Stockholm area the wolf is pushed directly while in the countryside you should have higher tolerance. Where is the logic of this? That is a highly relevant question, and the answer is that there is no one. This action is creating ever greater gaps in the overconflict issue of the wolf's administration. Therefore, I would like to ask: how does the Minister for Rural Development think we should make people feel safe from the wolf in the countryside?
i-77e323bcc0311778-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Marléne Lund Kopparklint, for the question! It is difficult to speak in individual cases as a minister, and I do not think that this should be done either. However, we should of course have a balanced policy in all areas. The wolf issue is an issue that is extremely polarised in the debate today. As politicians responsible for these issues, and also as politicians in general, I think we have a great responsibility to try to keep a balanced tone in the debate. The issue has been dealt with from and until in the Riksdag and by the Government, and there are two important general political starting values in it. One is that it has been decided that we should have a favourable conservation status. The second is that consideration must also be given to those people who, as you mention, live and are expected to live in harmony with wolf.
i-77e323bcc0311778-352	Madam President, I would like I don't know if the minister has seen the map of Vargrevir in Värmland. You can have it later if you want. I still wonder what the minister should do because it looks so different in the country. What should the Minister do to make the inhabitants of Värmland feel safe about, for example, letting their children out so that they can play on the farm?
i-77e323bcc0311778-353	Madam President, I would like I would like to appeal once again that unnecessary fears are not raised about the dangers that exist. Nor should you be naive, no matter how you feel and feel about things that can actually be dangerous. A balanced debate is important, firstly. The two objectives I mentioned earlier must be weighed wisely. I think that we have politically landed in a rather balanced balance, which, however, must be followed all the time, with respect for individuals and industries that are affected.
i-77e323bcc0311778-355	I would like to remind Members and Ministers that we are speaking through the President. I also know the time is short, but keep an eye on the time markers.
i-77e323bcc0311778-358	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Universities and colleges are incredibly important for the regions where they are located. Former Social Democratic governments have expanded and invested in more colleges and universities in our country. However, we see that this affects a relatively limited geographical area around these universities, while the need for higher education is high throughout the country. It is also essential to resolve this issue if we are to meet current and future skills requirements, both in the business sector and in the public sector. Access to trained staff, but also equality and social development, is worse than we previously thought and can accept. So there is a geographical knowledge gap in our country.
i-77e323bcc0311778-361	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Kronståhl, for an important question. The role of higher education and research in the supply of skills in welfare and business is an extremely important focus for this government in its forthcoming term of office. Access to lifelong learning is important. You should have different educational paths, no matter where you are in life. Ensuring that we have higher education at universities and colleges throughout the country, but also that it is actually available to more, is important. Part of this, which we focus on and will work with more, is about more distance learning to get more people closer to higher education. You can also think of new combinations such as perhaps working at a school and studying an education in parallel.
i-77e323bcc0311778-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. A few weeks ago, the Minister has also received an investigation into how higher education institutions should be governed in the future. It contains proposals on the collaboration of higher education institutions with the surrounding society. At the same time, we see examples where several municipalities and different higher education institutions join forces and collaborate to increase access to higher education where distances to higher education institutions are somewhat too long. Does the Minister see an opportunity to change the governance of higher education institutions in a way that benefits the initiatives described?
i-77e323bcc0311778-365	Madam President, I would like That's right. It has just landed at my table a large and solid investigation into the governance and dimensioning of higher education and research. There are very exciting ideas and suggestions here that we now need to analyse and not least take in more views on in order to be able to return to the Riksdag with a wise and good proposal for a decision. But I myself see collaboration with the surrounding society as an important part of managing the skills supply in the welfare and business world better.
i-77e323bcc0311778-367	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. Some time ago, in the TV programme the crime of the Week saw prostitution moving into completely new arenas. On dating apps, which are available in tens of thousands of mobile phones, buyers are becoming increasingly insolent. With this, prostitution risks normalizing, and even more girls and women risk getting caught in prostitution. Sweden has legislation to be proud of. It is forbidden to buy sex in Sweden. The Swedish Sex Purchase Act moves the debt to the buyer instead of placing it on the seller. The buyer, who is usually a man, uses the vulnerable as a commodity. That is to say, sex purchases are still seen as a business deal, even though they are criminal. The fact that these buyers fearlessly and openly commit a criminal act by buying sex suggests that they are very sure not to get caught. It is estimated that around every tenth man in Sweden has ever bought sex. The cases notified are approximately 800. So the darker speech is huge.
i-77e323bcc0311778-372	Madam President, I would like Helena Vilhelmsson said that we have legislation to be proud of. I certainly agree with that. Sweden was the first country to implement legislation that criminalised the purchase of sexual services. It has played an enormous role, not only from the point of view of law enforcement, but also in the attitudes towards this sex trade. It is true that some of the traffic has moved online. It may have narrowed down in the streets, but you see it instead online. This means that police action can be followed up and has the opportunity to detect the sex trade. Like the police patrolling the streets, the police will also patrol online. The more efforts we make to expand the police organization, the more opportunities we have to tackle this type of trade.
i-77e323bcc0311778-374	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree that the police are a key to this. They do a lot to stop prostitution, but I think the resources are lacking. I hope that the forthcoming investment in the police in the January agreement will give the police the necessary conditions to stop the buyers from finding new arenas. Punishment when it comes to buying sex and prostitution units that can work throughout the country are some examples of measures that I and the Center Party want to highlight. And the companies that provide dating services must accept their responsibilities and prevent criminal acts. Policy must take the initiative here. Does the Attorney General agree with me?
i-77e323bcc0311778-376	Madam President, I would like Yes, absolutely! A number of measures have been implemented in recent years. On the one hand, the penalty for buying sex has been raised. It was done a few years ago. On the one hand, we have just received a new anti-trafficking legislation, which has broadened the possibilities of access to the gangs behind trafficking. It is, of course, a kind of modern form of slave trade, and to go after those who buy is one way of preventing this. I am prepared to take further action if necessary.
i-77e323bcc0311778-377	Madam President, I would like Last Tuesday, Brå released a new interview report on people who have experience of criminal settings and firearms violence. The people describe that gun violence is a means used to position oneself in the criminal environment and that there has been an escalation in what kind of violence must be used to get a good reputation. So something has happened that can be described as an inflation of gun violence in criminal environments. We also see how the statistics confirm this. In 2011, firearms were used for deadly violence in 17 cases. In 2018, firearms were used for deadly violence in as many as 45 cases. This is the highest figure ever when it comes to gun violence in Sweden. This kind of violence is found in criminal environments. In addition, it is often gang-related and drug-linked. My question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson is therefore: what does the Red-Green Government want to do to stop this development?
i-77e323bcc0311778-380	Madam President, I would like We have recently carried out a penalty in the case of serious weapons offences. It means that if you are found with weapons, you are now also arrested, almost automatically. If you leave home with a gun on you, the risk is that you won't be back for two years, because you'll be arrested pending trial. This has had a strong effect on the number of arrests. Five times as many were arrested for serious weapons offences in 2018 as in 2017. This means that individuals who could previously run around with guns in the city now leave the weapons at home. If they go out on the town with guns, there's a real risk that they'll be in the cage instead. That's how the ma has to work. The most criminally active individuals have to get off the street. But in parallel with this, you have to work with preventive efforts to ensure that the gangs do not recruit new recruits. That is exactly what we are now moving on to. It is about social, educational and other measures to break new recruitment to the gangs.
i-77e323bcc0311778-383	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that the Minister for Justice is really responding to what the Government has proposed in the coming term of office. What has been done so far is good, and it has often happened on the initiative of the Moderates, but more has to be done. The Moderates want to break development and crack gang crime. We want more gun crimes to be seen as a rape, that the penalty rebate for 18- to 20-year-olds should be removed, that we investigate the possibility of anonymous testimony in courts and that, like Denmark, we introduce a gang rule that doubles the penalties for gang-related crimes. What do you want?
i-77e323bcc0311778-385	Madam President, I would like I believe that we from the Department of Justice in the last parliamentary term presented 130 proposals. They all went through in parliament. I think we have tightened the penalties in some thirty cases. It is clear that the Moderates can try to take credit for at least some of them, and then I will have to offer it, but no one can claim that this government and the government that sat in the last legislature did not act. I'm ready to move on. We are prepared to proceed with further proposals, including to extend the possibilities of stopping weapons from entering Sweden. We want to make efforts, for example, on customs and border police in this respect. We have many other suggestions as well. There I think we may agree fundamentally.
i-77e323bcc0311778-388	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask you, Morgan Johansson, a question concerning children and young people who are expelled from the country against their will, at the risk of being subjected to child marriage, forced marriage or genital mutilation. I know that in many of these cases the children have signalled not just one official but several that they are concerned that this will happen. Only to the national support phone, which is located at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County, were 65 cases received in 2018 where it became known that children and young people were taken out of the country. Another factor to be expected is the risk of these children being deprived of their Swedish citizenship. Guardians, even if they retain their nationality, can print out a form via the Finnish Immigration Service's website. If the children are over 12 years of age, they must certainly sign it themselves. But as a result, their right to be a Swedish citizen ceases.
i-77e323bcc0311778-390	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by welcoming Juno Blom to Parliament. We have worked together and had some things to do with each other in your previous role as national coordinator against honour-related crimes. One of our most important issues during this parliamentary term will be to break up these structures and combat honour-related crime. This is an important point in the January agreement, and I am keen that the government should work closely with the Centre Party and the Liberals on these issues. We have a pretty good basis to base on. The Justice Council, Mari Heidenborg, conducted an investigation and produced its report in August. Among other things, she proposed tougher penalties for crimes with honorary motives and the possibility to issue travel bans and seized passports for those at risk of being forced to go abroad to be married away. However, some remains to be done, and the basis needs to be supplemented. Let's work together on this to crack this kind of crime.
i-77e323bcc0311778-394	Madam President, I would like Of course we should work together. The conflict areas that exist for these children in relation to the guardians must be the main areas of conflict between us. An issue that has been debated too little concerns those children who are at risk of being deprived of their Swedish citizenship. An adult who is convicted of a serious crime enjoys constitutional protection and can never be deprived of his or her citizenship, which is a good thing. However, the fact that it is still possible to deprive children of their citizenship easily is appalling.
i-77e323bcc0311778-396	Madam President, I would like We will certainly be able to do more in this part too, and of course we are prepared to do so. I look forward to working together here as well. As far as honour-related crime is concerned, we need to complete the dossier. These include better measures to be able to return persons who have left Sweden and their own crime title. I look forward to that in the agreement. Let us come back to the issue of citizenship.
i-77e323bcc0311778-400	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. The threat and hatred of farmers is totally unacceptable. The Green Party takes seriously the kind of crime in which militant activists threaten farmers and their families. We all know that the government is pushing for the strengthening of the police throughout the country, and that will make a positive contribution. Does the Government see the need to clarify the legislation, and can the whole legal chain be improved in order to reduce and eliminate serious threats to farmers?
i-77e323bcc0311778-404	Madam President, I would like One should of course be able to perform one's nutrition as a farmer without having to risk threats and violence. I think we all agree on that. However, in some startling recent cases, farmers have been subjected to threats, violence and harassment, and not only those but also their families, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. Of course, we follow these legal cases closely. We have also recently taken some steps. For example, we have tightened the penalties for illegal threats and made it easier to set up cameras if you risk trespassing and need to monitor your farm. We also have a dialogue with the LRF. I met with representatives of the LRF about a month ago, and this dialogue continues in order to see if anything further can be done by the legislator to tackle this type of crime.
i-77e323bcc0311778-407	Madam President, I would like In the Green Party, we are keen to give priority to animal welfare and animal health issues. Now crime is a little in the way of moving forward on these issues. Madam President, I would like I welcome the dialogue the government is conducting with the LRF and other actors, and so I ask Morgan Johansson : Is there more opportunity for collaboration and prevention?
i-77e323bcc0311778-409	Madam President, I would like There is certainly, and that is why such a dialogue is being conducted. The idea is that it will lead to something concrete, but if there are legislative changes, further governance by our authorities or other things, we will have to come back to. We are in a process and will of course tell you about the results of the talks when we can.
i-77e323bcc0311778-411	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Damberg, and it concerns paragraph 26 of the January agreement on strengthening and safeguarding private ownership of forests. As far as the Moderates are concerned, because that's exactly what we want. The forest is a basic industry in Sweden, and Sweden has perhaps the world's best forest industry thanks to all the talented farmers and foresters who have managed this for generations. Many forest owners have experienced for decades how ownership has weakened. Authorities put protection on the forest after biotopinventory, and the Forest Board annexed the forest to low compensation. According to the budget that M and KD received in December with the support of the Swedish Democrats, this will be stopped.
i-77e323bcc0311778-415	Madam President, I would like Forests are a hugely important natural resource for Sweden. It is one of Sweden's largest export assets, it is important for recreation and tourism and it has large and important environmental values. There are therefore several different interests that converge in our Swedish forest. It is also perhaps the greatest asset in the green transformation of our society, so we should be careful about our green gold. The January agreement states that the extended key biotope inventory will not be completed, in accordance with Parliament's decision. However, it is a question of giving money to protect forests, because otherwise the private forest owners will get caught. The unfortunate thing about the M- and KD budget is that it risks pulling the carpet away for the important work that many private forest owners are concerned about. I think it is important that we have a long-term approach to this which provides greater legal protection but also legality and security.
i-77e323bcc0311778-418	Madam President, I would like Then my hope is that you will regulate this in the regulations to Skogsstyrelsen and perhaps also to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. If you're going to continue protecting forest, I think you can put protection on the state forest instead of on private forest.
i-77e323bcc0311778-420	Madam President, I would like Sweden is partly bound by international conventions that require us to protect unique environments. The state-owned company Sveaskog is a forerunner and has great expectations of working with these issues. If private forest owners have land that is very valuable, it is reasonable that they receive compensation for it, and then there must be money for this in the state budget. Nothing is helped by the withdrawal of this money, because it creates even more uncertainty for private forest owners.
i-77e323bcc0311778-422	Madam President, I would like Swedish farmers produce the world's best food under perhaps the world's most stringent environmental and animal welfare rules. In 2018, Swedish farmers suffered from drought. Another contributing cause of Swedish farmers' suffering is the lack of profitability that has been built up for a long time because we have had a rather poor agricultural policy for 30, 40, 50 years. Almost two years ago, a food strategy was adopted with the overall goal of increasing Swedish food production. I therefore ask Minister Jennie Nilsson : What concrete tools do we want to give Swedish production agriculture to increase food production?
i-77e323bcc0311778-425	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. This is an important and priority issue, and just as the questioner very correctly described, the previous government developed a food strategy in broad cooperation and dialogue with the industry. My picture initially after three weeks at work is that it was very appreciated. It had a first action plan, and now it looks forward to and expects a second action plan. The work has begun, but it is at the beginning. As the questioner rightly says, I think the question of profitability is perhaps one of the most important things to work with and strengthen the conditions for political delivery. Then it will be about research, development, product development and export. We must, as well, strengthen the chain around those parts in order to have viable production that also benefits us here at home.
i-77e323bcc0311778-427	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. There are many good elements to the food strategy, it certainly does. But in concrete terms, how do we increase production? Farmers want long-term rules, they want lower taxes, they want less regulation and less administration. That's what makes them dare to invest in their production. Therefore, I ask the same question again: What concrete tools do we want to give to Sweden's farmers to increase production?
i-77e323bcc0311778-429	Madam President, I would like The action plan currently being worked on contains several proposals which are concrete in the way described by John Widegren. However, it does not solve all the problems, but the ambition is that we should continue to work in dialogue with the industry on exactly what it is you need. These are such things as having good conditions for product development, strengthening the conditions for exports, working with regulatory issues, ensuring that competence is provided in a good way and so on. All these things have to work for it to be good.
i-77e323bcc0311778-432	Madam President, I would like In Alexandra Pascalidous's book Mothers, we can read gripping testimony from mothers who stand fallen in hand when their sons are sucked up by criminal circles or drug addicts. Several of them have lost their son — some of the mothers even several sons — and received calls or visits from the police saying that their son was murdered, shot. Now I would like to ask Minister Damberg how the police work concretely with the issues to both counteract and prevent this violence. It is often described very anonymously. You can read about shootings and gang crime, but it is often about sons who are murdered or murdered. It's about mothers, friends, relatives and the environment. It is about grief, fear, insecurity and frustration, and I would therefore like to hear more about how the political authority's concrete work is done.
i-77e323bcc0311778-434	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. These are terrible stories that you read when you hear the mothers tell you about these messages. Police are making a big effort right now with a stronger local presence. It is not possible to just go in and out of these areas and believe that you are changing a culture and a question of security without being there. With the increased presence, new relationships are being built. It is about the hard things in connection with serious weapons crimes, which Morgan Johansson talked about before, namely to snatch the weapons and the most criminal elements from the areas, which means that the shootings can be reduced overall in society. It is also a question of prevention. The head of the Swedish police has submitted a list of measures in which he says that they are now moving forward their positions. He also says that they will not be able to do it without social services, schools and contributions from associations and others who gather together with the municipalities. We must work together in society to push this back. I'm fully convinced that's possible.
i-77e323bcc0311778-439	Madam President, I would like For Sweden's development, all forms of education and research are important. Sweden will be of high quality when it comes to skills provision at our university, and we will have a world-class research. New innovations lay the foundation for new jobs in Sweden. At the Department of Economics in Gothenburg there is high pressure on research positions. Five posts are deployed per year, with about a hundred applicants. Since the search pressure is so high, it means of course that you miss many researchers that could be brought in. There are also suspicions that you do not want to apply to the School of Economics again, because it is so difficult to get a place. So there is a risk that they will look elsewhere. Since Gothenburg is an innovation city, we have a great need for more researchers. My question to Minister Matilda Ernkrans is what she wants to do so that we can get more researchers to Gothenburg, especially to the School of Economics and the Department of Economics.
i-77e323bcc0311778-442	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström, for the question. I would like to reply that it is the task and task of each university to ensure that it is an attractive university that can attract students and researchers. However, I believe that in the solid investigation that has been carried out in terms of the governance and dimensioning of our higher education institutions, universities and research, there is a lot of excitement that we need to take on. I really look forward to having a broad and good discussion and debate on the proposals that are here, because there are exciting proposals, not least in order to also strengthen working conditions, job security and other things for our researchers in our universities and colleges. I personally think that is such a key issue.
i-77e323bcc0311778-445	Madam President, I would like Many entrepreneurs feel that the regulatory burden has increased in recent years. This is worrying given that it is about the competitiveness of companies and therefore our prosperity. The few know that the green industries are particularly hard hit. Right now, a study is being completed by a foundation called Agricultural Research. It shows, among other things, that the legal requirements that a farmer should keep track of have more than doubled in 20 years and that they currently amount to over 600 in addition to what other entrepreneurs have. With so much legal requirements, of course, there is a great deal of stress, not least given that even the slightest slippage can have quite a major financial impact on the individual entrepreneur. There is also a lot of red tape that is an obstacle to the development of businesses.
i-77e323bcc0311778-449	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for a very important question which I have partly dealt with in my role as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs during the last parliamentary term! The regulatory burden is constantly coming back as an obstacle that is perceived as an entrepreneur. First of all, I think you have to be aware that we rarely or never set up rules just to fuck with someone, but there are reasons why rules come into play. Often it is about protecting people's health, life, working environment or other things, and this must be respected. But you can't just give up on it. I think you have to work very systematically to make sure that all the rules and requirements that exist are actually relevant and that they are relevant over time. I think digitalisation is a key to ensuring that you can automate how to report and submit, that you don't have to do it over time and so on. In the context of the action programme, I also believe that we can look in dialogue at whether there are any rules that we need to deal specifically with in that process.
i-77e323bcc0311778-453	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister Mikael Damberg. I do not believe that the wave of hatred, intimidation and, unfortunately, pure criminal acts against farmers, farmers and entrepreneurs in the green industries has escaped anyone in this House. I think we are also all aware that there is a need for a great deal of effort and perhaps also for a change of legislation to tackle these crimes. Now it is Minister Mikael Damberg who is responsible for the judiciary. Former ministers have indicated that they will give a special mission to the police to try to deal with this type of crime collected. Does the Government intend to continue to do so, and if so, how quickly will it take responsibility for this?
i-77e323bcc0311778-457	Madam President, I would like I'm not responsible for the entire justice system. The Minister of Justice and I share responsibility for the judiciary. We are both committed to this issue. In one of my first meetings with the National Police Commissioner, I highlighted exactly this issue, because I wanted to know how the police work concretely and how they intend to organise their activities to take this seriously. Then I found out that the chief of police is taking this very seriously. In the Västra Götaland region, which is most exposed to crime in this regard, competence has now been gathered to support the rest of Sweden. There is close cooperation with the Security Service on these issues. I will therefore definitely follow up on this issue and ensure that there is a result. Historical experience has shown that when the police have framed a number of these individuals, this type of crime has also fallen considerably. It is therefore quite linked to a few individuals. We take this issue seriously, we will continue to follow it and we look forward to having a continued dialogue on it, for this will not happen in Sweden.
i-77e323bcc0311778-462	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Rural Affairs. Among others, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the County Administrative Board and the Swedish Forest Board receive a significant reduction in the budget as the SD-supported M-KD budget went through in the Riksdag. As a social democrat, I deeply regret that. But it has direct consequences, which means that forest owners who have entered into contracts will be without compensation. This week we have received reports that the agreement made by Jenny Karlsson from Roslagen, which means 600 000 SEK in compensation, has been paused. You can understand Jenny's desperate. The four-party agreement on the many parts of the January agreement applies in many ways to forests. It is gratifying that major investments in forests and the bioeconomy are announced.
i-77e323bcc0311778-466	Madam President, I would like I thank Isak From for the question. This is very unfortunate. It is a very clear result of what happens when major budgetary decisions are taken which are not drawn up by the government and which are not consistent. Then it becomes really troubling for people in their everyday lives. I am very pleased with the weight that I feel my portfolio has received in relation to the 73-point programme that underpins the government. We have been clear both that property rights issues should be strengthened and that compensation should be reasonable in cases where, for various reasons, land cannot be used as intended. It will be a priority in this context to take a concerted approach to the whole forest policy where this has a particular weight.
i-77e323bcc0311778-468	Madam President, I would like Many people without asylum reasons abuse our asylum system to stay during the investigation period and then work black or commit crimes. One way of delaying this process is to refuse to cooperate with the asylum investigation. A typical example of this is Rakhmat Akilov. In order to resolve such cases, there is a rule on so-called implicit withdrawal in the EU's asylum law, which allows the host country to suspend the process and return applicants who do not cooperate, thereby saving time, money and, in some cases, human life. However, Sweden has chosen not to transpose this rule into our national legislation.
i-77e323bcc0311778-470	Madam President, I would like This is more a symbolic issue than a real one, because if you do not cooperate in your asylum process, there is a very great risk of being rejected. And if you get a rejection, you'll be sent home. So simple is the order. I see the questioner is shaking his head. But it is natural in that way that you have your own interest in working with the person who investigates whether to get asylum in Sweden. If you don't, you run the risk of being rejected. As I mentioned earlier, we have a fairly high rate of return in terms of the number of people leaving Sweden to go back to their home countries, for example after they have been rejected. Over the last five years, we are talking about over 70 000 people, about 1 000 per month. I have full confidence in the order we have now. It works the way it's supposed to.
i-77e323bcc0311778-474	Madam President, I would like For a week you could read in Örnsköldsviks Allehanda about a couple who live in an apartment in a small town called Middlesel in northern Västernorrland, my own constituency. This couple was exposed to a very frightening and unpleasant event. Two people kicked and struck for an hour on several occasions on this couple's apartment door, and the couple thought that the apartment door would break and cave. Of course, they were afraid of their lives. But when they called the police, they were told that there was no patrol to send. I therefore wonder what the Minister of Justice is going to do to ensure that such events cannot take place anywhere in Sweden, either in the Middle East or anywhere else.
i-77e323bcc0311778-476	Madam President, I would like This is not as much a legislative issue as a police question, and so I will answer the question. It is reasonable that people who fear that someone is about to break into their apartment and call the police should feel that it works. Today, it is in this way that the police organisation that we have is not of the scope and does not have the power that we in this House think should be the case. Today, the police are being forced into unreasonable balances, weighing up various crimes and calling out against each other, and there is not enough. My simple answer to this question, which will not simply be, is that we must allow the police organization to grow properly with 10 000 more police workers over the next few years. Then we can have a better police presence throughout the country and not only in particularly vulnerable areas, so that, for example, cancellation times can be reduced by the presence of the police. It is the work and the conditioning that I think this Parliament and this government must work for.
i-77e323bcc0311778-480	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by mentioning that we are in favour of all our reservations, but that we are only in favour of reservations 12 and 16 for time to come. Madam President, I would like Much has happened since the first cycle was constructed in the 1600s. Only in the 19th century did the cycle break through, and not until a bit into the 20th century did it become man's property. In those days it was poor for many families, and the bike became a great asset because you could travel considerably further than on foot. Car was, as you know, few granted, so the bike meant a great freedom for allmogen. It does that for many to this day, especially for those who do not have a driving licence but are still able to get to their daily trade, to the hairdresser and to the nearest bus or train station. Cycling culture varies greatly in the world. I have been told by a Dutch colleague that schoolchildren in the Netherlands often cycle in groups, not infrequently over a mile, to their school. It may be a little easier in such a flat country with mild winters, but there is also a well-developed bicycle infrastructure. In Copenhagen, where you as a actor often is, it is also a completely different cycle culture than in Sweden and very many bikes. It is also expensive to buy and own a car in Denmark. In Sweden, however, it is still the car that provides freedom for many, and for even more people the car is an absolute necessity to make everyday life work. You pick up and leave children at daycare, drive to sports activities, commute to work or go shopping at the department store. In the urban space there is often competition between pedestrians, cyclists, buses and cars for space. In some cities, trams are also to be accommodated on the streets. This conflict, we believe, must be resolved, for the good of all modes of transport, and compromises are necessary. However, when we start changing existing infrastructure, especially in cities with old urban planning, it is not as easy. Here we believe that great consideration must also be given to car and bus traffic so that we do not get blocked streets and long traffic queues. This is ultimately a municipal issue, but with the urban environment agreement many municipalities want to make it difficult for motorists. We are critical of this on the part of the Swedish Democrats. Sanctuary and balance must be ensured when planning for the development of bicycle infrastructure. When it comes to connecting cranes with the cities, we welcome the fact that more resources are being spent on creating good cycling connections and on creating efficient and safe cycling paths. However, rhymes and reason must prevail. In my municipality of residence, cycle paths have been built along national roads, and virtually no one – or very few – uses these cycle paths. It is quite expensive to build cycle tracks, and therefore it is of the utmost importance that there is a sufficient basis to make use of an upcoming cycle path. It is also important that the winter road maintenance of the cycle tracks is managed, so that you can cycle even in the winter. We all know how difficult it is to cycle in two decimetres of snow, which may not be so common in Skåne but the more common uphill the country. Madam President, I would like The upward trend of more people killed and severely injured in bicycle accidents must be broken. It should be easy to understand traffic rules, but when it comes to the rules for bicycle passages and crossings, we see that different rules unfortunately point to the opposite. There are a lot of cyclists who don't know that motorists should leave cyclists priority at bike crossings but that cyclists should leave motorists preference at a bike pass. In accordance with reservation 12, we want the regulatory framework to be reviewed and the rules harmonised so that they are equally obedient. For example, it may be appropriate for cyclists to give preference to motorists in both cases, since cyclists are a group of vulnerable road users. Regardless of which group to give priority, this must be aligned in order to increase safety and avoid misunderstandings – misunderstandings that in the worst case may have fatal or disabling outcomes. Finally, Madam President, I would like to distance myself firmly from motion 2756 by Mrs Tovatt of the Green Party on allowing cyclists to cycle towards one-way and giving cyclists the legal opportunity to cycle towards red light at the right turn. This will lead to more accidents, not fewer. Should it be allowed to ride a bike in red at the right turn, it increases not only the risk of the inattentive being hit by a motor vehicle but also the risk of riding on a pedestrian crossing the road at the same time. The writer behind this exercise could not possibly have done a risk analysis. Madam President, I would like We need fewer, not more, bicycle accidents.
i-77e323bcc0311778-490	Madam President, I would like It is not really surprising that the Swedish Democrats turn out to be a bike-unfriendly party that does not give priority to the accessibility and safety of cyclists. It is said that the urban environment agreement is wrong, that it only benefits them in the cities and that it sets different modes of transport against each other. However, the Urban Environment Agreement has meant that cities have actually been able to invest in necessary investments that improve accessibility for several different modes of transport. I would therefore like to emphasise very strongly that the urban environment agreement has an important role to play in the transition to a more sustainable transport system. I also note that Mr Jönsson, from the Swedish Democrats, is evil about my colleague Lorentz Tovatt's motion on changes to bicycle rules, and not least the possibility for cyclists to cycle towards one-way. This is something that has already been carried out in a variety of municipalities in Sweden and is also being tested here in Stockholm. In the report we note that this is possible with the rules already in place in Sweden and that it obviously works very well in many places. There are streets where it is perfectly natural for a cyclist to cycle in both directions, although it is not admitted that car traffic uses both directions. This is my contribution to this House, Madam President.
i-77e323bcc0311778-494	Madam President, I would like Member Emma Berginger believes that the Swedish Democrats are a bike-friendly party, but nothing could be more wrong. We are a bike-friendly party that protects the lives of cyclists and road safety – contrary to what the Green Party does. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats, unlike the Green Party, are also a car-friendly party. It should of course be perfectly possible to drive your vehicle even inside the city without creating traffic chaos. Emma Berginger does not see this at all. Emma Berginger and the Green Party do not at all see the problems of turning off the street after the street for bus files or of building bike paths. As far as the urban environment agreement is concerned, we believe that these are municipal matters to be resolved through the municipal tax and municipal decisions.
i-77e323bcc0311778-497	Madam President, I would like Enough because municipal infrastructure is primarily a municipal matter, but we also know that the needs and resources of municipalities do not always match each other. Municipalities have a lot of responsibilities, such as school, care for the elderly and other priority issues. Many municipalities also have an old infrastructure built with the car as the norm. Therefore, there is a great need among municipalities to get state co-financing in order for them to prioritise the necessary transitions we need to make in order to have a more sustainable transport system. This includes both investments in the expansion of bicycle routes and investments in, for example, bus files, as mentioned in the speech. I would also like to mention that, in order to avoid the traffic chaos Patrik Jönsson is afraid of, the different modes of transport need to be separated as much as possible. This is precisely what urban contract money is used for. It is also a question of creating more efficient transport systems. By investing in public transport, for example, there is an opportunity to avoid traffic jams and avoid blocked roads. We know that we transport more people on less surface if we use bus and bicycle traffic optimally. I note that Patrik Jönsson is therefore critical of both the urban environment agreement and regulatory changes and that the honourable Member is also critical of investing in cycling routes in rural areas.
i-77e323bcc0311778-501	Madam President, I would like Just because you repeat a lie doesn't make it a truth. Mr Berginger says that we do not want to invest in bicycle paths. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats are in favour of this, and we are also in favour of reviewing the possibility of building cycle paths other than along existing roads. It is obvious that we should make it easier for people to cycle. Nevertheless, Mrs Berginger completely ignores the fact that it must work in a city also for bus and car traffic. There are examples in the Green Party's policy that are incredibly devoid of reality. One is all-green, which will shut down the cities. Another example is that cyclists would be allowed to cycle to one-way. Surely it does not take much thought to understand that one would increase the risk tremendously if one were to allow bicycles to travel towards vehicle traffic on narrow streets. Speaking of the proposal to let cyclists ride in red at the right turn, the risk of someone walking out and getting hit is imminent. The risk of not paying enough attention and missing a car is also imminent. Then we will see more bicycle accidents, and that cannot in any way benefit cycling in Sweden.
i-77e323bcc0311778-504	Madam President, I would like I am not going to take four minutes, I am just going to correct myself, because I have had my speech before. I would also like to thank you for being able to say a corrigendum. I happened to be in favour of reservation 17, but I would of course be in favour of reservation 18 in the report and nothing else. That's just what I wanted to say.
i-77e323bcc0311778-506	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's report 3 on fisheries policy. We Moderates, of course, stand up for all our reservations in the report, but for time-winning, I only ask for the approval of reservation 10. Fish is a common resource that does not comply with national boundaries. The EU fishing industry is the fourth largest in the world and supplies almost 6.5 million tonnes of fish each year. Fishing and its processing industry employ 350 000 people. As a result, fishing is a large and important industry but also a strong and essential part of the food chain. Fishing needs long-term rules of play and multi-annual management plans. They are guarantors of a functioning industry but also important puzzle pieces for there to be fish left in the oceans. In addition, the development of management plans will help to lift the decline in stocks. At the same time as fishing and aquaculture in the EU should be sustainable in the long term, it should be sustainable in environmental, economic and social terms. It is therefore important that all Member States respect the common fisheries policy. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be the driving force in the EU for the reform of the third country agreements. We Moderates are fundamentally against these and prefer to phase out existing subsidies in the long term because we question whether the agreements are sustainable and live up to the set criteria. Swedish fishing, which in many ways works well, needs to be developed in order to deliver good food and more jobs in the future as well. In the food strategy, Sweden has clearly stated that we should increase our food production, and fishing in the coastal country can be an excellent opportunity for this. However, for Swedish fisheries to thrive, the policy must avoid setting too many special requirements and rules against competing countries. Madam President, I would like Specific rules and aggravation of running companies are recurring concerns for Swedish traders. In the long run, these concerns have a negative impact on both climate and the environment, as Swedish industries and producers are almost always examples in their environmental and climate work. Good work is precisely what is needed to halt the increasingly worrying development of cod in the Baltic Sea. Sweden has long coastlines, and that is where there is the most development potential for Swedish fishing. In this way we can develop the local business community. In addition, more jobs can be created and the archipelago environment developed. However, the potential for developing coastal fishing is threatened by the strong strains of seals and cormorants that currently exist in the coastal landscape. These animals not only eat fish but also destroy fishing gear for large sums of money each year. Seats and cormorants can only be handled with an increased hunt. Another problem is the inertia of fishing licences and the possibility of implementing generational shifts with them. This urgently needs to be addressed in order to give new generations of fishermen confidence and confidence in the future. This applies not least to the Swedish eel fishermen, who must have this opportunity for generational change in order for their nutrition to survive. You may think what you want about Swedish eel fishing, but it is an extremely important industry that contributes cultural values and is a tourist attraction for south-eastern Sweden. Furthermore, the limited fishing we are talking about is not something that affects the populations, but the eels have their greatest growth limitations in seal and cormorant troubles, turbines and environmental toxins. Further regulatory difficulties causing concern in the development of fisheries represent the poor possibility of handing over fishing rights. This is something that needs to be dealt with urgently so that Swedish fishing does not suffer against its competitors. Madam President, I would like Let me also briefly mention a species we need to give more attention. The Baltic cod, i.e. cod living in the eastern stock, has several major challenges. In addition to intensive fishing from Germany, Poland and Denmark, there are biological disturbances that we need to take seriously. One of them is that cod seems to have completely stopped growing. Older cod look like small cod, and small cod look like herring. This is problematic, not just because it means that fishermen need to take up more and more fish and work harder and harder to get into the quota ceiling. If the cod in the eastern stock dies out, it cannot be replaced by implantation. This is a very serious situation. Madam President, I would like This report contains an announcement, and I am pleased that the committee has met with part of our committee motion. In short, this means stepping up work to simplify rules and reduce the administrative burden on fisheries. Finally, Madam President, I have a positive feeling. We must believe that the fishing industry will continue to flourish as a industry. Fishing shall deliver environmentally and economically sustainable food and jobs. However, well-ordered rules and plans are needed for the whole of the EU, because fisheries are the responsibility and opportunities of the whole of the EU.
i-77e323bcc0311778-522	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations. However, for time-winning – as it says – I only call for reservation 3, which concerns horizontal promotion measures for small-scale coastal fishing, and reservation 17, which concerns bottom trawling. For the Swedish Democrats, fishing has several fundamentally important aspects. Fishing is an important part of the Swedish self-sufficiency of food. Food from the sea is simply healthy food, and it is our view that we should primarily use Swedish resources. Fishing represents an economic value in the billion-dollar order. Fishing employs about a thousand people in the first line and several thousand in the processing chain. Fishing is also part of our cultural heritage. Catches of fish and shellfish from our long coast and from lakes, rivers and rivers are an inalienable part of our Swedish cultural heritage. For the Swedish Democrats, it is also an ideological issue. Natural resources shall be managed. They should be used but not over-used. This applies to fishing to at least the same extent as it applies to our game trunks or to the forest itself. How much do we get to fish? It is regulated by regional, intergovernmental agreements. What quotas we are ultimately allocated is not something we decide on in this House, but it is determined by the Council of Ministers on the basis of the Research Council. According to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, Sweden uses approximately 70 per cent of its fishing quotas. At the same time, we import fish from all the oceans of the world. We have nothing against imports in themselves – absolutely not – but it is a bit sad that Swedish school children eat hoki fillet from the South China Sea when our own fishing quotas remain untapped in the oceans. Why is that? Yeah, that's the question. That is because we have not achieved enough a favourable business environment for the Swedish fishing industry. So we have a lesson to do here. Swedish fishing is a sustainable fishing. It is carefully regulated and controlled. We can therefore safely buy Swedish caught fish in confidence that it is delivered from sustainable stocks. It is probably good if consumers get the signal from us politicians that Swedish fish are good food. It is therefore important that Swedish fishermen are not exposed to competitive disadvantages within the EU's internal market. It is not only fishermen and consumers who are interested in fish. Even seals and cormorants feed on fish. Seals also tend to transfer parasites to fish. The number of seals along the Swedish Baltic Sea coast has increased sharply since the turn of the millennium. We in the Swedish Democrats have long said that seal must be managed harder. The situation we are in now is difficult to deal with, even with new legislation. Rather, it serves as an illustrative example of undesirable consequences when wild game stocks are not managed responsibly. International conventions now stand in the way of, in particular, trade in seal products. It is high time that Sweden took a holistic approach to this. In addition to the seal, the cormorant is a predator who consumes considerable amounts of cod. It is also common for cormorants to harm cod and render it unusable on the market without eating it – a problem for fisheries in general and coastal fisheries in particular. Sport fishing and tourism are also affected. Among the things is that the kind of cormorant that is most common in Sweden is not part of our natural fauna. It is imported from China. Its impact on the ecosystem – and it not only eats cod – is described by biologists as negative. And the stock is steadily increasing. According to the County Administrative Board, in 2016 there were over 30 000 cormorants only in the Stockholm archipelago. They also cause damage to forests and have smelly excrement that destroys everything in their way on islands and rocks. All green vegetation disappears where they settle. It can almost be described as a pest, simply, and a direct threat to our Swedish living archipelagos. The Swedish Democrats are therefore responsible for regulated fishing – something else is not on the map. And we are no stranger to adjusting regulations in both directions to ensure long-term sustainable stocks or to make better use of existing stocks. Here flexibility and political leadership are needed. At the same time, we must pursue a policy that preserves a viable fishing industry in the long term. Yes, new and more selective tools can be developed. Yes, temporary fishing stops can be introduced on eel, for example, when the situation so requires. And we see, of course, that the situation of cod in the Baltic Sea is worrying, particularly as regards the eastern stock. The quotas will then also be adjusted accordingly. We should not delete entire industries from dogmatic positions. We are concerned about the campaign against trawling. The Swedish Democrats welcome the fact that some areas fish selectively with hooks, and we would like it to develop. In the real world, however, trawls are used to carry out effective fishing. If we ban trawling or regulate it too hard, Swedish fishermen will be run bankrupt, with increased imports from the international market as a result. This also touches an ideological position. Sweden is not a nature reserve, an untouched virgin wilderness that is primarily for tourists and photographers. Of course, some areas should be completely protected – we have no problem with that. However, our ideological position is that natural resources – whether wild, forest or fish – should be exploited. In this way, society retains its contact with nature. Knowledge is maintained and resources are taken into account.
i-77e323bcc0311778-540	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 and to mention at the beginning of the debate that, of course, we in the Center Party have many other elements in our motion. However, as quite a lot falls under the so-called January agreement, there are elements that we mention further in our particular opinion. Sweden is surrounded by the blue. Our watercourses, lakes and seas are an amazing part of Swedish nature, but it is also a rich pantry for an increasing food supply and food industry. This is, of course, a motion for a resolution by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture on fisheries policy. In a few minutes, I would like to share with the Center Party's view of the challenges that we see, but also the solutions that exist to promote more sustainable fishing. In Sweden everyone should be able to live and realize their dreams, no matter where in the country they live. The basis for development throughout the country is good conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises that create jobs. We have long coastlines, rivers and lakes. I who come from Västra Götaland have the privilege to see fishing in the inland waters and lakes but also in our two large lakes Vänern and Vättern and along the entire Bohuslän coast. And I can imagine that many residents today offer their loved ones shrimps, not least because it's Valentine's Day. There are great opportunities here, but also great challenges, not least for small-scale fishing and sustainable aquaculture. From an employment perspective, this has a great potential for jobs in Swedish rural areas and small-town Sweden in terms of cultivation and production but also at the processing stage. We have many keen fishermen who diversify their activities in different ways, be it with a smokehouse or a restaurant, in order to create greater sustainability for their businesses. But small-scale archipelago fishing is now under threat. Some of the problems lie in difficulties with rules on work tools, profitability and cumbersome bureaucracy. The Center Party pushed on on these issues in the alliance government and does not tire out now in opposition of working towards simpler rules, smoother state processes, moreover much smoother, and that the authorities should ensure that they have good dialogues with the industry through their servants. The food strategy adopted indicates that food production in Sweden will increase. It must also apply to fishing, not least small-scale fishing. Madam President, I would like In my speech, I would like to highlight three areas in particular in order to develop the Swedish fishing industry. It is about aquaculture, small-scale coastal fishing, but also about international fishing and how it can be more sustainable. Let me start with aquaculture. We see trials with land-based fish farms, which have great potential to grow in Sweden. There are companies that are already in operation, but there are also development projects of various kinds. There are exciting businesses where sustainability is in focus with an environmentally friendly production thinking in the form of, for example, closed loops. However, only the authorisation process for aquaculture itself takes up to six years, and the permit is then valid only for four years. That is why it is important that we give the signal from Parliament that it cannot continue like this. The environmental code must be updated to enable new crops to start up within a reasonable time, develop and become part of the future sustainable aquaculture, also in order to become part of the increased food production. The conditions for becoming internationally competitive need to be provided here, and new innovations need to be given the chance to develop without too tough management. These companies and entrepreneurs want nothing more than to get the chance to start their business, develop and make it profitable and contribute to both production and processing. Madam President, I would like The second point concerns small-scale and coastal fishing. The number of fishermen is falling, and too many do not see fishing as a future sector where you can actually live your dream as a fisherman. There are major problems with profitability, which is why concrete efforts and solutions are needed to improve fisheries. The Center Party wants to strengthen the competitiveness of the fishing industry with a national fisheries policy programme so that coastal and small-scale fishing can develop. Small-scale fisheries find it difficult to stand up to the large-scale. A management model, implemented by the relevant authorities, which is more directing towards more local landings of fish, leaves room for local and regional actors to ensure that fishing in coastal communities becomes part of the activities that help to build these communities stronger. The committee was visited a few weeks ago by the Director-General of the Agency for Marine and Water Management. The final message and the final picture of the presentation were about the way in which they do societal benefits in 2019. These are renewable energy, marine protected areas, water resource management and international development work. However, sustainable regional growth is also being promoted here, with an emphasis on our coastal communities as a top priority. It was argued that more concerted action on our coasts is needed, and then more policies will also come in, such as beach protection, housing, infrastructure and, not least, the provision of skills. I have the privilege of living close to the West Swedish coast. There you can see how the protected areas are successfully managed. I would like to mention Kosterhavet National Park, where protected areas are well protected, but where farming and fishing are also an important part of shaping a future for both the tourism industry and food supply. Finally, Madam President, I would also like to say something about international sustainable fishing. International fisheries policy and the common fisheries policy in the EU also govern us. Water is cross-border and therefore cooperation is a prerequisite for good fisheries management. Global overfishing is a major problem. Sweden therefore needs to push for more sustainable fishing globally, combat depletion and introduce increased protection of marine species. The Alliance government was a driving force when, during its last term of office, the EU adopted a more sustainable fisheries policy and a European discard ban. It is time to ensure that all EU countries follow this. Otherwise, it means that Swedish fishermen do not compete on the same terms as fishermen in other Member States. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by thanking all the committed professionals who are around our country, along our coasts, our watercourses and around our lakes for being in touch with this debate. They have talked about concerns about some of the proposals. They have also provided a knowledge base. In reality and in different companies you face the problems that exist. Then they can seriously influence the policies that we need to pursue in order for small-scale fisheries, aquaculture and global international fisheries to grow ever stronger. It is important that food production can increase both in the open and in different types of crops.
i-77e323bcc0311778-565	Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party are behind all our reservations, but for time to come, I only call for our reservation No 26 on a ban on eel fishing. The state of the sea is serious. Sweden's overall goal is for our marine areas to achieve a good environmental state, where organisms in the sea are prosperous and resources are used sustainably. Several of our environmental quality objectives also serve as important tools for achieving this goal for our marine environment. However, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Sweden will not reach any of these targets by 2020. The Environmental Protection Agency also says that only 18 percent of the water along the coasts reaches the least good ecological status, a frighteningly low figure. What we do and have long done is far too little. One of the measures the Left Party wants to see is a stop to cod fishing in the Baltic Sea. We want that because we see that the situation of cod is acute. In 30 years, 90% of the stock has disappeared. In the eastern population, the cod have become both smaller and leaner. Measurements show that cod that have lived in the Baltic Sea for two years have not grown more than a few centimetres; it should be a few decimetres. Moreover, cod has not been found that can be shown to be more than 5 years old. They can actually be up to 15 years old. The cod stock is affected by a number of negative environmental factors, such as eutrophication and chemicals, but also by the fishing pressure. In 1984 more than 400 000 tonnes of cod were caught in the Baltic Sea. For 2019, the EU recommendation became a catch of 24 000 tonnes, a fraction of what we once saw. Cods are not even close to their full capacity, and we only get a fraction of the natural resource that cod in the Baltic Sea could be. That is why the Left Party wants to see a stop to cod fishing in the Baltic Sea. It is we who are responsible for the situation, and that is why it is also we who are going to solve it. Fishing is important for Sweden. Therefore, it is also important that we take care of the water and the species that exist. Without a living sea, we will soon have neither water to fish in nor fish to fish. That is why it is also important to talk about fishing methods. Bottom trawling is a major threat to sensitive, often relatively unknown, marine environments and ecosystems. Most species living in deep seas have a slow growth and reproduction rate, which means that it takes very long before the amount of fish taken up can be replaced. Bottom trawling affects the environment in several ways, both through physical impacts on habitats and in the form of biological impacts by changing species compositions. The Government's agreement shows that it wants to reduce bottom trawling in sensitive areas in Sweden and in the EU and to put a stop to bottom trawling in protected areas. The Left Party believes that these are important measures, but that is not enough. Instead, we want to see a ban on bottom trawling in all EU waters. Another species that lives on borrowed time is the eel. In Sweden the eel is classified as being under immediate threat. Since the 1950s, more than 99% of the stocks of glass eels along Europe's coasts have disappeared. It is therefore important that eel fishing is regulated vigorously. In Sweden, the eel plan has led to a ban on recreational fishing of eel and limited professional fishing. However, directed fishing for eel is still carried out in Swedish waters and fresh water. In addition to the legal fishing of eel, illegal fishing is also carried out. As long as there is, it will be very difficult to control the sale of illegal eel. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) advises to introduce a total stop for eel fishing as soon as possible. We also pursued this approach when the issue was last raised in committee in the run-up to the decision on eel fishing in the EU. Instead, the result was a three - month stop — three months that each country can put at any time. It is not difficult to imagine that several countries, unfortunately including Sweden, will put the stop to fishing during a period when it will have a low impact on fishing and a low impact on the eel's chances of recovery. In Sweden, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has the task of developing a plan to implement the EU decision on a halt to fishing. To this mission, the Left Party would like to add a target for the reduction of eel fishing during the current period. In this way, it could have a real effect rather than be a cosmetic measure to boast. Sweden has reached the intermediate target for marine areas and is now protecting at least 10 per cent of its areas. However, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says in its latest monitoring report that we will not achieve the goal of quality aspects. It is about ecologically representative and coherent areas in a functional network of protected areas. Marine site protection is important for preserving biodiversity and habitats. It reduces environmental pressures such as physical disturbances and harmful fishing practices. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, maintaining already existing good environments is usually more cost-effective than retrofitting those that have been adversely affected. It is a success that Sweden has reached at least 10%. At the same time, we can compare with Denmark, where equivalent protection amounts to 20%, or with Germany, where it amounts to 40%. Then we see that we still have some work to do. Research suggests that the target should be somewhere there, between 20 and 30 percent, for each habitat. In its evaluation, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency asked for more instruments and increased financial resources in order to have a chance to reach the goals of the sea in balance and the living coast and archipelago. In this work, the Left Party also calls for long-term strategies and a goal to increase the protection of important marine environments, which does not appear to be on the agenda. World biodiversity is under threat. From 1970, the earth has lost two thirds of the population of wild vertebrates. More than half of the fish, birds, mammals, amphibians and reptiles have disappeared. It is certainly the worst for freshwater animals such as fish and amphibians. They've gone down by as much as 81 percent. This rapid loss of biodiversity is not only a disaster for the species affected; it is also a disaster for us. We depend on a living planet. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also highlights this in its in-depth evaluation and writes that Sweden should work to ensure that the EU's fisheries and agricultural policy is more used to achieve the objectives of EU environmental policy and that Sweden should speed up the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity. The Left Party intends to continue to fight for biodiversity, for a world of living lakes, a sea in balance, a coast and a teeming wetland landscape. Today, on Facebook, pictures of children's eyes circulate. With this, the campaign wants to draw attention to the fact that children see us. They see that we are doing nothing, and they force us to look them in the eye and say that we are not doing enough. They're forcing us to acknowledge our shortcomings. When my children grow up, I want to be able to look them in the eye and say that I did everything in my power so that together we could stop the development and reverse the trend. The children see us, and they deserve to see something much better.
i-77e323bcc0311778-583	Madam President, I would like I agree with the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only support reservation No 3. Fishing is one of our basic industries. It is an important nutrition that throughout mankind has provided people with proteins and other nutrients and thus contributed to good health. Fisheries policy is not as old as the art of fishing. Everyone, including fishermen, agrees that sustainable, well-managed and developed fisheries are in everyone's interest, not least in the interests of the country. Unfortunately, there are a number of worrying clouds towering on the horizon. This applies, among other things, to the prohibition of the most important form of catch on our coasts, namely bottom trawling. This also applies to camera surveillance of those working on board. Often governments and authorities have unilaterally based their decisions on fisheries on research, without any real dialogue with fishermen. This has been the case despite the fact that it is the fishermen who have the best knowledge of how fishing works in the depths of the sea. For decades Norway has had a system in which some ships interact with research. It has created trust between research, management and the fisherman. The former rural minister, Eskil Erlandsson, answered a question in this House that he relied entirely on research into professional fishing. Isabella Lövin, with her book Silent Sea, became a symbol of the aggressive tone against professional fishing that still persists with some activists. The Prime Minister has also joined this tone. In the Government Declaration, the Prime Minister said: a strengthening of control to stop illegal fishing. What other profession hears such negative expressions about its activities in a government declaration? If so, why not mention that the control of illegal craftsmen is being strengthened or that the control of illegal farmers is being strengthened? It could also apply to hunters or any other professional category. It only shows how the Green Party has managed to implement its views in the Social Democrats. This is also stated in the 73-point programme, which is also endorsed by liberals and center parties. The fact that the Green Party and the Left Party are against fishermen is nothing new. The fact that the Social Democrats have decided at their Congress to ban bottom trawling and promote a ban throughout the EU is also known. But the fact that the Center Party and the Liberals are joining the crowd is, to say the least, amazing. There was a time when Social Democrats stood up for professional fishing in this House, but we no longer hear those voices. Liberals have been fighting for fishing, but these voices have also been silenced in this House. Now it must be said that the proposals I have mentioned, on bottom trawling and camera monitoring, which are thus contained in various motions in the report, are rejected by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. This time, therefore, it does not look like it will be decided on in this House. But they will come back as proposals from the government, so this is a warning and hopefully a clarification of what happens if the proposals are implemented. Madam President, I would like The most serious is the proposal for a general ban on bottom trawling in protected areas, despite the fact that trawling is already prohibited in protected areas where it should not be. The protected areas where it is considered perfectly okay to fish, which are totally really large areas, are also important fishing spots. There is therefore no reason for further bans because there is already effective protection. There is also no general ban on bottom trawling in the EU. In addition, there are promising attempts with alternative trawlers that should not touch the bottom at bottom trawling. The ships that have tested the new technology are very satisfied. In many places new technologies are being developed. It doesn't have to take long because it's already during testing with good results. Sweden is at the forefront of selective trawls and has an ethical thinking, unlike in some other European countries, such as Holland, where there is a method of trawling that sends electric shocks into the water to get fish along the bottom to swim up and thus get caught in the trawl. The professional fishing strategy clearly states that coastal fishing should be strengthened. If there is a ban on trawling in protected areas, where fishing with trawl is considered acceptable today, not least the shrimp trawling, which is so important for coastal fishing, will be severely affected. Other demersal species, such as cod, haddock, plaice, saithe and crawfish, will also be severely affected. A ban on bottom trawling would mean the end of Swedish demersal fishing. It would be a disaster for fisheries, but also for fish trade and the market. For example, all shrimp and 70-75 percent of all crawfish are taken up with bottom trawls. If the ban on bottom trawling is adopted, the food strategy and the objective of a living coast and archipelago are not right, to name but two things. The risk is that our fishing opportunities will be fished less selectively and less gently by other countries' fishermen who take over without the same ethical thinking that Swedish fishermen have. In addition, leading researchers at SLU, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, say that it is not possible to replace trawling with any other fishing method. We are fishing today in the same places that had already been trawled in 1866 with good results. Madam President, I would like The second proposal concerns camera surveillance. This is what the agreement that the Centre Party and the Liberals support together with the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party says: ..................................................... Camera monitoring is a completely unnecessary and offensive method of controlling fishermen. There is already an existing regulatory framework. In addition, such decisions will be taken by the EU Council of Ministers. Several mention this in their parliamentary movements. The Green Party is the worst, but also the Left Party and indeed the Center Party is taking it up. Social Democrats have previously expressed their support for camera surveillance. Now the Liberals join the crowd who want to try camera surveillance on fishing boats. Once upon a time, as late as the 1960s, the Liberals, or the People's Party as it was then called, were the obvious political choice for a fisherman. My father's two cousins Birger Utbolt and Olle Johansson, both people from Öckerö, were spokespersons of the fishermen here in Parliament. Please explain to me how you can suggest camera monitoring a professional group while in Sweden you find it difficult to get camera surveillance for the prevention of crime in society. That sounds absurd! There is every reason to watch over these issues so that they do not get hold of a majority in the EU or nationally. Madam President, I would like There are light points. The first is that neither the ban on bottom trawling nor the proposal on camera surveillance will be decided on in this round. My hope is that the rest of the parties will understand and understand the conditions of professional fishing and hard struggle to survive, not least during cold, icy winters, and give us a locally grown, protein-rich sea food. The fact that fishermen's knowledge has been used recently by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU, is also positive. Funds have also been released from the state to the development of selective tools. That's good. Regulatory simplifications for professional fishing are positive signals. There is also a budding belief in the future in young people about taking over this important basic industry. But then it must not be pushed in the face of crazy decisions here in the Swedish Parliament or by zealous and perhaps overzealous officials at the authorities.
i-77e323bcc0311778-600	Madam President, I would like I could not help asking for a reply, because I thought that Mr Utbolt was cranking too well and, in a graphic language, parts of the January Agreement were carelessly describing parts of the January Agreement linked to loose quotes of previous ministers' answers to questions in this House. I would like to point out that our committees carry out evaluations in different ways, and MJU did a few years ago an evaluation of pelagic fisheries which actually signed up to introducing camera surveillance on trial. That is exactly what the agreement says. Fishermen saw it as an opportunity for camera surveillance to be a way in which illegal fishing could also be dealt with. The question will nevertheless be returned to Mr Utbolt what the KD has for its proposals on illegal fishing. What are the active measures? After all, we want to promote all those fishermen who see sustainable fishing as their absolute activity. For the Center Party, we see it as an extremely important part that fishing is conducted sustainably but also that there is the possibility of increasing fishing linked to the fact that it is a more favourable condition for different species and so on. To suggest that the issues that are important to fishermen should not be highlighted was, I think, very strong on the part of the honourable Member. In this House, we, from many parties, are careful to look at evidence-based science but also at the practical experience that exists to solve this together, as has been done in Norway and as the honourable Member mentioned.
i-UWM99BccpWpLwaJXoBjzq4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Heie, for the question! Yes, that was my own question to Eskil Erlandsson about how he looked at the knowledge of fishermen versus research. He said he relied entirely on research. That, then, was the answer to my own question in this House. I'm going to read a little in-depth from the January agreement. It says that a general stop to bottom trawling is introduced in protected areas. It also states that illegal fishing should be stopped and camera surveillance of fishing vessels should be carried out to ensure compliance with the discard ban. It's pretty clear. You've been putting a stop to bottom trawling in protected areas. Fishing in protected areas, such as the Koster Sea – I think the honourable Member himself mentioned the Koster Sea before – is to be stopped. There is also in Väderöfjorden and Bratten. These are large areas where fishing is okay. You have permission to fish there. But you want to stop that. It is stated in the January agreement that a general stop to bottom trawling is introduced in protected areas. So there you are in the lake, so to speak. With regard to the other questions you mention, Ulrika the term What I am reacting to is the very attitude here, from the Prime Minister but also from the parties that have joined the January Agreement.
i-77e323bcc0311778-607	Madam President, I would like I understand Roland Utbolt has read the January Agreement. He reads from it, too. But I'm sorry he doesn't read all those parts. As Mr Utbolt says, it is about stopping it in sensitive areas. However, it is also stated in the next sentence of the January agreement: a limited exemption can be provided for in the management plan. However, it is a key sentence, linked to the fact that there are fishermen who in various ways have an activity in which new, increasingly gentle fishing gears are being developed, as Mrs Utbolt said. We look with great confidence at the research and development that can take place and at the practical development work, where we can also participate in sustainable fisheries. Let me return to Eskil Erlandsson's answer. The answer to a question, even one put in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament, is rarely half a sentence. I know Eskil Erlandsson well. He worked as a rural minister for eight years and conducted negotiations on EU fisheries policy during the eight years. He has, of course, with the experience of fishermen as important parts of the base. I would like us to have the opportunity to hear the whole paragraph when we take various parts out in the future. When Roland Utbolt speaks, it sounds like it is only a general stop and that it does not show that exceptions can be given in the management plan. I have great confidence in the co-management that takes place in different parts, just as I mentioned in relation to, for example, the Koster Sea. But we must also see that there are some problems and find solutions to them. This should be done together, both authorities and fishermen. And I know you do.
i-77e323bcc0311778-611	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Heie! The last thing you mention about research together with professional fishing is absolutely correct. I also said in the speech that a great deal has happened with regard to exchanges between fishermen and research. That's a good thing. You have to go hand in hand there. However, to have complete confidence in what the honourable Member describes and tries to express here, I am very sceptical about – whether to use that expression. In the January agreement, the 73-point programme, it says this: a general stop to bottom trawling is introduced in protected areas. The possibility of limited derogations may be provided for in the management plan. That's correct. But that's another thing to trust. I think that the attitude that is shown when using the expression, illegal fishing, and so on, still reveals little that you are not really on talking terms with fishing. The second thing you endorse is that there are trials on camera surveillance of fishing vessels to ensure compliance with the discard ban.
i-77e323bcc0311778-614	It doesn't say "try." It says that it will be implemented. I think you'll have to read it better. So there is every reason to be very hesitant.
i-77e323bcc0311778-616	( ANDRE VICE TALMANN: Roland Utbolt has the floor. ) Then we'll have to discuss it. I have another excerpt here. It doesn't say that.
i-77e323bcc0311778-618	Madam President, I would like Today, our rivers and seas have major problems: a fragile cod stock, dioxins, PCBs, eutrophication, bottom death, salmon death, algal blooms, parasites, from seal death to too much seal, disturbed ecosystems, corporal explosions and eels struggling for their survival. For thousands of years, we have viewed water and sea as an infinite resource. We've caught as much fish as we want, and there's always been more. With the help of the sea, we can reach much of our world. The sea is an important part of our trade. We could even throw our waste right into the sea, and it disappeared. The tragedy of the commons is an expression coined in the early 1800s. A number of people should cooperate, but the course of action that is good from an individual perspective is bad from the common point of view. A typical example of this is a sea of fishermen and fish. The fish fish fish too much, and the catches are decreasing. Every fisherman then fishes even more to keep his income, which leads to the end of the fish. Our common resources can be overexploited and have been lined by such problems throughout our history. These are even clearer today, in modern times with strong population growth and even more efficient fishing gear. Madam President, I would like The race, however, is not over. We can improve and save our waters and seas, just as mankind has the ability to harm it. Me and us Social Democrats want to see fresh water and healthy seas for our children and grandchildren. We want to see even more fish on the table and also in the future fishermen who fish, living coastal areas that provide livelihood, rest, experiences and culture and a vibrant coast and archipelago. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats do not fear the future. We know that cooperation, visions, strategies and clear objectives deliver results. With hard work, a fair distribution of our resources and a genuine will, we can leave a living earth even to our children. Several horizontal initiatives have been taken recently, both within Sweden and within the EU, to strengthen competitiveness in fisheries and for sustainability. For example, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund helps fishermen to switch to sustainable fishing and broaden their activities. The Fund promotes sustainable and innovative fisheries as well as aquaculture. The Fund promotes employment, local cohesion and development. The work promotes the promotion, processing and implementation of our common maritime policy. In 2018, further proposals for a future regulation and an updated marine and fisheries fund were also presented with greater freedom and fewer regulations. The Baltic Sea Plan was launched in 2016. It is a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat. The plan supports fisheries policy, sustainability and the marine ecosystem. Conversion, refinement and optimism of the future must shape our work. Nationally in Sweden, we have since 2015 the Swedish Seas and Fisheries Programme in place, which includes SEK 1 1⁄2 billion. The programme develops environmentally, economically and socially sustainable fisheries and aquaculture in Sweden. In 2015, the Social Democratic-led government also presented a strategy to promote maritime industries. The strategy is based on three equal perspectives – seas in balance, increased competitiveness and attractive coastal areas. With the maritime strategy, we shall integrate the labour market, tourism, the environment, fisheries and regional policy. In recent years, the Maritime and Water Authority has also carried out several government missions related to this. In 2016, the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management developed a strategy called Swedish Professional Fishing 2020, which aims to develop coastal fishing. The strategy highlights the importance of biological, social and economic considerations and cooperation between all actors. The Food Strategy, decided by the Riksdag in June 2017, underlines the need for increased Swedish food production and competitiveness in the food chain. marin food has opportunities here, as well as the fishing industry, the profession, competitiveness and innovation. Furthermore, the final report of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development clearly states that coastal, small-scale fishing is of great importance to many towns along the coasts of Sweden. For fishing companies, simpler and clearer rules are important – ultimately from a profitability perspective. Efforts should be made to reduce administrative burdens. Madam President, I would like Just recently, the January Agreement and the Four Party Agreement were concluded between the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. Sweden now has a direction and direction, and this also applies to fisheries policy. In the January agreement, we put the climate and jobs first. Small-scale coastal fishing is protected by competitiveness and fishing tourism, such as small-scale fishing companies. Biodiversity is supported. Sustainable fisheries will be developed. Bottom trawling in sensitive areas in Sweden, as well as within the EU, is to be reduced. And a general stop to bottom trawling in protected areas should be introduced. Measures are taken to support fishermen changing gears. Sweden should be a driving force in the EU for stronger cooperation, adapted catch quotas and fishing methods for sustainable fishing. A voluntary programme for the buy-back of eel fishing rights is introduced in Sweden, with the aim of reducing fishing of the seriously endangered eel. Control to stop illegal fishing is strengthened, without increasing the administrative burden. Attempts are being put in place with camera surveillance of fishing vessels to ensure compliance with bans. Subsidies leading to overfishing shall be phased out while safeguarding the competitiveness of sustainable small-scale fisheries. Madam President, I would like I have now spoken about our common challenges and opportunities, but in conclusion let me raise two fingers of warning. The first is this: the Moderates sometimes talk about their alleged commitment to the marine environment. This is very incomplete and excessive. The budget voted in this House by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats on Wednesday 12 December meant a formidable slaughter of resources devoted to environmental and climate work. In the big part, Sweden, we, with over SEK 2 billion, were set aside for environmental work, at a time when we soil has fever and the Baltic Sea suffers from severe eutrophication. Eutrophication is today the Baltic Sea's most serious problem. And the alleged actions of the Moderates for the marine and aquatic environment are completely undermined when, at the same time, wetland efforts are reduced by the same amount in their budget as the alleged effort on marine environment issues. Wetland becomes ditch. Dike's gonna be a river. Oh, it's going to be a stream. Bäck's gonna be a river. Elf flows into the Baltic Sea. Wetlands are one of the most effective measures to reduce nutrient leakage to the Baltic Sea and stop eutrophication, which is why this reduction is particularly serious. The budget, which was set by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, completely lacks a holistic approach to environmental and climate work in general and eutrophication issues in particular, as shown in the view of wetlands. Secondly, Madam President, there are 101 days left before the European elections. It is an important choice about which path we want to go and what future we want to face. This applies not least to our fisheries policy. The EU is fundamentally created for peace and freedom and benefits us very well-economically, interpersonally and environmentally. A common fisheries policy benefits us all. It is now a wave of nationalistic and destructive forces over Europe, calling for simple solutions and for EU cooperation to be phased out. If Britain now crashes out of the EU, Swedish fishermen are threatened, as tens of thousands of tonnes of fish are at stake. Over 1 million tons of fish and shellfish are drawn each year into British waters. More than half are taken up by fishermen from other countries, including Sweden. If there is now a British withdrawal without agreement, Sweden will also lose the right to fish around the British islands. With Brexit comes chaos and losers. With Brexit, Swedish fishermen also lose. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are relentless in their view of the European Union. We want to protect and develop the European Union. We Social Democrats want to protect and develop our common fisheries policy. We want to protect and develop fisheries, our seas and our waters. And we want to see a vibrant coast and archipelago.
i-77e323bcc0311778-642	Madam President, I would like I'll first thank Markus Selin. This is the first time I've debated with you. Thank you for your speech. However, I would like to correct you on one point. In the KD-M budget, we are investing 400 million in the LOVA project to reduce fattening in coastal areas. That's 400 million, and it goes to the county boards. That is information that I think the honourable Member has missed. I would like to ask what will happen to the decisions of the Social Democrats during the last Congress. The aim was to ban bottom trawling in Swedish waters but also to promote a ban throughout the EU. What about it? I have noticed when I spoke to representatives of the Social Democrats who have previously been in this House and who have dealt with these issues that it was not happy with that decision. They say there was someone from the inland who had affected the whole thing. It may not be wrong, but it was also the case that the former rural minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht ducked some of them for banning bottom trawling. For he realized that it is not reasonable. It's not gonna work. It affects too much of coastal fishing. My question is: what is it really going to be like? If you have a congressional decision, you should actually follow it. I do not know how it works in your party, but normally they try to make such a decision happen. However, nothing has happened in a couple of years. What's it gonna be? That's my question.
i-LmHRA2M93Bq3wd46uZKYGk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roland Utbolt! Where do we start? There are management plans, and you mentioned Kosterhavet earlier, Roland Utbolt. You don't have to worry, because where there are management plans you can continue to fish. You can take it easy on that part. The second thing I think about spontaneously is technological development. You mentioned a few years in your speech, ranging from 1860 to 1960. I've been on board modern fishing vessels, and we can compare with modern fighter planes. They have modern communication equipment, winches that do both in a few seconds and modern sonar that allows you to communicate and position any way you want. In other words, when the trawl is transferred over certain areas, there are at least two effects. The first is that whole stocks are swept away and never come back, whether it is fish or shrimp. If this is biological, the second is physical: With bottom trawl you destroy the bottom, perhaps forever. Again, with regard to the budget and the reduction of SEK 600 million: this directly damages the protection of our wetland. The Baltic Sea's biggest problem today is eutrophication. It is a sick sea, and we Social Democrats promise to do what we can. We will succeed through genuine hard work, and now we also have the January agreement in place. We will protect the fauna, and we will continue to work hard for sustainable fishing.
i-4UcmKZ3BHzPYWohiQUcKUv	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Markus Selin! When you pull up a huge amount of fish, it's about a total quota. You can't take up more than the quota; that's how it works. You cannot say that you take up entire stocks of fish, but you have your steps that you have to take. That you can position yourself however you want with the boat is also not correct. You're pretty hard-controlled, you're supposed to report where you are and so on. I think the honourable Member is quite wrong about bottom trawling tearing up the bottom. Compared with agriculture, where it is ploughed, one can say that a bottom trawl is so constructed that it lies down. It does not pull the bottom, but, for example, pulls shrimps that are not on the bottom but 10 to 15 centimetres up, while crayfish lie more on the bottom. The thing now is that you work with selective equipment where it is a trawl table that only touch the bottom, but despite this you are incredibly negative and just want to ban bottom trawling. It is propaganda from the Green Party in particular that I believe the Social Democrats have gone on here. I am extremely disappointed and dismayed when I hear your mistaken view of what professional fishing is really about, Markus Selin, and how it happens when you are out fishing. Please take a little more part of how it works out there!
i-77e323bcc0311778-653	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank all of Sweden's fishermen. I was the only Member of Parliament at the first national fisheries conference in Karlstad two weeks ago. As Mr Roland pointed out, I have had a very good idea of how modern trawling works. I have met fishermen who tell me with emotion about the side effects of modern, high-tech fishing. I also have full respect for Roland Utbult's father and grandfather and a tradition of fishermen. I could stand here in the speaker's chair for a long time and tell you that my grandfather made toilet paper at the old venerable company Nokia and that my grandmother made rubber boots at the same company. I can tell you about my father's move because of unemployment to Sweden to find work here and that he still suffered from the steel crisis in Sweden in 1980. With this, Madam President, I would like to say that technological developments have also reached the fishing industry and that I have seen its positive and negative effects. Again: Wetland becomes ditch, ditch becomes stream, stream becomes river, river becomes river and river flows into the Baltic Sea. Madam President, I would like I would like to know why the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are cutting so many hundred million on the wetlands and thus destroying our Baltic Sea.
i-77e323bcc0311778-656	Madam President, I would like The oceans are Earth's lungs and pantry. In order to combat poverty and to save the climate, the seas must feel good. Unfortunately, the seas are turning into dumps, and important fish stocks are at risk as a result of over-aggressive depletion. The sea is a renewable resource that must be used sustainably through responsible management. Then fishing must remain within the framework of scientific assessments of what stocks can withstand. Fishing has often been exposed to an unclear and sometimes thorny policy, which has led to a decline in confidence in the future in the industry. Over the years, the number of professional fishermen has been minimised to a very small number because they do not dare to invest in activities other than those of purely tourism. It looks the same along virtually the whole of our long coastline. Swedish fishing, not least coastal and small-scale fishing, has a future, but this requires a long-term approach in the regulatory framework so that professional fishing can adapt in an orderly manner. That is why the so-called January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals is important. There is agreement on the direction of the policy in several areas, including in the area of fisheries policy. There, the Government undertakes to protect small-scale coastal fishing and its competitiveness, to work towards sustainable fisheries development with measures to reduce bottom trawling in sensitive areas in Sweden and the EU and to introduce a general stop to bottom trawling in protected areas, with the possibility of limited exceptions in the management plan. I read inside, so no one gets confused. Liberals will be actively involved in this work. That is also why we choose to follow up the report in the main with a separate opinion. Liberals also believe in consumer power and that consumers can contribute to a more sustainable sea by making informed choices when buying fish and shellfish. That is why we will pursue the issue of clear and simple labelling, which shows that fishing is carried out in a sustainable manner in terms of fish stocks and climate impact. The system of transferable fishing rights, how to facilitate generational changes in fishing companies and the change of licence holders, and the development of new gear and trapping methods are some of the crucial issues in the Swedish fishing industry, if we are not to have tourist boats on our fishing grounds in the future. This is something that the committee has expressed in the past and has continued to express this year as well. Madam President, I would like One thing that Swedish fishermen and very much Scanian fishermen have long been aware of is that different interpretations of common EU rules are made by different countries. However, if the EU is to work, all Member States must comply with common laws and rules, including on our seas. The Commission has now presented a proposal for a revised control regulation, which will shortly be negotiated, with the aim, among other things, of improving compliance with the rules of the fisheries policy and ensuring a level playing field for fisheries operators, in my case on both sides of Sundet. If we take care of ourselves, there is a great potential for development in Swedish aquaculture. It is good that the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management should work continuously to highlight how the Agency sees the aquaculture conditions as well as that there is research on and further development of aquaculture. However, it is also important in this work to ensure that the new animal health regulation at EU level is complied with so that we have modern and coherent legislation that protects animal welfare, public health and environmental interests as well as production economic interests in order to achieve long-term and sustainable fisheries. Madam President, I would like Raised at Skälderviken and the coast of Öresund, I can assure you that there is not much that can upset a show as gravely as not being allowed to fish its cod. It would probably only be overdone by not finding eel on the Christmas table. So finally a few words about the eel, this loaded fish. The eel stock is still at an alarmingly low level and substantial measures are needed to recover the stock. I therefore welcome the fact that Sweden is living up to the commitments it has undertaken and that the government has also undertaken to introduce a voluntary programme for the buy-back of eel fishing rights to reduce fishing and to strengthen control to stop illegal fishing. I understand that some of the Scanian voters will not pay tribute to me for what I have just said. But it is based on scientific reporting, on the reality that we are learning from those who are out there fishing and on the fact that I and the Liberals want future generations to have a chance to see eel at all – both at sea and on the Christmas table.
i-77e323bcc0311778-666	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tina Acketoft, for your speech. I found it interesting to hear a new liberal voice in the fisheries policy. If you're raised by the sea, I understand that you can take over from Lars Tysklind and others who have spoken to the Liberals here before. A little nostalgic becomes when you think of the People's Party, as it was called before, and all the fishermen who voted for that party. There was really a full turnout there. But something happened – in 1964 there came a new party that picked some of the voters back then. But we're leaving the nostalgia. Previously, I had a change of line with Ulrika Heie from the Center Party. I have to give her the right. It does not change anything in itself, but if it is okay, I would just like to say that it is trials on camera surveillance of fishing vessels that are to be carried out. I didn't see it; I thought it was in another place. It will be implemented. You were right there, Ulrika Heie, but that doesn't change the whole picture. I'm still just as negative about this. I now turn to Mr Acketoft. How does it feel for you and for you in the Liberals to stand up for a general stop to bottom trawling in protected areas, although it is with some limited exceptions, and a camera surveillance to be conducted on trial? Is that really something Liberals are up to?
i-77e323bcc0311778-670	I would just like to remind you that one line should stick to the speech that has just been made.
i-77e323bcc0311778-671	Madam President, I would like As Mr Utbult apologized to my honourable colleague, I think it was perfectly okay that he took his speaking time to do so. I must say that it is not enough to be born and raised on the coast to be able to fill Lars Tysklind's shoes. It certainly does not. If it had been that simple, I'd be happy. What I do, however, is go back to Lars Tysklind to check that I end up right because this is a new period for me in a new committee. That is to say, I have checked all the points that I have on my agenda. I have not only checked them with Lars; I have also checked them with those who have contacted me – and who actually pay tribute to the 73-point programme. They say we've landed exactly right. They were afraid of the Green Party's movements. They were also afraid of the line that Roland Utbolt apparently advocates, that is to bring home everything that can be brought home. They wanted a middle ground, and they think this proposal is really good. It made me happy and proud. It feels like a bit of an honor to stand here and try to fill Lars Tysklind's shoes when I also have a number of organizations in my back. They are, for example, from the Koster Sea, where it is said that the 73-point programme's proposals are good proposals and that the programme is a good balance between what we must be able to balance: responsibility and rights. So thank you, Roland Utbolt, for showing compassion, but I feel great!
i-77e323bcc0311778-675	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tina Acketoft! The fact that you have checked something does not necessarily mean that it is correct. I don't know what you've been checking, either. You mention organizations. You don't say which ones, but you might question where you got your information. You put it like I want to bring back everything that's in the ocean. It's pure... it's a misunderstanding, to use a mild expression. We have quotas. We have a quota system. It follows professional fishing, of course, and it is decided. This saying that fishermen bring back everything that is in the sea – something that I think I have also heard from other speakers here – shows what is so serious: there is a distrust of professional fishing that is deeply rooted in this Parliament by a number of parties and by a number of representatives. I think it is very good, Tina Acketoft, if you can take over from others who have spoken here before who have conducted a constructive policy on fishing, both professional and other fishing. So be careful to say that what I mean when I say that professional fishing takes its responsibility is to bring home what is in the sea, because that is not really true.
i-77e323bcc0311778-679	Madam President, I would like Then let me make it clear: it is certainly not the fishermen that I have any doubts about. After all, they think these proposals are good. They think it is good to have limited bottom trawling and try surveillance cameras to deal with illegal fishing. Yes, it is illegal fishing if it violates the law. Then it is by definition illegal fishing. There's nothing else. So it is not the fishermen that I have any mistrust about, but Roland Utbult's combat technique. In fact, I have great distrust of it. I can only quote the chairman of the closest association, which I believe has been written to several of us. It is the society of Resö-Galtö economic association at Kosterhavet, i.e. the very sea that Roland Utbolt now speaks for. They say that they are pleased with the majority of the committee. They think we've landed in a good balance. In fact, they think that we can take care of both the responsibility and the rights side and that there needs to be no crucial contradiction between nature conservation and long-term sustainable fishing. I think maybe you should read a little more thoroughly before swinging – even if you apologize in a later line change. I think Roland Utbolt really means what we are doing, but right now they want to take on the role of the Great Savior of the Koster Sea – when people there are actually grateful for what the majority of the committee has presented here today.
i-77e323bcc0311778-682	Madam President, I would like New serious tasks reached me just a few days ago. The researchers now have clear indications that the situation of cod in the eastern Baltic Sea is worse than we had previously had information about. What is really worrying is that in many places in a very large sea area in the eastern Baltic Sea they apparently did not find any cod at all now in late autumn. It's very serious. What concerns me now is whether we really have time to wait for ICES to draw up its scientific recommendations in May. The situation is very urgent. Is it the same in the Baltic Sea as on Grand Bank off the North American coast? Is it the case that the cod has collapsed? I am sure that, in a few days' time, we will have more information on this via the media. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a long-term sustainable fisheries policy. There are many rules and laws governing fishing. Regulations are available at all levels: within the EU as well as nationally, regionally and locally. In addition, there are international conventions that Sweden supports. It can be difficult for entrepreneurs to follow all the rules and clear all the administration they face. Therefore, regulatory simplification work, more collaboration, digitalisation and increased dialogue are needed. This also applies to the fishing industry. However, the simplification of the rules is not aimed at changing the rules. It might be good to remember. Control to stop illegal fishing will be strengthened, without increasing the overall administrative burden on businesses. Tests on camera surveillance of fishing vessels shall be carried out to ensure compliance with the discard ban. In order for the fishing profession to exist in the long term, the conditions need to be improved, I think we can all agree on that. The most important prerequisite is to ensure the availability of sustainable stocks of different species of fish in seas, lakes and watercourses. There must be functioning, healthy ecosystems that are not poisoned. For the sea and fish to recover, the hunt for the last food fish must be stopped. Sure, there's a conflict in this area. Individual fishermen – I shouldn't say there are many – think they should be allowed to fish more. And individual politicians think that fishermen should be allowed to fish more. It is referred to income and to that fishing is a tradition and a culture in many places in Sweden. I understand the frustration that exists, and I also think it is politically complicated. However, it is not possible to compare an industry that is dependent on a biological system with an industrial activity of any kind. In the automotive industry, for example, you can continue to produce cars until all economic calculations show red figures. But in the fishing industry, fishing needs to stop completely when a fisher is heavily affected, even if there are isolated places where fishing can provide profitability in the short term. I am not saying that it is easy to make these balances. But we politicians have devoted a lot of tax money to research, and we want researchers to make recommendations to us. We must follow the recommendations, even if this means that the fishing industry is affected. In the long term, we must have the ambition that there should be a fishing industry left along Sweden's coasts. Madam President, I would like It is not news that the situation for the fish is serious. The round fishing has been going on for a very long time. Politicians now listen more than before to scientists' alarms. But there is still much to do. The bottom trawling, as we have heard today, is controversial. In a research report from SLU, Bottom trawling – effects on marine systems and measures to reduce bottom impact, there is a good summary of the effects of bottom trawling and also a summary of studies of bottom trawling in marine protected areas. As many have said here, demersal plants and animals are damaged and killed by bottom trawling. In some fishing areas, the bottom life may find it difficult to recover, shows research and research compilations. Sustainable fisheries will be developed through measures to reduce bottom trawling in sensitive areas of Sweden and the EU and through a general halt to bottom trawling introduced in protected areas. The possibility of limited derogations may be provided for in the management plan. This is exactly what we read in the January agreement. The introduction of a halt to bottom trawling in protected areas is necessary when we see the severity of the effects of bottom trawling. Protected areas must be protected. Measures to support fishermen changing gears are part of the government's existing policy. In areas where Sweden's whale species porpoises are located, fishing using other methods than bottom trawling is not appropriate. Overall, it is extremely important that the dialogue between fisheries stakeholders, researchers and politicians is strengthened and developed. We have to understand each other. The contradiction between fisheries and nature conservation is also a labour market issue. Increased unemployment affects an industry when fishing is restricted. This is a social issue. Since we want fisheries to be sustainable in the long term, we need clearer and better labour market strategies. Sweden must be a driving force in the EU for stronger cooperation, where both catch quotas and fishing methods are adapted to achieve sustainable fish stocks. A voluntary programme for the buy-back of eel fishing rights must be introduced with a view to reducing the fishing of the endangered eel. It is no secret that the Green Party believes that eel fishing must stop completely. There is a need for a moratorium on cod fishing in the eastern Baltic Sea stock. In fact, ICES has for many years been recommending that sprat fishing be moved north, north of Gotland's southern cape, to give the remaining cod the opportunity for recovery. Cods are, unfortunately, already genetically degenerated in the Baltic Sea; that is why they have decreased in size. Madam President, I would like We need a comprehensive fisheries policy. I would like to pay tribute to all non-profit sports fishermen who make a good contribution by building pike factories and playgrounds for salmon species in particular. Finally, I want to tell you that I grew up by the sea, in Bonässund, overlooking Öviks- and Dekarsöfjärden. When I was a kid, the dead bottoms were widespread. The natural thing 40 – 50 years ago, when I grew up, was not to swim or fish in the bay. It was a stinking sea. As a young field biologist, I protested against mercury discharges and the dead bottoms and against the use of the sea as a landfill. Now the sea no longer stinks, but studies show that the fish that is now present have metabolic disturbances and retarded reproduction. It's still poisoned. The historical emissions of substances that can cause hormonal disturbances have been large and continue to have an effect. Why am I referring to this, the chemicals policy, in a fisheries policy debate, you are thinking. We need to develop a fisheries policy that is even more actively reducing environmental problems in the seas and allowing fish stocks to recover. Chemicals and fisheries policy are interrelated. I don't know exactly when the fishermen disappeared in Örnsköldsviksfjärden. It's been a long time. I don't know when they'll be able to come back either. I only know that if it is something that the fishing industry is valiant of, it is that we do not have a quiet sea, but living fish stocks and living seas. We must fight for that together.
i-77e323bcc0311778-703	Madam President, I would like We've talked a lot of history here and told you where we're from. I thought I'd start the same way myself. My mother was a fish daughter from Hirtshals, so I spent all my summers there, on the west coast of Denmark, in fishing families and in dense symbiosis with small-scale coastal fishing. Both my uncle and my grandfather were fishermen all their lives. Already then, in the 1960s, they were worried about how life in the sea changed and how the porpoises became fewer and fewer. Since then, fish stocks in the oceans have been falling at a raging rate. And even though we spend a lot of money on research every year to know more about how the fish in the oceans are doing, how the oceans are doing and to get other important knowledge in order for the policy to have an opportunity to make good and sensible decisions that ensure that we have long-term sustainable fishing in the EU and in Sweden – and even though we say that we should make decisions based on what the research says about how to get sustainable fishing – we do not make decisions that lead to sustainable fishing. We in Sweden may do so to a greater extent than other countries in the European Union, but not to a sufficient extent. Swedish fishermen are often an example in relation to other countries, but despite this they are not sustainable enough in their fishing. I hear here in the hall today that everyone wants a sustainable yield of fish stocks, as well as that we in politics should ensure that there are good conditions for Sweden's fishermen. That's good. The very best conditions we, as politicians, can give fishermen both today and in the longer term are that we take decisions that ensure that fish stocks are no greater than that stocks can live and thrive, because then the fisherman can also live and flourish. Everywhere in our seas we see that fish stocks go down and are knocked out. Right now we are hearing that the eastern stock of the Baltic Sea is probably over. You can't find any fish there. Ices has long warned against this. We haven't listened. It may seem that the fisheries decisions taken by the EU institutions should be compatible with the EU's environmental rules, but decisions are made on fishing quotas that are contrary to scientific recommendations and the conservation requirements of the fisheries regulation annually. I would like to conclude by saying that I am very concerned. I've been working on this issue for 15 to 20 years. There are only fewer and fewer fish and fewer and fewer fishers. I am concerned about how we humans manage a resource that, if we manage it properly, can meet millions of people's needs for food. This is the case if we manage it in a sustainable way. But at present we don't.
i-77e323bcc0311778-710	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Falkhaven! That's very interesting! We are a number of people who have grown up by the sea. It's exciting, because then you get acquainted with the fishing in different ways. I have been in Hirtshals – or Halsen, as we at Öckerö usually call it – a number of times and unloaded fish. I've been in the Shetland Islands fishing for a storm in Bergen, Stavanger and Haugesund. I am grateful for all the contributions that have been here today. I think it is exciting if we can have a good dialogue here. Dialogue is really the most important thing, and then, of course, a dialogue between professional fishing and research, just as Elisabeth Falkhaven also mentioned. It is also interesting with the various reasons we have heard about here. It is good that there is no longer just talk about overfishing, because it is also about eutrophication, seals and cormorants. It's about parasites attacking cod. It may not have been mentioned here today, but much of what is happening in the Baltic Sea is about parasites on cod, among other things. I would just like to ask you, Elisabeth Falkhaven, how you justify this with camera surveillance, and if you have time to say something about the bottom trawling too.
i-77e323bcc0311778-714	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roland Utbolt! Now I did not say anything about the bottom trawling in my speech, but I talked about a lot of other things. However, as has been said here before, this issue of camera surveillance is an attempt. There's illegal fishing. Why not see if there's anything we can do about it? The sea is a huge place that we humans have affected in many different ways. We know that the cod in Kattegat is also almost completely gone. This is due, among other things, to eutrophication and climate change, so that surface water has become much too hot. But it is also human influence. Everywhere we go, we influence life in the ocean. It won't be so good in the end. We need to take much more responsibility. As I said, the fish in the sea is a huge resource, and we must be careful that we can have food from the oceans instead of having to grow fish on land. If we had been careful of the fish in the sea, we might not have had to spend so much money on growing fish on land. Now we need it.
i-77e323bcc0311778-717	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Falkhaven! I have reacted to a few words that I find offensive here today. You talk a lot about illegal activities among fishermen. When the Prime Minister mentions illegal fishermen but does not mention other professional groups, I find it embarrassing. That attitude comes out a lot here. I think that one should try to understand in that area. With regard to fishing, there are quotas in both demersal and pelagic fisheries. This should not really be a problem, because we now have authorities like HaV who are involved in steering this up. There's a lot going on here. I think there have been many very good contributions here which talk about what is being done. Unfortunately, however, there is sometimes an attitude that upsets a lot of fishing and fishermen as a kind of illegal profession. This is what I have a problem with. Surely we all want sustainable fishing here – I am convinced – and the fishermen have also realised that it is very important. I have been around for so long that I have seen that they have fished up quite a lot of fish. But right now, I think we should start from what it looks like today. There is hope, but we must also make young people feel confident in this profession.
i-77e323bcc0311778-721	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roland Utbolt! As far as quotas are concerned, all countries in the EU have said that they should go on the recommendations of scientists. That's what we're not doing. That's why there's gonna be a problem. Yeah. There are quotas that are decided, but you do not go on the researchers' recommendations, and then there will be problems. Otherwise, there would be no less fish. I hope we agree on that. We know that there are fewer and fewer fish in the oceans all the time. As for the fact that we are after the fishermen, I can tell you that 15-17 years ago I started a project about fishermen having to talk more with scientists and politicians. Then they didn't talk to each other at all, but then there was a big war. I, if anyone, know it's incredibly important that we keep talking. But we also need to agree on what the reality is, and we still are not, I would say.
i-P4XEGxmRHMWrHR71wUHYkE	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations in which the Moderates are involved, but for time winning I only ask for reservation 29. Climate change is a matter of destiny that concerns all of us. We already see examples of the effects of more and more extreme weather in the form of floods, droughts and melting polar ices. We all have a responsibility to take the issues seriously, because none of us escape the consequences. In the Swedish Parliament we have agreed on the world's perhaps most ambitious climate goals, which seven out of eight parties are behind, which is a great strength. There is no doubt that Sweden is taking the climate threat seriously. However, where there are some differences, the path we are looking at is the one towards the goal. This is my first debate as an environmental and climate policy spokesperson for the Moderates. But during my four years as a transport policy spokesperson, I have worked intensively to reduce emissions from the transport sector, which accounts for one third of Sweden's total emissions. Another third is the industry. It is quite clear that it is in these two sectors that major efforts will be required. I carry with me some important principles in the climate work. Firstly, climate policy needs more hope and less sack and ashes if we are to bring people into this important transition. The world has, as you know, passed great technological leaps in the past, and we will do it again. Great progress is being made in many different directions that we politicians need to spread, encourage and make possible.
i-77e323bcc0311778-732	中 SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall have decided to make the world's first fossil-free steel. The goal of Cementa on Gotland is to produce cement free of carbon dioxide through electrification. These and other good examples need to be disseminated and increased. So many advances are taking place around us that more people should have every reason to feel hope. Secondly, we Moderates see the need for a climate policy that puts the results first. Climate policy must be treated with the same seriosity and efficiency requirements as other areas. Together with heavy bodies such as the Institute of Economic Development and the Swedish National Audit Office, we have repeatedly criticised the policy that the Red-Green Government has pursued because it does not deliver results. In the last two years, Swedish emissions have increased, according to SCB. At the same time, the Red-Green Government has reported the results of its policy by telling us how much money they spend. The climate has neither the money nor the time for more symbolic politics. Thirdly, climate change will place great demands on the transformation of society as a whole. If we are to fundamentally reform industry and transport, we will all be affected. But it also requires sensitivity, otherwise we risk confidence in climate policy. If voters do not feel that politicians have an understanding of their everyday lives, it will fight back against climate change and in the form of mistrust of the political system. We are seeing it in France today, and we have seen it before in the United States. I live in Norra Djurgårdsstaden in Stockholm, an environmental district built on the principle that you should not need a car. On the street below us are at least seven car pool cars parked every day. The buses are many into town, and there are as many bike models as there are car models elsewhere. It's ordinary bikes, electric bikes and box bikes that go by when people are going to and from work. Here it is easy to say that many of us do not need the car. My in-laws, on the other hand, live two miles outside Ockelbo in Gävleborg County, with as many miles to the nearest grocery store. For most people there, neither the bike nor the bus is a realistic alternative to get everyday life together. A reasonable and fair climate policy sees and takes account of both these realities, both urban and rural, and everything in between. It is important to give people with different conditions an honest chance to change. In the name of the climate, introducing a range of taxes and tax increases that do not have a climate-control effect, and hitting those who do not have alternatives directly, is dangerous from this point of view. Fourthly, Sweden should take its share of the responsibility, but we cannot do the work for the whole world, and we cannot save the climate ourselves. International action and agreements, in the EU and globally, are absolutely crucial. Otherwise, we will not get closer to global targets, and at worst, we risk simply shifting emissions. Many countries are now facing the growth journey that we have already made. In order to help them not to make any mistakes in our emissions, we are greatly expanding our climate aid. Fifthly, Sweden should continue to be a green pioneer country that other countries want to follow. We have good opportunities for exports of environmental and climate-smart technology from Swedish industry. But we must be able to combine strong environmental and climate action with sustained or increased competitiveness and prosperity. Otherwise, no other country will want to follow. The current M- and KD budget includes strong efforts on the climate such as: 中 Developed charging infrastructure along our roads so that more dare to reset and buy an electric car or hydrogen car. A further billion to climate aid so that other countries can make their growth journey more sustainable. 中 Investing in the restructuring of the industry. In the long term, we want to see a more effective climate deduction for those who invest in revolutionary technologies to reduce emissions. But until then, we match every crown the previous government has set aside for the transition in the base industry. It is money that can also go to capture and store carbon dioxide, as the UN Panel on Climate Change has said is necessary if we are to achieve climate targets. We also invest in environmental research, much more than the previous government did. But we won't settle there. In the report we are discussing today, we state that more needs to be done. Some of the elements that we highlight in our reservations are as follows: The Environmental Code is to be reviewed in order to highlight climate aspects more clearly in decision-making. We want to continue to make demands on the conversion of aircraft. Much more effective than the government's tax on the flight ticket itself is to impose mandatory inclusion of renewable fuel in all aviation fuel. We also want to renegotiate the international conventions that put an end to the taxation of aviation fuel. We want the government to develop a path in the reduction obligation until 2030 so that we tighten the requirements for reduced CO2 emissions from our vehicles. We want to harmonise compensation for indirect effects at EU level, which would ultimately benefit countries that have switched their electricity generation and thus promote the transition to a fossil-free society. We want calculation conventions to be developed to assess the climate benefits of the proposals put forward, and we want the government to report them. Madam President, I would like One issue that will also become increasingly important is the issue of energy, where access to biofuels and electricity will be crucial for achieving our climate goals in the transport sector and industry. Here it is important to safeguard the carbon-free energy mix that Sweden has and that together with the renewables is dependent on nuclear and hydropower. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) says that if the climate targets are to be met, the world's nuclear power must increase by 100 to 200 percent. There are ideological cane horses here which some parties must abandon if we are to reach climate targets. Madam President, I would like In recent years emissions have increased, according to SCB. That was not the case under the alliance government. At that time growth increased by 10 per cent, while emissions decreased by 19 per cent. That's where we have to go. Anyone who believes that the climate threat is real is also obliged to take politics seriously. We must stop measuring measures in only crowns and instead measure in results. Svante Axelsson at Fossil-free Sweden usually says that Sweden's climate work should be so good that we even make Trump jealous. There's a lot in it. In order to succeed, it is important that people and companies throughout Sweden know confidence in climate policy and that politicians do the right things with their tax money and that it is done with respect for people's everyday lives. People care about the climate and want to contribute. Politics should make it easy to do the right thing, and we should make sure that we give real priority to measures that benefit the climate. The climate simply cannot afford or afford more symbolic politics.
i-77e323bcc0311778-765	Madam President, I would like We recently had an election campaign that put the climate issue high on the agenda. Now that the liberal parties became part of the socialist government base, the questions are given great importance. I have to say, unfortunately, not because the issues are not important but because of the way in which politics is conducted. The January Agreement presents relatively significant tax reductions. Good so far. The tax burden in Sweden is generally too high, and marginal taxes are in an international comparison exceptionally high. However, the agreement is about something else: a green tax shift. But it's only green on paper. In reality, these are proposals that give little or no benefit to the environment at all. Instead, it is a radical and extreme policy that increases the divides and puts land against city and wealthy towards low-income earners. Madam President, I would like Comparing the tax burden on rural areas now announced, the fuel tax increases of unpopular Macron appear to be extremely marginal. The red-green government lowers taxes for those who earn the most. At the same time, stock exchange CEOs' Teslain purchases are subsidised with tens of thousands of crowns. Low and middle income earners in rural areas see taxes on labour remain high, and their new budget family car becomes thousands more expensive to own. No discount of 60 000, such as the one given to Tesla buyers, is granted. The green tax shift gives to the rich and benefits those who live inside the subway network but take from middle and low-income people in the countryside. It's about families with children and people who have a long way to work. Madam President, I would like The climate policy debate during the election campaign was marked by fear and intimidation. Sometimes it was about purely dystopian theories and future scenarios. On this path, the socialist and liberal parties continue their policies. This is ominous – not because the climate issue is not important, because it is, of course, and not because we should not be worried, because we are going to do so. Of course, we should also take research seriously. We don't even have to discuss that. We have a responsibility to make rationally based decisions that help solve problems and reduce emissions at global level. But if we are stuck in doomsday theories and dystopian doom scenarios, we will not make well-balanced, rationally based decisions. That is where we are today. The pursuit of doing something is much greater than the pursuit of doing something for real. Madam President, I would like There is something seriously wrong with the Swedish climate debate. A large part of it is about whether to build extremely expensive fast tracks between our big cities in order to reduce emissions sometime late in this century. Something is also wrong when we spend billions on financing the purchase of electric bicycles, without this having any measurable effect on climate policy, or when we invest tax money on climate anxiety courses. We can count on this initiative to be stepped up. The reform has also been strongly criticised by the Swedish National Audit Office. In fact, expert authorities working for the government note that the government's policy further increases the socio-economic costs in this area without reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. So we have a serious problem. We also have a serious problem in that we have a policy that does not solve this but that costs an incredible amount of money. The transport sector and the decided change of fuel are worth mentioning here. Today we mix more biofuels than ever in our diesel, and that sounds good. You can, as center parties often do, talk about green carbon atoms. However, carbon atoms do not have different colors. Today, when we refuel our diesel cars, about 44% of the biofuels come from palm oil-based fuels. These help to deforest forests and increase greenhouse gas emissions. They deplete biodiversity and are directly harmful to animal life. But in the Swedish statistics it looks good, so why not continue? Such reasoning must be based on the analysis. Otherwise, scientists agree that palm oil contributes to higher emissions than fossil fuels. They wonder why we should involve this in our thoughts. Of course, it has to do with that calculation. We must meet it because of unrealistic objectives which we have unfortunately set in this House. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to work to improve the climate targets so that they are formulated as the expert authorities want. We want the targets to be based on reductions in emissions at the global level at the lowest possible cost. The bets should be made where you get as much per crown as possible. We want research to be a guiding principle. Today, over 80% of all energy comes from fossil energy sources. We simply need to find better ways to extract energy cost-effectively. This will not change over the next few decades. Forecasts suggest that it will continue to be around 80%. Sweden has been a fantastic example in this area. We have been and are still a big electric exporter. Through our fossil-free energy we are helping to phase out other countries' fossil fuels. We have been able to see it this winter when we have had record production at the Swedish nuclear power plants. These amazing facilities want to phase out the current government base. The debate refers to the fact that the electricity market steers away from nuclear power, which is, of course, a clear strawman in the debate. One cannot pretend that we have an independent energy market when it is regulated through politically decided subsidies that make unprofitable power profitable and ultimately cause problems, such as security of supply and dependence on imports. In the long run, we will have increased production of fossil fuels. It is not possible to replace stable nuclear power with weather-dependent power whose production peaks and valleys generally covariate with those of our neighbouring countries. We in Sweden are now implementing something that can be said to be an Energiewende light. It is not as drastic, but in the long run we will have the same problem. Germany has spent some EUR 500 billion on renewables over the last ten years, but the amount of emissions has not moved significantly. By contrast, electricity bills have become much more expensive. Madam President, I would like The Klim policy must therefore be tightened up. It must be effective and useful where it matters. The hope we had, when we thought we had a non-socialist majority in parliament, was that we could also get more from effective climate policy. That's not what happened. Instead, we now have a liberal-socialist government base. But I'm sure there'll be better times. There is potential that we in Sweden will be able to have an effective climate policy in the future and that there will be an end to placard politics. Having said that, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 19. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but we are content for the winning of time to call for its approval.
i-WbZpSAmG4bL81tVrEY3wHr	Madam President, I would like I support reservations 6 and 24. Sweden has fantastic conditions. We top the ranking in the climate area, now as before. We have phased out oil from the heating sector and from the electricity sector. We have an energy mix that many other countries envy us. Nevertheless, I am concerned, because I have seen developments in the past few years that have gone in the wrong direction. During the previous government emissions increased. Even now, before the January agreement enters into force properly, Swedish emissions are increasing. This shows the need for a new impetus in Swedish politics. We must reduce emissions and, at the same time, increase growth and prosperity. That's how we make a difference to the climate in real life. That is how we set an example in the world. No country will want to tax off or reduce its welfare gains in order to take care of the climate. We should be the example that shows that we are reducing emissions and increasing growth – just like during the alliance period. That's the way forward. However, we are often hampered by complicated rules and high costs. This hinders entrepreneurship and rural development, despite the fact that it is in rural areas that the solutions needed for the green transition are available. That is where the raw materials of the future and the energy supply are. That is where solutions to the climate challenge exist. Good living conditions are also needed. Of course there are challenges. We're going to have more of a railroad. We're going to have more of smart transportation. But it doesn't always work in the whole country. Then we have to think smarter. We must also show what potential there is and who is sitting on the solutions. It's in the countryside we have the forest. This is where we have the green carbon atoms, which, although they have exactly the same molecular structure as the fossils but which are part of a cycle, which I am happy to talk more about with the Swedish Democrats to explain the chemical difference. That's where the energy from hydropower and wind power is. That is what builds much of our heavy industry. That's where manure is made into biogas. That's where there's residual waste that you can also drive cars on. Much of the future opportunities for shipping can be found in residual products that can be made of fuel. Some parties have not quite understood that it is at home in the garage that you charge your electric car, not especially along the roads. That's where the infrastructure is already expanded. The conditions for those who need the car are in the countryside. It is the cities, with people living in apartments like myself, that have the biggest problems. We're gonna have a hard time changing. We must stop seeing rural areas as a problem and instead open up to all opportunities. There's a good January deal. When we reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and increase development throughout the country, it is not a question of rural aid. This is about a green transition. It is the city that is dependent on the countryside, not the other way round. We will do things that others want to copy or take advantage of. When we do the world's best aviation engines in Trollhättan, it gives an extra boost, not only because our own climate emissions are reduced, but because the world's climate emissions are reduced when the engines become more efficient. When we make biogas and make use of the entire cycle, another export system can be created. When our biorefineries can be built thanks to a clear forestry policy that puts ownership first, we can have a long-term reduction obligation and the investments required. As previous speakers have said, the climate issue is not the one who spends the most money but who gets the most results. There, the Center Party and the Alliance have previously been completely superior. Sweden's emissions have decreased when we have been in power. They don't anymore. Now Sweden's emissions are increasing. That's why it's so incredibly important that the Center Party was involved in taking responsibility. We took responsibility for achieving a climate policy that makes a difference. That is why the January Agreement is important. We have called for major reforms in the field of climate change, and we have got them through. We've made it clear that we're going to have a green deduction that works like ROT and RUT. When setting up solar panels, solar heating, a home battery or a charging box, the deduction should come directly on the invoice. We are not going to get the problems that we are now seeing with the PV support as the M-KD budget went through. People who have applied for that support have to wait a long time, and they should be lucky to get anything at all. We get a green car bonus; we tighten up the bonus – the malus system and make it more efficient and better, so that it makes an even clearer difference when buying and so that you can hopefully also get a bonus later. We are investing in negative emissions and in removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, as scientists say is absolutely necessary. We can be the world leader in this technology in Sweden. We will also make it easier to produce renewable energy for our own use. We're going to involve more people in this transition. It's incredibly important to bring more. We know solar panels and electric cars are contagious. One of the main reasons for someone's getting them is that someone else in the neighborhood has already done so. You have someone to refer to, someone to ask and maybe someone to brag about. We also get high-speed trains. But it is not just about passenger transport. There is an incredible deal about freight transport, which we often forget. Our railroad is full today. We can't transport any more on the railroad. We can't move so much more from trucks. We need new embankments. At the same time, we need longer and heavier vehicles, which solve the transport problems on wheels as long as they exist. My list of center victories is long. Most of our election manifesto is actually included in the January agreement. But if this is to be a warm cooperation, the government must deliver on all counts. I am concerned, because I already see signs that wordings on ownership in the forest are not being taken seriously and that budget lines are being communicated that are not negotiated. That, of course, is totally unacceptable. A government that does not deliver under contract does not have the support of the Center Party either. Note my words: I have no problem removing soss and environmentalists who do not live up to what we agreed. Of course, we are not satisfied with the January agreement. There's more. We're going to negotiate several times. Here there are many problems that need to be addressed. Exports of environmental cars are one of these. The fact that electric cars end up in Norway and gas cars end up in the Netherlands and Germany is of course unnecessary. Why should we export our environmental benefits there? It is clear that, for the sake of the climate, it does not play a major role, but that we are making efforts here that are then just exported is quite simply unnecessary. The Swedish biogas is competed out by Danish double-subsidised biogas. That, of course, is completely unreasonable. The production of domestic fuels has not started, much because of the uncertainty about ownership in the forest and the availability of raw materials. The January Agreement is an incredibly important key to getting this in place. However, the benefits of the green transformation are not just about the environment. Those of us who are involved in environmental issues easily get caught up in just talking about it. But the debate is so much more. It is high-level rural policy, as I have already mentioned. But that is also security policy. When Sweden and Lithuania built a power cable between each other, it was one of the best security policy measures we have taken in recent years, as Lithuania becomes less dependent on Russian oil and gas. And when we switch from that fossil oil to running on biofuels instead, we reduce our dependence on oil from rogue states such as Russia or Venezuela, from which we import large quantities of oil. We also have an increased level of self-sufficiency, which is important in times of crisis, when we cannot rely on all deliveries. This is also good business policy for AB Sweden. We get new companies, new innovations and new export opportunities. It gives jobs, businesses and tax revenue here, instead of sending it abroad. We have much of the raw materials required. Then we also need good rules for mining, so that we can get this out of the ground here in a sustainable way rather than doing it somewhere else on earth with, for example, child labour and poor environmental conditions. Then we also need rules that allow new mines to be opened in a sustainable way. Finally, this is also a health policy, because electric cars on our streets have reduced noise and particle emissions. With increased energy efficiency, we have also reduced mercury and sulphur emissions from coal power plants across Europe. We have also phased out mercury lamps now, but their introduction reduced mercury emissions precisely because it comes from coal power. This change is fantastic from so many perspectives, and we must also take these social benefits into account. A great deal of this is being realised, as I said in the January agreement, but there is still much to be done. The Center Party is the party that believes in technology development, in people's inherent power to do good and in green growth and entrepreneurship. It's the only way to really reset. We do not solve the problems in the world by reducing living standards and falling back. It is by looking forward that we solve the challenges. That's how we manage the climate.
i-77e323bcc0311778-807	Madam President, I would like The Left Party supports all our reservations, but for time-winning I only support our reservation 6 on consumption-based targets. The climate is changing right now. If we're gonna do something, we need to do it now. Today, we can begin to see with our own eyes what science has been warning about for so long. We know that a warmer climate means worse drought and more fires. We know that it causes increased sea levels and major floods. When we look back on our time in a few decades, that will be what we remember. There comes a time when those who are children today ask us what we did in these historic decades, and there is a time when many are worried for their own sake as well as for the future of their children and grandchildren. It is about creating a sustainable society that does not limit life opportunities for other people and for future generations. We do this by reducing emissions for those who have the greatest climate impact and by creating an economy for all, and not just for a few. The autumn budget became a cold shower for environmental and climate work, where, among other things, the protection of our nature was eroded and support for climate investments was destroyed. We now have before us an alliance between two blocs. Their agreement has several proposals for the environment that lead us towards a more ambitious climate policy. However, it is not enough in itself and in its entirety to solve all the problems ahead of us. We are now debating the report of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, which deals with climate change. There are several good proposals in it, but as a whole it is not enough. If we are to reach the Paris Agreement's 1.5°C target, we need to do so much more. When the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency presented its in-depth assessment of environmental objectives a few weeks ago, it was painfully clear that Sweden has failed. Sweden reaches one of the 16 national environmental objectives. Among other things, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report states with one year to reach the targets – that the instruments and measures needed to achieve the environmental objectives by 2020 are simply not there. They say that greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced at a faster pace, and they also highlight, among other things, the climate impact of consumption. For us, it goes without saying that for us to be able to cope with climate change, we need to change our consumption patterns. The Left Party, like a number of environmental organisations and stakeholders, wants to introduce a complementary target and concrete measures to reduce consumption-related emissions. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Sweden's consumption, including public services, construction of housing and infrastructure, accounts for emissions of about ten tonnes of greenhouse gases per person per year. Two thirds of these emissions occur in other countries, and aviation and meat consumption stand out as two areas with extra impact. The number of flights needs to be reduced, and it is only right that those who make up the bulk of flying also bear the costs. That's where we want to see a progressive flight tax. Today, 15% of the population accounts for 70% of all flights. It is not a question of removing opportunities to visit the family, it is a question of those who consistently use aviation as a means of transport having to pay for their climate impact and contribute to climate change. It is the richest who by their way of life cause the greatest climate emissions. That's why they're the ones who have to change their lifestyle the most. Meat consumption goes down in Sweden, but it does so from high levels. The average Swedish eats about twice as much meat as the global average, and a large proportion of the meat we consume is imported. Our total meat consumption needs to be reduced, and a larger percentage of meat should be produced in Sweden. It provides benefits for climate, environment and self-sufficiency. It is also important that we see increased investments in the production of sustainable plant-based food. The Left Party wants Sweden to introduce targets to reduce consumption-based emissions. The same conclusion is drawn by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in its in-depth evaluation a few weeks ago, which believes that targets and strategies for consumption-based emissions are needed. In the shadow of the urgent need to deliberately reduce the climate and environmental impact of consumption, it is remarkable that the committee does not follow the Left Party's line on this issue. This also includes the discussion on environmentally harmful subsidies. It is not reasonable that there are subsidies today that make it unattractive to switch to fossil-free agriculture. Reduced taxation on fossil fuels is one such subsidy; tax and VAT relief for aviation is another. Both the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have made the assessment that the subsidies needed should instead be designed as environmental support. But it is also important that we start from the environmental impact when we develop new forms of subsidies. The potential environmentally harmful subsidies here in Sweden were estimated in 2017 at SEK 60 billion, and according to a decision by the European Commission, environmentally hazardous subsidies will be phased out by 2020. Sweden has to keep up. This is also included as one of the conclusions of the Environmental Protection Agency's in-depth report and is thus an important part of achieving more than one of the national environmental objectives. Finally, I would like to stop at the social aspects of environmental and climate work. For us, it is obvious to see that society is connected as a whole where all parts affect each other. Therefore, it is important for us to talk about climate justice: who affects, and who is affected by climate change? We know that our present system distributes earth's resources distorted between classes, between rich and poor countries and, in connection with patriarchal structures, between men and women. The world's rich people have caused climate change and have continued to have the greatest impact on the climate. The richest tenth represents 45% of world emissions, while the poorest half of the population accounts for 13% of emissions. Those affected, on the other hand, are the world's poor. The United Nations Convention on Climate Change therefore states that it is the rich countries that have the historic responsibility to reduce their emissions and, at the same time, to provide support to others affected by climate change. It is important to see that we must act within our environmental space. Every person and every country has a certain space to move within, and the boundaries of the environment, nature and climate cannot be stretched like a rubber band. Two thirds of our emissions occur in a country other than Sweden. If all the people in the world were to consume the resources we're doing here, we'd need at least four globes. It is not reasonable for our overconsumption to hinder the development of others. We also know that an equal society is a successful society. In the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's latest evaluation, they highlight social sustainability as a key factor in achieving the goals. Among other things, they write that a large gap within a country has proved to go hand in hand with ecological destruction. They feel that the increased welfare of some must be followed by increased knowledge. Instead, it is now increasing the pressure on our natural resources, and economic inequality is a contributing factor in our failure to achieve environmental objectives. Or as we in the Left Party usually put it: It is important to have an economy for everyone, not just for a few.
i-77e323bcc0311778-824	Madam President, I would like I think it was reservation 22 that Elin Segerlind intended to approve, because reservation 6 is ours. Of course, it would be very nice to get extra approval for it. Elin Segerlind makes a very nice speech in many ways. However, it contains much of the problem description and very little real action. Let me then highlight a measure proposed by the Left Party, namely kilometre tax. My question to Elin Segerlind is: How do you really expect this kilometre tax to work in relation to the rest of society? Forest research has shown that it loses between 5 and 10 percent of the forest raw material in the forest if you introduce the kilometer tax. It is therefore precisely the forest raw material needed to make these biofuels that we need for the green transition. Sadly, the train does not go out to every bush. If we're gonna get this stuff out of the woods, we also need something to travel on rubber wheels. And if we are to change today's fleet, we need biofuels, not least in Swedish forests. A car lives on average for 17 years. Many of the cars rolling out of Volvo today will live in the 2040s. They need fuel that works in current engines, and then the Swedish forest is absolutely crucial. How, Elin Segerlind, do you really get your calculations together if you want to take less out of the woods to cope with the climate? That's the effect of the mileage tax.
i-77e323bcc0311778-829	Madam President, I would like I'm not sure now, because I've written reservation 6 a.m. here in my papers. If that is not the case, please allow me to come back to this. As far as the kilometre tax is concerned, it was not something I mentioned in my speech, nor is it something that I have the expertise about. I am not on the Transport Committee and am still so new as a Member that I do not have 100% control of all our questions. We can talk about something else, if Rickard Nordin wants to.
i-77e323bcc0311778-832	Madam President, I would like Now it was precisely biofuels and how we are going to get things out of our forest if we praise away what was my question. We need the biofuels to reset. So I am happy to keep to that question, even though the honourable Member has now kindly given me the opportunity to talk about something else.
i-77e323bcc0311778-833	Madam President, I would like Biofuels are also not an area that I have great knowledge of when it comes to where we stand. But in general, we want the forest to be used. It's obvious. There is no scenario where we see that we should stop using the forest as a resource. I think we are quite agreed here that we will have a growing need for the forest to be used, and then, of course, we will have to resolve the problems that come with this. Rickard Nordin said there's no train in every bush, and that's true of course. Therefore, we would perhaps prefer to see money spent on upgrading and also expanding the railways – not only between our big cities, but also in rural areas and, above all, perhaps in our sparse parts of Norrland and, as Rickard Nordin mentioned in his speech, in order to be able to use for freight transport. I am thinking mainly of the mines and the forestry industry. Of course, it's very important. As far as the question of biofuels is concerned, I am obliged to answer it.
i-77e323bcc0311778-836	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I would like to call for reservation No 31 on a national plan for the development of aviation fuels. The climate challenge is highly global, and in addition to responsible national emission reduction commitments, joint efforts are required internationally. By showing that it is possible to combine low emissions with good economic development, Sweden can help to break the international myth of the opposite. Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time and requires regional, national and global solutions. Dependence on fossil fuels is both a burden on the environment and, as we heard earlier, a security policy risk. European dependence on Russian gas contributes to CO2 emissions and to instability. Several EU countries have not switched from coal dependence while others have increased their dependence on fossil sources by shutting down nuclear power or investing too little in renewable sources. Sweden will push for the EU to be a global example of climate and environmental policy. We in Sweden account for 1 per mil of the world's climate emissions and the EU for 9%. Our most important contribution to the global work on climate change is therefore to influence large emitters such as the United States and China. Climate policy must be driven by the ambition to show the outside world that conversion is possible without damaging competitiveness. A poor, inefficient and expensive climate policy risks harm, also because of the signals it sends out to the outside world. The CO2 tax on fossil fuels and a developed emissions trading system in the EU are effective instruments for reducing emissions and improving the climate. The EU's emissions reduction and energy efficiency targets play a central role in the fight against environmental degradation and climate change. The Christian Democrats have long been the driving force for developing emissions trading within the EU, ETS, which is a cost-effective tool for achieving climate targets. The system currently covers the industrial sector and energy production, which together account for around 45% of emissions in the EU. We believe that the emissions trading system should be gradually extended to other transport sectors and other sectors of society with high emissions that are not yet participating in the scheme, such as households, agriculture and non-industrial industries. Madam President, I would like Sweden currently has very low CO2 emissions from energy consumption, i.e. the emissions that come from the use of electricity and heat in industry and households. This is because a large part of the Swedish industry's electricity supply comes from nuclear and hydropower. However, major challenges remain in the transport sector to significantly reduce emissions of carbon dioxide, particulate matter and other environmental pollutants. Policy initiatives are therefore needed to reduce emissions from traffic. Heavy road traffic is a major source of CO2 emissions. An increased share of renewable fuels is desirable and that is why we want to stimulate investments in the production and distribution of biofuels. Long-term market rules are needed for investment. At the same time, the trend towards electric power in heavy traffic needs to be encouraged. The costs of electrifying the main motorways should therefore be investigated and the main elements of such electrification clarified. So, from the Christian Democrats' side, we see both biofuels and electrification as an important part of the transition from fossil fuels. Among other things, we need to invest in nuclear power and in the Swedish power grid. In addition, we have an effect need, not least linked to storage. If we're going to get through the peaks in the winter, we're going to have to go further. Madam President, I would like The Swedish forest binds carbon during its growth and therefore helps to extract carbon from the atmosphere. Forests have the potential to make great climate benefits by replacing fossil fuels from forest raw materials. This is also noted by the Environmental Target Committee with representatives from seven parliamentary parties. The exploitation of forest raw materials in Sweden can increase while achieving environmental objectives. The public sector has a great opportunity to influence the emissions of CO2 and environmental pollutants through the procurement of both services and goods, not least of food. Public procurement, driven by sustainability values and based on a thorough life cycle analysis, benefits both climate and product quality. Public procurement should therefore take into account factors such as environmental and climate impacts. Effective social planning is of course of great importance. This applies, for example, to smart public transport and incentives for more walking and cycling, but also to the development of new technologies and broadband capacity that enable remote work to a much greater extent. Cycling has great development potential with both good environmental and climate effects and health effects. In TU's debate here earlier today we could see that the cycle really engages. The cycle must be seen more clearly as its own mode of transport and be given higher priority in urban planning and infrastructure investment. It has been shown that when this happens cycling also increases significantly. Madam President, I would like Finally, we also have other dimensions to take in and highlight, namely both social and geographical. Everyone, despite bonus systems, cannot afford to buy a new environmentally friendly fossil-free car. Sweden is also a country that largely consists of rural areas where you are dependent on the car. There is no public transport to take. According to transport companies, people who drive a car in rural areas account for 180% of their costs, while those who drive a car in urban areas account for only 80 percent of their costs. Madam President, I would like Now Swedes are not known for our heated temperament, but continue to punish the countryside with the help of environmental taxes without giving back in the form of a substantial green tax shift, the burdens in rural areas and rural residents become unreasonably heavy in comparison with those of other citizens. It is not fair and risks creating, in the long run, bitterness and aversion to politics. We see that in other parts of the world. Without the countryside and what the countryside gives, the cities would stop, and soon. That is why it must be a green tax shift, which has been one of the KD's responses to climate issues for many years.
i-77e323bcc0311778-852	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 16 on the direction of Swedish climate policy and reservation 34 on consumption measures. In addition to that, the Liberals have taken three specific opinions on how we view the EU's climate action, national climate investments and efficiency of the biofuels issue, Elin Segerlind. Madam President, I would like To deal with the Liberals' climate policy in a speech cannot be done simply, thank God. I will therefore address only the major issues. Otherwise, I may refer to our motions. Should I try to boil down the essence of how Liberals view it take, it is that the situation is critical. We need to act now and tackle climate and environmental challenges with a mix of crisis insight, confidence in the future and realism. Science and technology development find solutions. The market economy and free trade, not politicians or prohibition policies, are driving forward smart sustainable solutions. Digitisation and sharing economy pave the way for new and climate-smart consumption patterns. Electric vehicles change the entire automotive industry. The energy industry is changing. Investments in fossil energy do not pay off. New jobs and markets are emerging. And Sweden is well ahead when it comes to environmental and climate work. This is something we should use and of course do to a competitive advantage. Above all, it is important that there is a broad political consensus in Sweden behind these issues. Seven of the eight parties in the Riksdag agreed on the environmental target committee's objectives. Only in this way can we act clearly as a nation, in Europe and in the world. Sweden must show leadership. Sweden can show that it is possible to combine prosperity and growth with responsibility for the environment and climate. Instead of short-term and expensive subsidies and subsidies, the Liberals want to see more green tax exchanges for real. The tax on jobs and entrepreneurship is to be reduced, while at the same time it will cost more to pollute. Therefore, for example, we want to remove tax subsidies on fossil fuels – all in accordance with the Paris Agreement. We, as the only party, have consistently pursued this line when other parties, in the midst of the ongoing climate crisis, have campaigned to reduce diesel tax. The red-green government even increased the tax relief on diesel in agriculture, which we strongly questioned at the time. With the January agreement, we are taking a step in the right direction. It is clear to us Liberals that the climate requires more of us politicians. We must dare to make unpopular decisions to save the climate and the future. To think that today certain electoral groups are protected by compromising on the climate will ultimately only mean a guaranteed voter's pace, for all of us at the end of the day. The climate threat knows no bounds. But neither do the solutions, thank God. The climate requires more EU cooperation. As the most pro-European party, the Liberals want to see a common European CO2 tax and a common aviation tax, which must be put in relation to an improved emissions trading system. We welcome the work at EU level on a plastic strategy, including the prohibition of certain disposable articles made of non-recyclable plastics. We also want to see a plastic levy on non-recycled plastic in EU countries. It would push the countries in the right direction. The EU must also continue to phase out hazardous chemicals and pesticides, as well as other environmental and nature measures throughout the EU. We welcome the January agreement point that Sweden should push for a climate law at EU level and that rules on state aid and other support schemes should be reformed in order not to undermine the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Madam President, I would like It is no news that the Liberals have been very critical of the government's efforts under the heading Climate Change. The Swedish National Audit Office has also agreed with this criticism. Loss of tax revenue in many small operations, which in some cases only lock up consumers and industry, can in fact hinder real environmental development. There is a need for a more holistic approach to economic instruments, and we believe that market-driven labelling and certification of goods that simplify people's choices on climate-smartness is a sensible step. People want to do the right thing if they just know how. Finally, I can say that I belong to the generation that grew up thinking that everything is getting better with electricity and that electricity is a never-ending source. It is also a source from which Sweden has built its wealth to a large extent. But now we know that the world's electricity generation needs to be changed and that the transition to a climate-smart society is based on using more fossil-free electricity. Sweden needs climate smart, emission-free and secure electricity supply at competitive prices. We already have lower-emission electricity production, thanks to hydropower, nuclear power and renewable electricity, while many other EU countries, for example, are dependent on coal and gas. For us liberals, it is crucial that electricity generation is fossil-free and that the expansion should be driven by the market and built when it is needed and where it is needed. Socio-economically, it is much cheaper to punish what is going away rather than subsidise what is going in. Renewable electricity generation is to be welcomed, but it should be a means of achieving cheap and environmentally friendly electricity generation and not an end in itself. Liberals have long advocated nuclear power as a reliable, clean source of energy. Nuclear power is also needed for the sake of climate change, as the UN Panel on Climate Change is now highlighting. That is also why the Liberals could not support the energy agreement. We believe that we need to maintain nuclear power and welcome its development. We want to tear up the decision on 100% renewable electricity system by 2040 to replace it with a target on fossil-free electricity generation. That's what's really important. Anyone who thinks something else can come to my house and look out over Denmark. There you can also look out over Germany. Despite huge investments in renewable energy, they have become increasingly dependent on coal and gas once nuclear power has been shut down. This, my friends, is anything but climate smart.
i-77e323bcc0311778-869	Madam President, I would like Our house is on fire, just like Greta Thunberg said in Davos the other week. She's absolutely right about that. Our House of Parliament is on fire, and we should act as if it actually is. In the atmosphere, a few miles above us, greenhouse gases are growing. If we do not act, the changes in the climate may soon be disastrous and, indeed, irreversible. We're doing too little, and we're doing it too slowly. Despite record budgets around the climate and despite a very good January agreement on the climate, we need to do much more here. Young people in Sweden expect more from us. Greta Thunberg expects much more of us. All of you in here who have children-- it's your kids who are going to suffer because we're wasting and because we're not taking responsibility. In many ways we treat the environment and climate as a credit card. We live on borrowed assets, and it is our children who have to pay both the bill and the interest when the climate credit card debt comes. Our young people must be able to expect more from those of us who are elected. The climate issue is too important for partisanism or quarrels about individual issues. It is now about our survival. Madam President, I would like We already know everything we need to know to justify the decisions on the transition. The discussion should be over. The debate should also be over. There's nothing else to discuss but how we're doing the transition. It is not about when or about; it is already done. The climate issue will be resolved if we all take responsibility. Close cooperation will be required between policy, research, industry and civil society as well. What could the next step be? Yes, the Climate Act and the January Agreement are two important steps along the way. Let us carry them out! But what comes next? Yes, much more will be required of us in the work ahead. The climate budget is around 10 billion. That's not even 1% of the state budget. In view of the extensive change that we need to make, it is not serious for us in here not to give more priority to climate work. We have to think new, and we have to think big. In the United States, the people and politicians are now pushing forward a gigantic program called The Green New Deal. It can feel strange. In this pulpit, the United States is often used as a negative example, and this can be done with Trump and the Republicans. But right now, 80 percent of the U.S. population is actually behind The Green New Deal. It is the democrats and their sympathizers, but also the majority of the Republicans' sympathizers are behind this. You realize the seriousness, and you feel that you need to do something thorough in society. The Green New Deal is a comprehensive conversion programme that dares to set the target just as high as is actually required. I would say, of course, that we also need a Swedish Green New Deal. Let us parties together produce one of these in the coming time. Let us not bicker about small issues or about a percentage here or there, but let us get to grips with this for real – together. Maybe we need a reassignment department. Perhaps the changes that we are going to make are so big and so thorough in society that it is not enough for some of the leaders in some committee to work a little bit on the climate issue. Maybe we all have to work on the question. Perhaps we need to have a climate committee in Parliament that can work on this in particular. Then we suddenly have more elected representatives in the Riksdag who are working on this issue. These are profound changes that determine mankind's survival. We have to take this seriously. Perhaps we need to create a transformation forum together with industry and research so that we can work very closely together on these issues in order to achieve the result in as short a time as possible. And why can't Sweden, which is already a role model in the world on climate issues, for example, take the initiative for a Climate League with countries that are already ahead and who want to take initiatives to be ahead of the transition? Why can't we help in climate work around the world in that way? Madam President, I would like It is also time that we take our own responsibility here in Parliament. It is about us as Members taking responsibility, not through political proposals, but through how we ourselves act and act in our work. We cannot demand that people reduce their flying and ride more trains if we do not do so ourselves. We have to live as we learn. It is vitally important that we, as elected representatives, live as we learn. Of course it can be hard to change. We're not gonna be fooled. This conversion will be very difficult. But even if it's hard, it's our responsibility to solve it. If it takes too long to take the train here, it is our responsibility, for example, to build high-speed trains. If it is required for parliamentary work today, it is our responsibility to change the working methods of parliamentary work, for example, so that we work every two weeks here and every other week at home in the constituency, so that we do not have to fly here. Madam President, I would like In fact, our house is on fire, and we can do something about it. We're gonna do something about it. Israeli author and peace activist Amos Oz describes action – doing something. He takes one example: a house is on fire. It's quite telling in this case, because our house is on fire. If a house is on fire, Amos Oz believes that a person can act in three ways. The first option is that people run in panic from the house and don't care about the people who can't walk by themselves. The second option is that humans write a very irritated and angry sender to decision-makers to set them against the wall. The third option is that man picks up a bucket of water and pours the water on the fire. If there's no bucket of water, maybe there's a glass of water. And if there's no glass of water, maybe there's a teaspoon. We all have a teaspoon. And if we all contribute only one teaspoon of water, we will actually be able to extinguish the fire. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-77e323bcc0311778-889	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Manhammar, for your speech. I very much appreciate the genuine commitment. At the same time, we can see that Swedish emissions have increased in recent years. Given that the climate threat is real and that action must be taken here and now, it is nonetheless serious. Together with heavy bodies, such as the Institute of Economics and the National Audit Office, we on the part of the Moderates have made a great deal of criticism about the policy that the Red-Green Government has pursued, because it has simply not delivered results. We can see that, for example, the Institute of Economic Development has condemned seven out of eight of the government's actions as ineffective. Our view is that the climate cannot afford or time for that kind of symbolic policy. Then I have questions for Magnus Manhammar. I do not doubt the good ambitions of the government, but is there any self-criticism in this area? Does Magnus Manhammar take seriously the lack of results, the fact that developments are going in the wrong direction and that many of the expert institutes are, after all, judging several of the measures? Will we see a new thought in the future with the new government? Will climate benefits be given priority over symbolic policies and, in some cases, the number of crowns as the sole yardstick? And what does Magnus Manhammar say about the proposal from the Moderates to produce computational conventions for climate benefit and about the government to present the estimated climate benefit in the future when making various proposals in the field of climate change?
i-77e323bcc0311778-892	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the question! It is incredibly important, and I am grateful that we can discuss it even more. That is, in fact, the most important issue we have to discuss in this House, so I am glad that we can devote time to it. I share Jessica Rosencrantz' view that this is a serious development. The developments that have taken place in the last term of office and the previous terms of office have been serious all along. We have a development of the planet that is very serious. The IPCC says that we now have about ten years before there are serious consequences and we have over one and a half degrees increase in the average temperature. Of course, I think this is serious. I do not think that any less is needed from the government's previous policy. Of course, it can be ensured that certain proposals become sharper. We have seen some of the criticisms that have existed, and that can certainly be taken on board. I think this is great. But above all, more is needed. There is too little climate policy, there is too little environmental policy and there is too little policy to preserve biodiversity. I think it is good if the Moderates make proposals; I welcome this. I also welcome discussions with the Moderates on what proposals we can make together. Again, there are not too many proposals on how to save the climate, but there are too few. Please contact us with more suggestions! We will be happy to discuss with you as long as you do not take the Swedish Democrats with you.
i-77e323bcc0311778-896	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Manhammar, for the serious answer! I welcome what I interpret as some self-criticism between the lines and that things can always be done better. After all, there has been a great deal of criticism of the government's policy, and I welcome the ambition and the good will. I really believe that this discussion and debate would serve to look more at what measures are being taken. We will see in the future what the effect of the January agreement will be and what the government will put on Parliament's table. I have already seen some trends, such as the waste incineration tax, which many experts judge because it does not provide the improved use of resources that was intended. Even the government's own investigators have condemned it. We are now having a discussion on green tax exchange, which I welcome in principle, but it is clear that some clarification remains from the government. So far, 3 billion of the planned tax increase has been presented, but 12 billion remain. Who are they? And in the second balance, what taxes do you intend to lower? There, the details of a good principle of green tax exchange will be important. Again, I welcome the fact that there is some self-criticism from the government and, if so, look forward to it giving an impression in the future. I did not quite understand the answer from Magnus Manhammar about the Moderates' proposal to draw up computational conventions and demand that policies in this area should present the effects and climate benefits when political proposals for the climate are delivered, so that we get away from symbolic policies and get concrete measures. Magnus Manhammar is happy to answer if he thinks this is a good idea.
i-77e323bcc0311778-903	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think it is great that we can discuss this way. Of course, we have no problem with the fact that we are counting on proposals and trying to develop models for the effectiveness of the proposals. There is nothing negative in this, and we welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's reports in several areas. Feel free to push, and come up with more suggestions! It would be very good if we could do this together. Again, this question is too important for us to bicker about things. It must be taken to another level where we, all the parties, put forward proposals together in order to achieve this. The IPCC is among the most important to listen to in this case. They are already saying, based on the climate action that the world's countries are doing – some countries are doing an unexpected amount – that more than five times more climate action is needed to meet the challenges we face in the near future, for the next ten years. Again, there are not too few proposals, but they are simply too few. When it comes to different taxes and criticisms of things, there are many special interests in environmental policy. By special interests, I mean above all companies that make a lot of money from different things. Many companies, for example, benefit greatly from destroying the environment. Then I think it is good that we are taxing them in different ways but also that we are trying to help them change. We are in favour of business and growth, but it should be sustainable growth. We don't have a problem. We may criticize some taxes and make them better. Green tax exchange was also mentioned. We have this in the January agreement, which we are pleased to have together with the Centre Party and the Liberals. It is a serious proposal that is coming, and we will look at it. It is not finished yet, but it will be 15 billion in tax exchange that we hope will help all people to afford to both work and live climate smart. I hope that this can lead to a better future. Thank you for asking.
i-77e323bcc0311778-910	Madam President, I would like There were many big and nice words from Magnus Manhammar. Of course, it is welcome that the Social Democrats are also waking up a little on this issue. It was said that things are going too slowly and that responsibility is not being taken into account. Then the rhetorical question comes back: Who has been in government? Who should have taken responsibility, especially when we have increased emissions, if not the Social Democrats and the Green Party? That's where the responsibility lies. However, in order to take this down and talk about proposals, as Magnus Manhammar called for, the Center Party has for several years been pointing out that we are living with an outdated environmental car definition. Now it is so serious that since 1 July we have no one at all. This is even worse, because it creates uncertainty in procurement, the regulatory framework suffers and we increase our emissions, completely unnecessarily. Why, Magnus Manhammar, has the government done nothing about this issue? It would have been handled years ago, and nothing has yet been done. Now we don't have anything at all. Why is that?
i-77e323bcc0311778-913	Madam President, I would like I was asked why the government has not done anything about the definition of environmental cars. I can't answer that question exactly, but I say this: If you want something done, Rickard Nordin, let's do it! Let's do it next week or the week after, and we'll make sure we change it together. After all, we have a cooperation now that is quite close, with the January agreement, so let us change that. I don't have a problem with that. We even have the ambition, hopefully as a country, to ensure by 2030 that we no longer have new sales of fossil fuel driven cars. There is really reason to look at this issue, and I think it is great. I hope we don't have to ralli with each other, say it's big and nice words but nothing serious or talk about who's been in government and blaming each other. Then I can blame Reinfeldt a lot, and then you can blame Stefan Löfven a lot back and forth. But that doesn't mean we're saving the climate. Again: If you come up with suggestions if we can change the definition, it's great. Let us do that kind of thing so that we are leading climate policy forward and working for it, not bickering about it. Let's save the planet together.
i-77e323bcc0311778-916	Madam President, I would like Now the emissions in Sweden decreased during the alliance government and Fredrik Reinfeldt. These are pure facts and are not about bickering, but about looking at what has had an effect and not. To get back to the subject matter, the Center Party has proposed that we have a stronger bonus – the Malus system and that we should set the limit for environmental cars to receive bonuses in the system. That is not something we need to work together on, but just to implement. The big question is why the Social Democrats and the Green Party have not done this. That should have been done a long time ago. It creates uncertainty in procurement and increases our emissions. If there is someone who obviously has not been able to agree, it is the government internally. Why else haven't they delivered here? I would like an answer to that from Mr Manhammar.
i-77e323bcc0311778-919	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question and the comment. I could stand here and discuss and say that there was recession and that it was because of it and many other things. It was certainly part of the explanation, but again that is not what is important. The important thing is how we look forward and what proposals we have. I welcome the proposals mentioned by the honourable Member. Let's start implementing some of them. I don't think I have much more to say.
i-77e323bcc0311778-922	Madam President, I would like Magnus Manhammar sounds a bit like a dystopic climate alarmist who is suffering from panic. It is a fundamental problem today that climate policy measures are formulated on the basis of a state of panic, because if you suffer from panic, you probably do not make well-founded decisions. Then it will be very bad climate policy, as the government's own expert bodies the Council of Finance Policy and the Institute of Economic Development have stated. It is probably better to breathe a little, take it easy, at least for a while, analyze and then make well-balanced decisions. I was going to go into so-called green tax exchange, as the new government base has presented. A lot of it is about things that certainly do not mean green tax exchange. It is taxes on consumer electronics, clothing, thermal power stations and other things, taxes that do not benefit the environment but benefit warehouse workers in Germany and German companies and hit Swedish district heating customers and workers. The most important thing is the exchange of taxes on fuels. To finance tax cuts to the most well-off in society – to urban residents who will not only receive reduced tax but will continue to receive 60 000 off their new Tesla – you should take money from rural areas, from people with a little less resources who need a car. This creates gaps in society. We take from low-income people and rural people and give to urban dwellers. How can a social democrat defend that policy?
i-77e323bcc0311778-926	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Martin Kinnunen! When it comes to the green tax shift to take place this term of office and the proposal to be drawn up is made through the January agreement. It's not finished yet, so it gets weird when Martin Kinnunen stands here and lists a number of different things that do not yet exist. I would like us to discuss things that exist. In the January agreement, it says this: a strong green tax shift will be carried out with increased environmental taxes that are exchanged for reduced tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. One thought behind that – based on what we have already heard from our party but also from C, L and MP – is that it should be a green tax shift that enables ordinary people, for everyone in our country, to live climate smart and environmentally well so that it does not become a class issue. That is exactly what this is about: moving forward on climate issues while at the same time creating stronger social sustainability in our country. It goes hand in hand – one gives the other. It is also discussed in the Paris Agreement. It is also connected at a global level. Thank you for the question and for giving me the opportunity to say this. I am not going to go after the Swedish Democrats in general, but I am grateful for that.
i-77e323bcc0311778-930	Madam President, I would like After all, much of this tax exchange is already known. We know to a large extent what taxes are to be reduced. The government has initiated investigations and presented initiatives. Last Sunday, the government's own environmental minister on television said that you should exchange taxes on fuel. One should reintroduce the automatic enumeration that we here in Parliament removed at the turn of the year. These are tax increases that hit the countryside while the tax cuts presented go to rich urban residents, who will also be able to continue to pick out 60 000 in discounts on their new Tesla – which is then exported to Norway so that even the Swedish secondary market can not take part of the discount. In what way is this a policy that closes the gaps and benefits the weak people in society? It is a waste of tax revenue, and it increases the gap.
i-77e323bcc0311778-933	Madam President, I would like Yes, things are happening with some of the proposals that we are not satisfied with. The fact that electric cars have been sold to Norway is perhaps not the most successful with the electric car premium. We agree, so we do not need to discuss it any more. We know it's a problem, and we want to get to it. That may not be the most important thing to discuss either, but it is of course a good thing that it is being highlighted. If there are problems, they should be solved and the proposals changed. We fully agree with that. As far as the exchange of taxes is concerned, many other proposals are being discussed in politics at the moment, absolutely. But they are not the ones that are part of the 15 billion tax exchange. The 15 billion in tax change is about getting to what Martin Kinnunen mentions. It is not about increasing the gaps or that people should not be able to live climate smart throughout the country but about keeping Sweden together. We stick together the climate work so that it is possible for everyone. I could stand here and review Sweden's democrats' climate policy in general, but I am not actually going to do that. Instead, I would like the Swedish Democrats to come up with many new proposals on how we can change this, how we can move forward in the climate work, and perhaps not just the proposals that have been made so far that we should try to make some kind of indulgence letter, that is to say that we should pay for other, poor countries to work with the climate. We will ensure that all countries do so. Then it is also our responsibility to have zero emissions. We have said that we should have zero emissions in 2045. I might think we should tighten the bow higher. But again: the Swedish Democrats! Come up with more concrete suggestions on how we can change here in Sweden and perhaps also globally!
i-77e323bcc0311778-936	Madam President, I would like It's tough to be late in a debate – you want to devote your entire speech to replicating with the others. I will not be able to do so, so let me start with this: The world's most ambitious climate policy is now saved. It is Sweden's climate policy – it is ranked as the world's best climate policy. This was at stake as late as last autumn, when the Parliament was going to vote on the budget. It stood and weighed: Should we have massive cuts in the climate area, or should we have investments? Are we going to use the tax as a controlling means of reducing emissions, or are we going to lower the tax on discharge? It was about 2.7 billion cuts from the outer right, and it was about the abolition and substantial reduction of taxes. The only way we have to regulate aviation emissions was by removing the air tax. So there are huge differences. When I say that we have the most ambitious climate policy in the world, it is not my words, but from the ranking lists that are produced globally. It is the CCPI from the organisations Germanwatch, Newclimate Institute and Climate Action Network. It is experts and environmental organisations from all over the world who have evaluated climate policy in all countries and landed that the best policy is by far the one we have in Sweden. I, who have been following climate policy for about ten years now, know that during the time of the Alliance, Sweden fell on these lists. We skimmed deep down the charts. Now we've worked our way up to first place. Through the January Agreement, we are saving this, and we are doing it together with our friends in S, C and L. We are friends precisely because everyone has achieved a lot of climate policy. In the case of the Center Party, it means much of the party's election manifesto. It may say something about their election manifesto, but above all I think it says something about the relationship they had with the other alliance parties because they did not get through much earlier. Now, as I said, we are saving this, and it means great changes for the work that is currently going on around the country. Let me take a few examples. In Dalarna, the gravel company Hellkvist Grus has gone from diesel to electricity. This saves 3 300 tonnes of carbon dioxide. District heat has been expanded in Norrbotten. Both in Luleå harbour and in Arvidsjaur, the heating systems have been changed, which contributes to CO2 reductions of 600 tonnes. On Gotland, Brogas AB invests in a biogas plant that reduces emissions by 3 600 tonnes. Many streams small. Norje Smidesfabrik AB in Blekinge wanted to stop oil burning in its processes and is now moving to pellet burning, which reduces emissions by 100 tonnes. These were four concrete examples of what climate change leads to. Climate change is, of course, the major investment programme for climate policy, and it is incredibly important for many of the slightly smaller but still significant emission reductions to be made around our country from municipalities and from companies. We saved that through the January agreement. This is an example of climate policy. In recent years, we have changed the policy from scratch by means of an incredibly long series of active reforms. It is about the change of fuel, about forcing more green into the idea, about ensuring that there are long-term conditions for investing in the green as well as about bonuses – malus, i.e. bonuses on climate-smart cars and a sharp tax increase on those who are climate-bad. While international assessors believe that this is the best climate policy in the world, I have noted a rather strange debate on efficiency. What is important to note is that I really have respect for wanting other initiatives. You might want the Climate Money and put it on something else that some assessor thinks would be more effective. But what I don't respect and can't understand is that you want to lower so much. What may be new to some here is that the environmental and climate budget still accounts for just over one per cent of the total state budget. Then we cannot reasonably say that the good percentage is going down – despite the fact that we doubled the environmental budget during the last parliamentary term. That we can say that just over 1% is too much and that we must reduce it radically, while being willing to spend money on hugely expensive motorway projects around our country, I do not understand. This causes the logic and the talk of efficiency to crust very falsely. If you are going to be crass, it is also that it costs to go ahead. Germany has already been mentioned twice in this debate as a deterrent. But only narrow-minded people think that Energiewende would somehow be bad for the climate. What the Germans have done is to contribute, through major investments in renewables – investments that have cost – to the incredibly rapid price reduction of renewable energy that we are seeing worldwide, which means that poor countries now have the opportunity to invest directly in renewable energy rather than detour via fossil fuels. This has been achieved by Germany, which is why it becomes incredibly strange when you smudge it and at the same time for the strange debate on efficiency. It costs to go ahead, and it is by being an example globally that Sweden can influence most. Now, Madam President, we are looking forward. The January agreement saved, as I have been into, what has been, but it is also looking forward to what is to come. There are very large parts of this that are really good climate policy. The first is, of course, a substantial train package. It includes investments in the Norrbotnia Line and new high-speed rail lines – something we really need not only to tax flights but also to provide an alternative. But we also have investments in a common ticketing system in Sweden and procurement of night trains to the continent. We give all train enthusiasts a good alternative in the near future. We're going to make the fleet more efficient, and we're going to decide on a stop-year for fossils. This is needed, and we will have to do so via the tax and by simply deciding on a ban on fossil fuels in Sweden. And we are going to do the same at European level. We are now trying green bonds to push the financial market in the right direction. We are developing a powerful package of flights, in which, first of all, it is, of course, a matter of maintaining air tax. This is incredibly important for the aviation debate not only to be about getting green in the tank but also about actually flying less. The air package also includes more green in the idea and also more consumer information. When buying a plane ticket, it should be clear what the consequences are for the climate. We continue to make strong investments in public transport, bicycle and public transport. The urban environment agreements remain in place. We're going to do a tax rate to promote bike commuting – enough important for the climate. We will make it easier for individuals to invest in renewable electricity, and we will make the powerful tax shift, which will be crucial for making it more profitable to do the right thing and cost more to release. And then we turn up the tempo and ambition level in both the bonus – malus and the fuel exchange. The transformation of the transports is three-part and is about three bs – the car, the fuel and the behaviour. Strong policies are needed for all three parts. Of course, we are going to stimulate car pools, because the way we drive today is neither climate smart nor efficient. Most car journeys are under five kilometres, of which 80 per cent are under three kilometres. It is not reasonable to sit alone in a car and drive these routes. Walking, cycling and public transport are alternatives, but also car pools. We are introducing a minimum requirement for climate calculation in construction. This is a sector that may not have been so much in the climate debate in the past, but which actually needs to shoulder its responsibilities and where there is a lot of emissions today. We will now introduce a target for reducing emissions from consumption. This is also an issue that has been lagging behind. Swedes' emissions from consumption have increased quite sharply, unlike national emissions, which have decreased. Finally, Madam President, global development is easily harsh and disheartened. There are some very disappointing elements: Trumps's actions, Bolsonaro who wants to devastate the rainforest and the global emissions that continue to go the wrong way. But as hard as you can get over it, you can feel just as hopeful that there are countries that actually show their feet and go ahead. As an environmental party, I am proud and happy, because we have set Sweden in a direction that means that we will continue to have the most ambitious climate policy in the world. I call for all motions to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved.
i-77e323bcc0311778-964	Madam President, I would like I continue my journey in taking the big words down to practical politics. Last year, exports of cars under the age of five increased by 107 per cent. There are figures showing that almost every third electric car after just a couple of years ends up in Norway. The development has long been the same for gas cars; they have ended up in the Netherlands and Germany. But the government has done nothing, Madam President. This is sad, because it means that the cars that come out on the Swedish roads go somewhere else and do their climate benefit. For the climate, it matters quite little. But if we want to achieve our climate goals, our efforts should remain in Sweden. How, Mr Lorentz, does the government intend to address the problem of exporting new electric and environmental cars to other countries?
i-77e323bcc0311778-967	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! I share the concern and think it is rather foolish that we have a policy that leads us to make things easier for others. We will of course take our responsibility and make sure that the cars that roll on the Swedish roads are as climate-smart as possible. In that sense, I share the concern. We should be clear that the new vehicle taxation introduced by the government came into force just over six months ago. So it has its effects now, and then we will see what happens. We have a broad agreement to tighten up the system. Personally, I think we need a system where bonuses may be awarded over a few years, or rules that say that you cannot export for a certain number of years. What I have historically been sceptical about, however, is the excessive, almost industrial, entry into the vehicle taxation issue that the Center Party has been pushing, namely that the bonuses should be very generous. Rather, I believe this is driving this development. Instead, such a system should be based first and foremost on the climate benefits of cars, and secondly on how we make them stay. Then I am not very interested in getting the same situation as in Oslo, where you have a flooded city center with a lot of cars. I don't want to go that way.
i-77e323bcc0311778-971	Madam President, I would like It's nice that Lorentz Tovatt shares my concern and reviews government policy as rather stupid. I think that's nice. However, I think there will be problems if Lorentz Tovatt sets up trade barriers. After all, we are part of a customs union, and export bans do not usually work very well in customs unions. But there are solutions. Mr Lorentz mentions exactly what is the proposal of the Center Party. It's nice that the Green Party has come to the realization that you might want to split the bonus on several occasions. We in the Center Party are saying that 30% should be paid out in year 4 instead, precisely because we are going to keep the cars in Sweden a little longer. The basic problem is that it is profitable to buy an environmental car in Sweden – now there is no environmental car definition, but I am talking above all about electric cars and gas cars – but not in the same way profitable to own them. Then it is about things that need to be corrected. There the Norwegians even tell us what we should do. They say that municipalities must be given the opportunity to offer free parking, that they must be able to get discounted or abolished congestion tax or that they must be able to drive in a bus lane where it is appropriate without hampering public transport. It is not a question of having many places for cars in the city centre. It's about the cars that are going to enter cities being the right type of cars. These are things that would make a difference to exports and make cars stop in Sweden. We still do not hear any very strong proposals from the Green Party and the government on how to do this. I had been looking forward to a discussion about this and not just a small comment that Lorentz Tovatt might personally be able to look at splitting this up. But I have not heard anything about what the government intends to do about this. This is a real problem and has been so for a long time, without the government having acted.
i-77e323bcc0311778-975	Madam President, I would like I'm used to Rickard Nordin swinging here and there with different expressions and picking cheap points. I'm used to that. But let me respond to this that bonus-malus would be stupid. So far, it's been a hell of a success. Climate-smart cars have increased massively in sales. Both petrol and diesel have fallen sharply. So it has been an incredible success. This is to be opposed to what existed before, namely Rickard Nordin's own system, which meant an environmental car definition that was very weak. Among other things, it led to the environmental car premium going to diesel cars. SEK 1.6 billion was pumped into diesel cars through the order that Rickard Nordin himself was behind. Then one might ask: What is really stupid in this context? Is it bonus – malus, which has been a huge success so far but which will need to be evaluated, or is it Rickard Nordin's system of mass subsidy diesel cars? I guess people have to decide for themselves. When it comes to being comfortable with cars in the city, which is what Rickard Nordin is after, it is interesting that he takes Oslo as an example. Only last autumn I was visiting the responsible municipal councillor in Oslo, and she said that this was a huge mistake on the part of Oslo. She said that Oslo now has a system where virtually every person owns more than one car. You have a fossil car that you drive in the countryside, and then you drive your electric car in town. The city centre has simply flooded with cars. The responsible municipal councillor in Oslo is currently rolling back this policy. She will introduce taxation on electric cars. She'll make it so they can't charge for free and so on. I think we should be very careful before we go forward with a policy of flooding our cities with cars. That would be shooting yourself in the foot real bad.
i-77e323bcc0311778-980	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lorentz Tovatt! The speech was more about what others do not do than about what Lorentz Tovatt himself wants to do. However, let me note that the current M and KD budget is higher than all the environmental budgets that have passed this House, apart from the government's election budget at the latest. It is also worth recalling that the budget is a whole. That is to say, if you look outside Category 20, you can see that in the budget we are spending an additional 1 billion on climate aid and a further 1 billion on green industries, which are crucial to the transformation that we need. There are many fine words from Lorentz Tovatt, but at the same time there is much that I have missed in government policy over the past few years. Lorentz Tovatt speaks hot for car pools. Nevertheless, we have had to wait for a definition of car pools that allow municipalities to reserve street land for car pools. Different parking fees for cars of different environmental classes have still not managed to cough up. Interest in heavier trucks, which can make our truck transport more efficient, has been non-existent. I have rarely heard the Green Party talk about electric roads, even though it could mean fossil-free truck transport. Aviation tax was very quick to introduce, but it was completely ignored that the parliament pushed for the incorporation of biofuels into aviation fuel. Now, hopefully, Maria Wetterstrand's investigation will finally come on this issue, but slowly it has gone on in many areas. Where is the bigger picture, I often wonder when I hear the Green Party representatives. You want to counteract all technology, it often sounds like. There's no Elflyg flight. Biofuels for air transport are not working. You do not see the green industries in the whole cycle; that perspective is never included in the policy of the Green Party. Where is the realization that the biofuel comes from the Swedish forest and that it must pay off to do forestry in Sweden? You have to get the forest out of the forest if we're going to make biofuels.
i-77e323bcc0311778-986	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the question! The first thing I shall comment on is precisely the issue of the budget. There is a reason why the budget voted by Jessica Rosencrantz in Parliament was the second highest environmental and climate budget in history. It was that we doubled the budget. We have done such an ambitious work on the environment and climate budget that your massive cut still means that it is the second highest. I will come back to the question I put in my speech: how is it justified, given that, despite doubling the environmental budget, it is still just over 1% of the total state budget, to make substantial cuts instead of simply redeploying the money for things that you see as more effective? Then I would like to comment quickly on this with climate aid. I have also followed this issue, including in the UN climate negotiations. What the Moderates do is, of course, they cut the total amount of aid, and then they throw back some coffee money. They take from the poor and give back to the poor, but they rename the pot. It's really a truth with modification. I should also like to mention something about what Jessica Rosencrantz herself raised very well in her speech, namely that we need to look at the transformation of transport in particular. Different people have different needs and conditions. In the countryside, the car is needed. I think most of us in here agree on that. But to reduce motorism in cities, the Moderates have almost always been opposed. The Moderates were against congestion taxes. Environmental zones are now making a huge scene of being against. I therefore have a question for Jessica Rosencrantz. Why does she not want to go along with her own politics and actually make that difference?
i-77e323bcc0311778-992	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lorentz, for the answers and the questions. I think that the budget should be seen as a whole. The additional billion to climate aid is just extra, additional funds, and that is incredibly important. To this can also be added 1 billion which we invest in the green industries. I know from previous debates that Lorentz Tovatt is concerned that we are importing about 90% of our biofuels. One might think it would be interesting to actually pursue a policy that makes it possible to produce Swedish biofuels. Unfortunately, we see in the area by area how the Environmental Party rather counteracts the possibility of getting profitability in Swedish forestry. The idea of making truck transport more efficient by means of heavier trucks, for example, so that the timber can actually be recovered from the forest. We can always stand and punch each other in the head with figures, but when expert authorities consider that seven out of eight of the government's actions in the field of climate change have been ineffective, it might lead to some reflection. Perhaps you should reconsider and not just stand and talk crowns, for it does not save the climate. Much needs to be done in the field of transport. As I said in my speech, I live in the City of Stockholm and have a life situation. If you live in the countryside, you have a different life situation. On the other hand, I believe that people in cities will also need the car in the future, but then effective measures are needed to reset these cars. There, this government has dragged its feet in the case of car pools or other instruments such as different parking fees depending on the environmental class. We can probably agree on a lot, but that has not happened enough on the part of the government. Then I want to correct Lorentz Tovatt. This government has pursued a rather anti-rural policy. The increases in fuel taxes that you introduced are hitting the countryside, where you need the car to get there.
i-77e323bcc0311778-999	Madam President, I would like The alleged extra billion that Jessica Rosencrantz points out is not additional, but it is part of the Moderate financial framework for aid money. It does not increase with the extra billion. I'm sorry to inform you of that. As far as investments in biofuels are concerned, I think Jessica Rosencrantz is raising an important issue. We currently import about 90% of all biofuels used here in Sweden. It's untenable. What Jessica Rosencrantz does not mention is that it is this government that has taken the measures that will now increase domestic production. There are therefore multibillion-dollar investments due to the reduction obligation imposed by the government. The Alliance government tried to introduce it, but it was not possible to do so. In order for this to be possible – and it is perhaps a little bit over-price – it cannot be an entirely free space for the absolutely disgusting bio-fuel, namely palm oil. When this government introduced the reduction obligation, it was very careful that we should not let in the very worst biofuels here. We are not going to let in the worst possible, namely palm oil. But then the Alliance and SD were run over in committee. This makes it more difficult for Swedish companies that really want to invest in biofuels to be able to do so. Unfortunately, the question therefore goes back to Jessica Rosencrantz : Why continue to want palm oil, PFAD, in Swedish fuel?
i-77e323bcc0311778-1003	Madam President, I would like It is now 7:32 p.m. on February 14, 2019. We have 412 ppm of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. We live in a climate crisis and in a mass extinction of species. Yet politicians do not act enough. As we stand here tonight and tell each other which way is best to move forward, we miss the goal. We hear about how to patch and fix instead of dealing with the basis of the problem. Madam President, I would like We cannot be content with changing fuel or buying echoes, but we must work to reduce the need and to reduce the overall pressure on the planet as quickly as possible and as much as possible. We must adapt to the boundaries of the planet rather than to economic goals. Nature's limits cannot be compromised, and for us to have a chance, we must protect and strengthen our ecosystems. Madam President, I would like Therefore, we cannot just believe that nature should be an infinite resource that can be industrialized and provide us with biofuels from endangered forests or fish from endangered species. It will crash our chances of having a living planet for future generations. Sometimes I think that our biggest obstacle to preserving nature is that it offers completely free services, because we value monetary values higher than priceless and vital values. That is why we need to adapt our economy to our ecology. As long as we can't imagine stopping making the maximum amount of money on what destroys the planet, so long we'll never be able to afford to save the world. Madam President, I would like We politicians must dare to say no to economic special interests that impoverish our ecosystems and our ability to tackle the climate crisis. It is here that we must dare to say no to economic interests and not just to look at short-term interests in order to truly safeguard the opportunities of future generations to also carry out activities. Somewhere there, we need to start building a sustainable economy and sustainable societies for real.
i-77e323bcc0311778-1008	Madam President, I would like I just want to say that the Left Party is in favour of reservation 22 on consumption-based targets that limit our emissions both within and outside Sweden's borders. Thank you, my committee colleagues, for your help!
