i-d021fa48987c4062-3	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what efforts I intend to make to break the social isolation of women in socio-economically vulnerable suburbs and whether the government intends to invest in research into immigrant women's living conditions and their position in the labour market and in society. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked whether the government intends to carry out any educational measures, so that women with lower education or no schooling at all in their home country, in unemployment or in social isolation can receive CSN grants to learn Swedish or be covered by other labour market measures adapted to their situation. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked what measures the government intends to take to give foreign-born women in vulnerable suburbs a chance of the various actions of the labour market now that the employment services are disappearing and there is a risk that this target group will become even more isolated in their areas. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked what measures the government intends to take to give foreign-born women in vulnerable suburbs a chance of the labour market's various efforts now that the employment services are hit by substantial cuts. Finally, Amineh Kakabaveh has asked what measures the government is planning to take to ensure that this target group enters the labour market more quickly and does not become even more isolated. The Swedish labour market is strong, and the demand for labour is good. Since autumn 2014, more than 350,000 people have a job. Two thirds of the employment growth has occurred among foreign born children, of whom approximately 105 000 are women and about 130 000 are men. Women who have recently arrived also come to work more quickly, which is a positive thing. However, major challenges remain, not least with regard to the establishment of women born abroad in the labour market. The employment and self-sufficiency of many more women born abroad is a high priority. The Government believes that both women and men on the part of society should be met by the same expectations and given the right conditions to support themselves and stand on their own feet through entry into the labour market. The January Agreement therefore stresses the need for a clear gender perspective in all measures of establishment. New arrivals will enter the labour market faster and an intensive year will be introduced. The knowledge of honor-related violence will increase, and the crimes of honour will be stopped. There are a number of ongoing research initiatives on the situation of women born abroad in Sweden. IFAU has been tasked in its 2019 regulatory letter with monitoring the development of the overall social security system for different groups of foreign born. The European Social Fund finances research projects dealing with women born abroad, such as the Equal Establishment project 2018 – 2021 with a budget of SEK 287 million. A new regulatory framework for the establishment of newcomers in working and social life entered into force on 1 January 2018. The new regulatory framework strengthens the Swedish Public Employment Service's ability to provide the right responses based on the individual's needs, while at the same time clarifying the requirements for the individual. In the context of the new regulatory framework, training obligations for newcomers were also introduced. The education obligation means that a new arrival who has a short education, and is therefore not deemed to be able to work during his/her time in the establishment programme, should mainly engage in education. Any person who does not apply for an assigned training, rejects a training course or does not participate in such training will be able to be warned or suspended from the establishment allowance. Today, there is also the opportunity to study, with continued activity support, the equivalent of a maximum of one year of full-time studies at basic and upper secondary level for the unemployed who are enrolled in the Job and Development Guarantee. There are also opportunities for municipal adult education in Swedish for immigrants or equivalent education at folk high school or education within the school system at basic or upper secondary level for those who are long-term immigrants. During the last term of office, a start-up grant was also introduced. Start-up support aims to increase recruitment for studies among some unemployed with short education or high training needs in order to strengthen their ability to enter the labour market. So far, around 6,900 people have received the support, of which 58% are women and 42% are men. Since 2018, the Folkbildningsrådet distributes special funds to study associations for outreach and motivating study associations aimed at foreign-born women. The initiative will strengthen the participants' confidence, offer opportunities to complement basic knowledge and, through guiding discussions, show possible ways to study in areas such as adult education, municipal adult education and vocational training. The labour market training guidelines are unevenly distributed between women and men. The Employment Service has been tasked with working with gender mainstreaming with the aim of women and men having access to labour market policy support on equal terms. As far as labour market training is concerned, this work needs to continue to be developed. The education system must also be able to meet women and men with extensive training needs and equip them with the skills needed in the labour market. In order to strengthen people's job opportunities and improve matching in the labour market, the government has launched a new knowledge boost with a focus on municipal adult education, adult education and college. The possibility of subsidised employment can be an important route to jobs for groups that are far removed from the labour market. Extra services can be a way into the labour market for newcomers and the long-term unemployed, especially for women born abroad. All municipalities are obliged to offer new arrivals and their relatives social orientation with information about the rights, obligations and opportunities of all residents in Sweden. It is an important effort to discuss which norms and values apply in Sweden, with a focus on gender equality, among other things, in the native language of the newcomers or with the help of interpreters. The spring change budget also presented an investment of SEK 340 million in this year for labour market policy interventions. The initiative is expected to lead to more people, such as women born abroad, taking part in actions that lead to jobs. The spring amendment budget also proposes that SEK 45 million be allocated to strengthen the work against honour-related violence and repression, that SEK 4 million be allocated for actions against discrimination and racism, that the grant to the Equality Agency be increased by SEK 40 million and that the grant to the Delegation against segregation be increased by SEK 11 million.
i-d021fa48987c4062-20	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the comprehensive answer and for the report. Most of the answer concerns general measures in the labour market to increase employment, which is important when more efforts need to be made. The Minister also talks about women and about measures in general and about women's opportunities in the labour market. Much in the Minister's reply is about new arrivals. It is very important both with student support and with the establishment of new arrivals. But my questions in my interpellation are actually about the women who were born here in Sweden, who have lived here for a long time, are isolated, live under patriarchal regulations outside society and in an honorary culture. They are also outside our security system. According to statistics from Arbetsförmedlingen, the differences between women and men have increased in the proportion of job seekers in employment or studies 90 days after completion of their establishment since the last survey was carried out in September 2018. It is extremely doubtful whether these efforts described by the Minister, although good and important, will be sufficient to reverse developments so that the gap between the establishment of men and women is closed. A comparison between women and men shows that this strong development has included both sexes. However, there is a significantly stronger increase among men, with a highest level measured in July 2018 of 58 per cent, while for women it was 30.5 per cent. Studies show that women are not met on the basis of their real needs, but on the basis of stereotypical notions and prejudices, including that women are better suited to domestic work than in the labour market. I meet many women in the suburbs who have to work to make coffee and bake buns, which unfortunately does not lead to work or future security. This continues year in and year out. I meet many women who have lived in this country for 15 to 25 years and are still looking for work. They need both strong support in the education system and work outside the suburbs. Then they can feel safe, have the opportunity to learn Swedish and take part of our labour market policies. Many of these women are outside our labour market, but unfortunately the Minister does not have much to do with this invisible group in his response. True, those who have arrived recently are doing reasonably well. It is a younger generation that is educated, and I meet those who get into the labour market faster.
i-d021fa48987c4062-30	Madam President, I would like These are important issues that Amineh Kakabaveh raises in the interpellation and debate. There were many questions in the interpellation, and I understand that. Solving this situation is complex and action is needed in a wide range of areas. It is therefore reasonable that the approach should be quite broad. Let me say something specific about what Amineh Kakabaveh talks about women who have come to Sweden and lived here for a long time but are not yet part of the Swedish labour market or society and who have a weak foundation in the surrounding society and are not yet supporting themselves in their own work. That is a very serious problem. Of course, a number of different measures are needed, but one of the most important is active labour market policies. Many times these people lack networks and the ability to demonstrate their skills and skills through their own contacts. An active labour market policy is needed. It is therefore important to be able to continue to invest resources in active labour market policies. But right now we're in a difficult position. Although the government has contributed resources to the spring change budget, which I hope the Parliament will support, we have not had the opportunity to provide as much resources as were cut off in the budget voted by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats just before Christmas. This means that Arbetsförmedlingen must say no to many people who would need action. It worries me a lot, because in the group that has a weak Swedish network and maybe many of the acquaintances who also do not work or have become part of Swedish society, you are very dependent on an active labour market policy. One of the most important issues for the autumn budget will therefore be to give priority to new resources for labour market policy. These may include training, professional Swedish, additional services and support and matching efforts. It is important that this type of support is available to these women. Amineh Kakabaveh is right that there are stereotypical notions. This was investigated a number of years ago in a state inquiry, and it turned out that the Public Employment Service also sometimes has what one might call well-meaning discrimination. It does not make the same demands or have the same expectations for men and women, especially women born abroad. This is serious, and one of the things we are directing Arbetsförmedlingen towards is to have gender mainstreaming and to pay attention. The Authority takes this very seriously because it risks contributing to discrimination, even if it is unintentional, and does not provide sufficient conditions for women. Madam President, I would like There is much to say, but let me say something about the establishment of new arrivals. Here we have seen a clear improvement for both men and women in recent years. Not so long ago, a comparison was made of the speed with which new arrivals can enter the labour market in the different Nordic countries. It showed, among other things, that Norway has been better than Sweden at this. However, something that is gratifying from my perspective is that Sweden has had a marked improvement in recent years, which the other Nordic countries have not had. Although I share the view that much remains to be done, this still means that some of the efforts we have made in politics have had an effect and have been the right way forward.
i-d021fa48987c4062-41	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government. Of course it is different, because other demands are being made today. The generation that is coming now is also more educated and has a little better opportunities. However, we still have a problem. Today, the Calmfors report was on the news, and it shows that Sweden is no better than the other Nordic countries in terms of integration and immigrant women's situation in the labour market. The Minister raised the stakes. A great deal of money would go to peoples' education, and special funds would be given to seek out and motivate foreign-born women. But this money disappeared with this autumn's M-KD budget. The study associations received SEK 30 million for the autumn of 2018 and another SEK 10 million in the spring 2018 budget. The plan was that the business would receive 50 million in 2019 and 2020 respectively, but in the autumn budget for 2019 the funding remained unchanged at 30 million. In practice, therefore, the study associations received 10 million less in funding in 2019 than in 2018, and the promised reinforcement failed completely.
i-d021fa48987c4062-47	In addition, how should the government ensure that both men and women get the right input based on their needs and not on preconceived ideas? The Employment Service has announced that the extra services, the only subsidised form of employment distributed fairly equally between men and women, are stopped as a result of the budgetary changes. Does the Minister have any new information on this issue? How will the government ensure that this cut does not affect women and particularly immigrant women? Many questions remain due to budgetary changes resulting from the M-KD budget. Those most affected by this are those who are furthest from the labour market, not least immigrant women who have lived here for a long time but who are not working, studying and the Swedish language. Whether the government is Social Democratic or moderate, today's policy on immigrant women is hard hit. They are allowed to make coffee and bake bread at home and in their associations. The fact that they get some association grants to get away from home is not enough. They need something else, and it has to come now before things get worse.
i-d021fa48987c4062-51	Madam President, I would like Let me first say something about the Nordic comparison. Two different comparative studies have been carried out. I think it's good if you do that kind of study, because there's a lot to learn. It has turned out that our neighbours in the Nordic countries are better than we at getting new arrivals into work faster. It has also been shown that no country has made as much improvements to the results in recent years as Sweden. This is gratifying, because it means that politics plays a role. Something that is also gratifying is that we are the only country in the Nordic region where, above all, women's establishment continues to improve even after a long time in Sweden. While other countries reach a plateau after a few years and so it stays there, we manage to improve the results even for those who have been in Sweden for a long time but have not yet entered the labour market. Although the challenges that remain are great, I would like to point out that when the previous government in the previous parliamentary term had the opportunity to steer and lead the work on the basis of our priorities and budgets, we had clear improvements for precisely these groups. This work needs to continue. Now we have a budget that other parties are behind. We have been able to make changes in it, but it is, after all, limited what can be done in a spring amending budget. We will return with a full budget in the autumn. Outreach activities are extremely important, not least for the group that Amineh Kakabaveh is talking about. It is often people who are not enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen. The employment agency cannot work with those who are not enrolled, but there needs to be an outreach activity. There, the study associations and the non-profit sector are important players in being able to seek out and motivate, and this is an activity that I want to see continue to grow. It plays a major role especially for the group of people who have been here for a long time and who are often not enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen. New arrivals are entered more or less automatically. As I said in my previous post, Arbetsförmedlingen prioritises working with its own systems and attitudes in order to avoid unwittingly treating men and women differently. I have no illusion that this has been fully achieved, but I know that the issue is given high priority within the authority and will continue to control it. When it comes to achieving gender equality and that men and women should be treated and treated equally and met with similar expectations and few conditions based on their needs, statistics are the woman's best friend. You should always follow up, have statistics and measure the changes and impacts of different types of labour market policy measures. It is just as Amineh Kakabaveh says, that extra services are the only labour market policy measure with 50% women and 50% men. Local job tracks also have 50 percent women and 50 percent men. These are examples of actions that we know have an equal distribution between men and women, while, for example, new jobs have a great deal of emphasis on men. This is important and should also steer priorities forward.
i-NqpS5TNeb4vVXNaM3fQK1A	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Ylva Johansson! I'll start where the minister left off. The additional services have been suspended by the budget cuts. What will happen next? It affects women the most. Will it be ensured that the target group is not affected? It is about the 10 million, which would promote foreign-born women and which the Minister mentioned in his reply. How will the government ensure and follow up that foreign-born women are truly prioritised? If the money is not earmarked, how are we to guarantee that the 10 million will benefit women? This is also an issue as the Employment Service disappears and the budget changes stop a lot of important things or will do so. It is also about research, which I think is important. We are very careful when it comes to research. I think it was 20-25 years since the last research on the labour market. At that time it was mostly Finnish women and women who came from, for example, Greece or the former Yugoslavia. There is not so much research on foreign-born women that has come in the last 20 years. Statistics are important, because it develops the country and gives us perspective on how improvements are to be made. I hope that the government will invest in research and other important measures. Finally, I would also like to say that it is important to invest in problems of honour. This is done, but the problem is that it is only in project form. Local authorities' efforts in terms of integration and these issues are not long-term but temporary.
i-d021fa48987c4062-62	Madam President, I would like First, on the resources for labour market policy, let me say that there should be no illusions. If you cut 2.7 billion from labour market policy, as happened with the parliamentary decision that M, KD and SD voted on just before Christmas, it will have an effect. These effects, when labour market policies are cut, affect those most in need of labour market policies. It's kind of in the nature of things. So I do not think we should have any illusions that there will be effects. This has led to the Arbetsförmedlingen having to pull the emergency brake to decide on new interventions, although many are still in additional services. The additional services will continue, but new resources will have to be available for granting new aid. There are some new resources coming now, through redeployments within appropriations. By redeployment in the spring change budget, the Employment Service will, if the Riksdag so decides, add about 640 new million that can be used in labour market policy. It will, of course, be up to the authority to make these assessments, but additional services are, of course, one of the actions that could be considered for these resources. Also local job tracks, support and matching can be important efforts. I would also like to say that the Employment Service is not going away. The Public Employment Service will remain and continue to be a large and important government authority, but there will be changes. We shall ensure that this is done in such a way that those who need labour market policy most – Amineh Kakabaveh raised one of these groups – are not hit hardest by the changes. I see this as an important priority. Then there is an extremely important discussion on how to continue to strengthen, permanent and systematise the work against honour repression and violence, which restricts many women today. This carries a little outside, but I refer further to my colleague Åsa Lindhagen, who will certainly be happy to come here and discuss this issue further.
i-d021fa48987c4062-67	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me how I see in increasing the expropriation allowance for those who need to move in large industrial and infrastructure projects in low and medium price areas in Sweden when there are not enough houses to buy on the secondary market and current expropriation compensation if the market value plus 25% is not enough to build new houses, if I intend to initiate a change in legislation as proposed in the Ministry memorandum Compensation for expropriation of housing and how long the issue will be prepared in the Government Office. The starting point of the Expropriation Act is that the person affected by expropriation should be kept harmless. However, when the law was written, urban transformations of the kind currently taking place in connection with mining in Kiruna and Gällivare-Malmberget were not anticipated. These urban transformations have proved to have a significant impact on the housing market. In such a situation, the application of the acquis may entail levels of compensation which are not sufficiently high to meet the needs of residents for new housing. Against this background, the rules on compensation in the Expropriation Act have been revised. The purpose of the investigation has been to ensure that individuals do not get into trouble when an expropriation or similar coercive action targets their residents. In the above-mentioned departmental memorandum, the investigator proposes that the Expropriation Act introduce a general rule on compensation for increased housing costs as a result of expropriation, to the extent that there are specific grounds for such compensation in view of the conditions of the housing market in the local environment. The rule shall apply to house owners, right-of-occupancy holders and tenants. The memo has been sent for a referral. A majority of the consultation bodies are in favour of the investigator's main proposal, which is now being processed taking into account the points of reference. The government is pursuing an active housing policy. An important element is that individuals should benefit from strong housing social protection. This applies not least to expropriation. Continued work on the proposals is therefore a priority.
i-d021fa48987c4062-71	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is, of course, the case that Sweden, which is a strong democracy and the rule of law, must have a very important protection of property rights. It is a very important protection for private property owners when they are exposed to such a large restriction in the liver as it means when a property is forced to redeem. As the Government said in its reply, we have legislation that generally works well, but in some areas of Sweden this legislation has not been sufficient. One such area, which I have asked a question about in the interpellation and which the Government mentioned in the answer, is Kiruna and Malmberget, with the transformation taking place there because of mining. It seems, however, from the answer given by the Government, that it shares the view that this legislation should be amended. What concerns me, Madam President, is that the Government said in its response that this is a priority issue. Then I think like this: if it is a priority issue, how has it been possible since 2016 to get this legislation in place? When you look at the government's website and read the press release that came on 3 June 2016– 3 June 2016, Madam President– you see that the proposal states that the legislation will enter into force on 1 January. The government website does not say if it is 1 January 2017, as one might think, since it has been published in 2016. It could be 2018, 2019, 2020 or 2021. One is a little amazed at how it can take so much time to get new legislation in place when everyone seems to agree that it is needed. As the Government said in its reply, all the consultation bodies have been in favour of this change. Investigator Bertil Bengtsson had thus done a very good job. I miss this in the Government's response. How long will this matter be prepared – that is, when will the government act? And how has it taken three years since the press release was posted on the government's website without anything happening? This issue lives very much in Kiruna. It affects a great many people. As recently as yesterday, SVT Norrbotten had a major feature about living in eastern Malmberget, which is not at all in agreement with the mining company. As far as I understand, Kiruna has made very good agreements, but similar solutions have not been found in Malmberget. This legislation is needed for homeowners and property owners, and it needs to be put in place. As I understand the Government, he is in favour of changing the legislation and putting it in place in accordance with the proposals made. The referral bodies are positive, the investigator has done a very good job and the legislation is in demand. The Government's website still states – dated 3 June 2016 – clearly that the legislation proposed will enter into force on 1 January. So what has delayed this legislation to the extent that it has taken place, and when does it come into place?
i-d021fa48987c4062-81	Madam President, I would like After all, we fundamentally agree that we need to have a regulatory framework that makes the state assume its full responsibility when you have to expropriate property. It could involve large infrastructure projects. After all, we are doing a lot in terms of infrastructure, but there will be even more in the future, not least when we are going to build high-speed roads. Then we must have strong legislation to lean on. In 2010, this responsibility was further strengthened. Then came a rule that said that in addition to the market value, which you should replace, you should add 25 percent. This meant an increased responsibility for the developer in this case. The problem that has arisen, which concerns the ore fields, is that even this is not enough in certain situations relating to certain projects and areas. There may not be any other houses to buy in that area. Then you simply have to build new ones, and then even the replacement for the old house does not cover the cost of a new house plus 25 percent. That's what happened in the Malmfälten. It could have been very problematic for individuals if LKAB had not gone in and covered a large part of the cost. LKAB is now simply taking a large part of the cost of new constructions, so that people can get equal housing as compensation. One might say that it is fortunate that LKAB is still in government ownership. If the Moderates had got what they wanted, they would have sold LKAB out, and it would have been much more difficult to resolve this issue with other owners. As far as legislation is concerned, there is clearly a need to find solutions in the probably relatively few cases that cannot be covered by the general rule. That is why I set up the investigation in 2015; it was on my initiative that this was done. The investigation came up with a report in 2016. It is true that the majority of the consultative bodies have been positive, but there are also objections to the proposal, particularly with regard to the transitional arrangements. This has meant that we need to continue working on the proposal. However, I expect that we will be able to continue to do so in the autumn and that we will be able to go to Parliament next year with a legislative proposal so that we can have stronger legislation in place.
i-d021fa48987c4062-87	Madam President, I would like I want to correct the information: I have at least not seen any proposals from the Moderates that we should sell LKAB. I would also like to correct the Government on another point, and it is appropriate for the Government, after this interpellation debate, to go to svt.se, click on There, for example, one of the villa owners in the area says that most people who the person talked to would like to take a new house elsewhere and that nothing was shot, either from the municipal side or from LKAB's side. So it is not that LKAB is flawless in this. The Government said in its reply that this is a priority issue, but it has taken three more years today – four years if the legislation is in place next year. Then you wonder how Sweden is managed when it comes to the issues that may not be prioritised. It is, of course, a huge intrusion into a family's life when you are going to have your house redeemed. You've baked buns in the kitchen. You've seen your kids grow up there. You may even have built the house with your hands once in the world, and then you will be moved away from it. This is right, because society has judged that the benefits of society are greater. In this case, this must, of course, take precedence over the protection of property rights. However, when this happens, there must be adequate legislation in place so that the property owner goes unharmed. I think the Government is right; if, for example, we are to build a high-speed railway in Sweden, it will affect a lot more people. There may of course be forests in the country where the property value is very low and where today's legislation is not at all sufficient, just as I mentioned in my interpellation, so I believe that this legislation will be very useful when it comes into place. As the Government says, there is a large and broad consensus on this issue. There is a large and broad consensus that property owners will go unscrupulous. If you put forward a good proposal, there are good conditions for it to go through in Parliament, if it even needs to be left a bill – I don't know. We'll figure that out. I would like to see this legislation in place already this autumn and that we do not wait until 2020. Of course, there is a need to calm people's fears, even though there are not many. Of course, in a small municipality where there are few people, this is a big issue. In a Swedish perspective, this is not the biggest question, but for those affected by the issue it is very important. It is good that LKAB takes responsibility. LKAB might listen even more to the criticism that exists against the company; obviously there is a conflict in Malmberget that has not been resolved. However, I think it works pretty well in Kiruna.
i-d021fa48987c4062-95	Madam President, I would like LKAB was on the Moderate sales list. I've got the exercise right here. It is signed by Mikael Odenberg, as Lars Beckman probably knows. The motion is from the beginning of the 2000s, and had the Moderates got their way then LKAB would have been sold out. Who knows where it had been sold – to American interests, French interests or Russian interests? The relocation of Kiruna started in 2014, so it would have been enough to have until then another principal who handled all these balances. Fortunately, you did not get your way, Lars Beckman, and from what I understand, you have now also abandoned that idea. But had you got your way then LKAB would have been in the hands of private interests, so it's a good thing you didn't get it. I'm going to the main thing here. The legislative proposal that exists – and which was the result of the initiative to review the legislation that I took – we are working on, but we probably need to analyse some of the views of the consultation bodies. This must be legislation that can not only be pushed forward but also lasts over time and can work in reality, so to speak. Then it is, among other things, the transitional rules that we need to review; we have received some objections from the consultation bodies. It is clear that legislation may always take a long time, and in all circumstances, but my experience is that it is probably better to ensure that there is legislation in place that is well prepared, so that courts and others can judge by it, than to bring forward proposals that are not properly prepared. I say now that, according to the planning for our term of office, we will be able to go to Parliament with this legislation next year and get it in place. I look forward to the fact that we will be able to get a broad consensus behind it in Parliament.
i-d021fa48987c4062-99	Madam President, I would like Swedish mining industry is of course very important. We heard not least on the state radio this morning about the demand for certain minerals that will arise now that we are electrifying the car park. So it is not unthinkable that the legislation will affect more people, and as far as I understand it, the government has a mining strategy. Of course, we can always look for old proposals from parties, but for a number of years the Moderates have no proposal to sell any company called LKAB. In four years' time, I cannot judge this matter, but it is a very long time. I also note that the investigator Bertil Bengtsson proposed – and it is still on the government's own website – that the legislation should enter into force on 1 January. It is true that there is no year on the website, so it could be 2017, as thought, or 2018, 2019, 2021 or 2022. However, it seems to be a relatively balanced proposal that exists. It is good that the government set up this investigation, and it is good that the Government did the review. There is a large and broad support for implementing this legislation and, of course, for keeping these households harmless to the extent required.
i-d021fa48987c4062-102	Madam President, I would like I can sign by saying that I think it is good that the Moderates have abandoned the idea of selling LKAB. A situation in which you have to negotiate with American, French or Russian interests whether to take the costs of some of the Kiruna residents who now have to move would have been much more difficult, I would say. I do not think that they would have been so prepared to go beyond the current requirement under the legislation, which LKAB is now doing. There are certainly individual situations where you can do even more on LKAB's part, but that question may in that case be raised with the responsible minister. At least now the company is still in government ownership, and this means that we have much more opportunities to influence how to deal with these situations. As I said, the legislation is on its way. It is clear that it may have been slow during this government, but in the eight years of the previous bourgeois government nothing happened. There was no review of this legislation, but it is we who have taken the initiative. It is also we who will deliver it, and we will do so next year.
i-d021fa48987c4062-105	Madam President, I would like dward Riedl has asked me whether the government, in the context of economic policy, has tried to ensure that the costs and efforts of climate policy are borne equally across the country. He has also asked me what considerations the government is making with regard to the climate benefit of each invested crown. I would like to begin by emphasising the importance of the policy being shared by the whole country and that I do not see any contradiction between this and an effective climate policy. On the contrary, rural areas are affected as much as cities are affected by a changing climate. At the same time, climate change must take place in such a way that everyone has the opportunity to be part of the solution. The Government is working to achieve the climate targets decided by the Riksdag. D is a goal which has also been supported by the interpeller's party. At EU level, the government has worked actively to create long-term, transparent and equivalent rules within the EU ETS. As a result of a proposal from Sweden, a large volume of allowances will be cancelled in 2024 and regularly thereafter, which has already contributed to an increase in the price of allowances and increased pressure for a fossil-free society. In addition to the EU ETS, the government supports the transition of industry to zero emissions through the long-term investment in Industry. In the transport sector, the CO2 tax and reduction obligation are cost-effective instruments to reduce the use of fossil fuels and increase the involvement of one of sustainable renewable fuels. Climate change is another important contribution to reducing emissions throughout the country. D is why the government proposed in the annual change budget that the investment be increased by SEK 750 million during the current year. The interpeller wonders what considerations we have made when we introduced bonus-malus. The Alliance government introduced a system whereby all taxpayers were allowed to contribute to the then super-environmental car premium. Bonus – malus is a more cost-neutral system, where an increased vehicle tax on new high-carbon cars over the first three years pays the bonus for the purchase of low-carbon cars. This is one way to help meet the transport climate target and steer towards a fleet of cars that emit less without sending the bill to ordinary taxpayers. The interpellant further wonders about the climate benefit of the airline tax. The government believes that aviation should pay more for its climate costs. Therefore, the airline tax should be maintained. The Government's ambition is for Sweden to put on the leadership shirt to renegotiate the international agreements and conventions that today put an end to a tax on aviation fuel that can replace today's tax on air travel. In addition, the Government has an active policy for the whole of Sweden to live and grow. The digital infrastructure will be expanded and the state presence will be strengthened throughout the country. Through investments in, among other things, education and communications in the annual change budget, the government is taking steps to achieve the goal of a coherent rural policy established by the rural bill.
i-d021fa48987c4062-112	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is often talked about that Sweden should be a pioneer country in the field of environment and climate change. It is basically a good ambition if we fill it with the right content, and then the costs should also be apportioned fairly across the country. Against this background, it is problematic that the Swedish National Audit Office, the Council for Fiscal Policy and several others have criticised the Government's climate policy. In fact, the Swedish National Audit Office saw the government's major climate action Climate action, which the Minister addressed in his reply. It is said that the cost is high and the results modest. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office considered that the government misled the Riksdag and painted the initiative. These are the initiatives that the government now chooses to make more of. Let me say that climate policy is important. However, if the measures taken for Sweden to lead the way in climate policy instead become ineffective and costly, and with an unreasonable distribution of costs within the country, Sweden does not show the way. Timbro's chief economist was here in Parliament a week ago. In fact, he warned that Sweden could become a deterrent in the field of climate policy if we continue along this path. Instead, I and the Moderates believe that Sweden will implement environmental and climate initiatives that have a real impact and that can also be combined with high economic growth throughout the country. If Sweden is able to do so, we will seriously become a pioneer country, a country from which other countries want to copy solutions. Then we need to invest in research, innovation, nuclear energy – things that are good politics and things that really enable us to combat the climate problems in our world. Unfortunately, much of this government's policy is instead about punishing distances and punishing people who simply lack alternatives to cars, flights and other things. It's the distances that should be punished. China plans to build 216 new airports over the next 15 years. India plans to build some 200 new airports. Around the world, the number of air passengers, airlines and airports is exploding completely. If Magdalena Andersson's government succeeds in smashing the domestic flight to Norrland, among others, no one but her friends in the Green Party will rejoice. It will not even marginally change the world's climate emissions. No other countries will follow Sweden. Those of us who live in Norrland will be forced to drive if we are not able to fly. It's getting worse for us. But it in no way reduces climate emissions. Instead, we should be doing what Sweden has been doing for a long time, thus being involved in the development of more efficient aircraft and green aviation fuels and really reducing emissions through research and not with air taxes. At the same time, the Minister of Finance has raised the tax on petrol and diesel in shock during his years as a minister. Five years ago, a liter of petrol and diesel cost a little over $1 (U.S.). Today, the price is nearing $7 (U.S.). People who depend on the car still have the same distance to work. They still have to drive their children to various activities. Emissions do not decrease with government policy. But the cost is increasingly borne by those who have no alternatives. And the investments in e-bike premiums, electric cars and public transport are largely made by those who already have alternatives, and the cost is borne by those who do not have alternatives. Does the Minister of Finance think that the costs are actually borne equally across the country today?
i-d021fa48987c4062-124	Madam President, I would like I thank Edward Riedl for a very important interpellation. Those of us who are interested in environmental and climate issues can only agree with him. Of course, if you are going to have a policy for the whole of Sweden, you must also have a policy for the whole of Sweden in all areas. One might think that the Minister for Finance might take a little lightly what three Moderates say in this Chamber. But those of us who read Aftonbladet could read what the Chairman of the Social Democrats of Sollefteå John Åberg said. He now explains why the Social Democrats make their worst choice ever in what was previously called the Red Ådalen. The people in Ådalen feel forgotten and forgotten, he says. One of the questions that he points to, apart from BB in Sollefteå, is the very high fuel prices and the high petrol tax that beats them hard with small margins. At the same time, we know that it is fiscal tax that has a very little connection to any environmental benefit. If you live in Gävleborg, in Ådalen, in Pajala or in Leksand you have very little access to public transport. You're very dependent on a car. It is clear that it is almost a mockery when a colleague of the Minister for Finance says that you can buy a Tesla. I'm not sure that an early pensioner in Ådalen has an economy to buy a Tesla. Even if he did, the charging infrastructure is unlikely to exist there. What happens when the government shocks taxes as it has done? Well, in Dalarna it is a big news today that bus routes can be withdrawn and ticket prices raised in public transport in Dalarna as the fuel price now rises. It turns out that for every dollar that fuel prices increase it costs 15 million SEK per year for Dalatrafik's operations. This means that the shock increase in taxation on fuel that the government is engaged in also impairs public transport for those who will try to travel by public transport in Dalarna. Madam President, I would like This is a concern. We must have a policy for the whole of Sweden that has popular acceptance. When Social Democrat Niklas Nordström in Luleå very pedagogically explains why a flight tax is a pure penalty tax on Norrland's infrastructure and also not a benefit to climate change because aviation is already part of the EU's emission allowances, it is again only symbolism policy without environmental benefits, a fiscal tax that damages Norrbotten and that damages the whole of Sweden. It is difficult to understand why the government is pursuing a policy that harms those of us who live north of the Dalälven River so much. I fully understand that anyone who lives in Djurgårdsstaden or in Nacka or who rides a government car may not understand that a tank of petrol costs over $1,000. But if you want to conduct a policy for the whole of Sweden, it must really have a climate benefit. Of course, something that we Moderates are driving hard and will continue to drive is climate aid, that is to say, to help those countries where emissions are greatest to reduce their emissions. Then it also does the environmental benefit to the planet. Then it is not just a fiscal tax on us who live in Sweden.
i-d021fa48987c4062-131	Madam President, I would like Yesterday we were able to see Cold Facts on TV4 reporting that Sweden, via the Export Credit Board, has provided large guarantees for multi-billion dollars for the construction of a large gas plant in the Russian Arctic. This plant alone will emit one tenth of the carbon dioxide that the whole of Sweden emits during a year. At the same time, the government, made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, is actually concerned, as both previous speakers have mentioned, with punishing the rural people with increased taxes on petrol and a gradual decline in travel deductions each year. Lars Beckman mentioned that public transport in Dalarna has had problems. Länstrafiken in Kalmar has come with the same report. So you cancel tours in the county traffic because the price of fuel has become so high that you do not get your budget together. The government's policy therefore strikes the rural peoples directly. It hits collective travellers directly, and it impairs the chances of living in rural areas. At the same time, a government agency under the responsibility of the Minister for Finance will invest 3.3 billion in the construction of a gas plant in the Arctic, which alone will release a tenth of what the entire Swedish business emits in one year. Does the Minister of Finance really think that it is a reasonable policy to go after the individual people in the Swedish countryside while at the same time making such a mega-investment in a gas plant in the Arctic?
i-d021fa48987c4062-133	Madam President, I would like We risk ending up at a turning point in history. The earth is warming up so much right now that if we do not act we risk getting into a situation with an irreversible spiral where nature's own carbon dioxide emissions are so large that permafrost decreases and we get continuous warming. This is something that risks damaging the earth permanently and having very great effects on mankind. Those of us who are politicians and are in a decision-making position have a responsibility to act. But when we act, of course, we must do so in such a way that all people can be involved in the transition. It is about the whole of Sweden being able to make the transition that is necessary for us to be able to take our climate responsibility. That is the responsibility we have towards future generations. But Sweden is also a country that should be able to lead the world and set an example of how to act. We are also at present; Sweden is an example that is often raised in international contexts. As the Moderates point out, it is important that we use our efforts and our tax money as efficiently as possible. Climate change is an initiative that has had a major impact in reducing carbon dioxide emissions in Sweden. They have decreased by 1.5 million tons thanks to the Climate Tree. This is roughly equivalent to emissions from 700 000 passenger cars. One can of course discuss whether you can use the money even more effectively. That is why the government has also made it clear that we will be looking at whether we can further increase cost-effectiveness so that the money is not spent on investments that might otherwise have been made anyway. At the same time, it is important investments that are financed through climate change. One of the members of Parliament addressed the need for infrastructure to charge electric cars. This is the investment that most of the money from the Climate Centre goes to; they are just going to expand the charging infrastructure that is necessary for us to be able to drive an electric car. Of course, people on low incomes will not be able to buy a Tesla. I am well aware of that, and we are all well aware of that. But we also know that when second-hand cars enter the secondary market, there are opportunities for people with normal incomes to buy second-hand cars that are more environmentally and climate friendly. That's what we're seeing now. A car that is five or ten years old today is not as effective as the new ones sold today, but it is much more efficient than a five or ten year old car was before, five, ten or fifteen years ago. This is also what makes that even though the price of petrol is higher, the number of minutes or hours you have to work to pay the cost of taking a car to work is no greater today than it was five, ten or fifteen years ago. The Swedish National Audit Office and Konjunkturinstitutet point out that one could use a more cost-effective instrument than climate change. That would be raising the CO2 tax. Is that something the Moderates advocate? If we are now talking about cost-effective policy instruments, it is the CO2 tax that scientists think is the most effective way of controlling environmental policy. I do not see that further substantial one-off increases in the CO2 tax are what the Moderates advocate, although it may sound like that in the speaker's seat.
i-d021fa48987c4062-141	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the bonus – the Malus system. It is a way of taxing petrol and diesel cars with a little higher emissions, on which many in rural areas depend, to finance electric cars and other things. These are the ones that are mostly sold in our cities. The Minister of Finance criticises the Alliance Government for – if I remember her words correctly – sending the bill for the environmental car premium that we, from the Alliance Government, imposed on all taxpayers. And that's right; we took funds from the Treasury and made an effort to facilitate the sale of cars with lower emissions. The Minister of Finance is now proud that the bill is no longer sent to ordinary taxpayers. Madam President, I would like I can only interpret it in one way: all people in the country who depend on the car are therefore unusual taxpayers. It is good that the Minister for Finance has made that definition clear to us. Then you know what you are; you are therefore an unusual taxpayer if you depend on the car. Now the Minister of Finance is pleased that the bill ends up with the unusual taxpayers – that is, with all of you who depend on the car. You're the one who's gonna pay for all this. It is Social Democratic justice, if I understand it correctly. What, though, is fair if today you lack alternatives to the car and are simply loaded on costs all the time? What is the fairness if the efforts made are to be taken by the people who lack alternatives to be invested in those who already have alternatives? They have public transport, they have walking distance and they have bike distance. This is where you should invest in extended public transport, e-bike premiums and more, and the funds should be taken from the unusual taxpayers – all those who are dependent on the car every day. At least I'll be clear on that. On the climate issue, Madam President, I fully agree with the Minister for Finance. Of course, we have a lot of things to do, and it is against that background that I and my party are concerned that the National Audit Office, the Council for Fiscal Policy and other expert authorities are critical of the government's policy. It's expensive, and it's inefficient. Sweden has actually increased climate emissions since we got the Green Party into the government. It doesn't sound like that in the debate, but that's how it is. Instead, we must do things that really solve the problems we face. And no, I do not believe in increased carbon tax in a country where we already have the world's highest carbon tax. This is what Timbro's chief economist points out: Sweden risks becoming a deterrent in the world. So if we continue to step forward from the levels we are already at and with the burdens we put on ordinary people, we risk becoming a deterrent in the world, which no one will follow. Madam President, I would like I had some questions which I asked the Minister for Finance in the interpellation to which she neither answered in the written reply nor addressed in the speaker's chair. I would really like a short and straight yes or no answer, but I understand that it is sometimes difficult. I have every respect for this, but I do not think that the Minister for Finance has even approached this. Does she think that within the framework of economic policy, the government has tried to ensure that the costs and efforts of climate policy are borne equally across the country? I'm critical. I think that the bill is sent to those who have no alternatives and the bets are placed on those who have alternatives. Does the Minister of Finance say so, or doesn't she think so? It is quite reasonable to be able to answer yes or no to such a question, for it is not very complicated. Either you think this is carried equally across the country or you don't think so. I do not think it is carried in the same way, but I think that the distribution that is being made is unfair. It will not lead to less emissions. Reality has also shown that emissions have increased with this government.
i-d021fa48987c4062-151	Madam President, I would like Of course, I will not answer the questions to the Minister for Finance. But I can say, for example, that I have produced a report from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service on where the subsidised electric bicycles are located in Sweden. Where were the subsidised electric bicycles bought? I can tell you that in Gävleborg County there is a municipality called Ovanåker. There it was zero; not a single person had bought a subsidised e-bike in Edsbyn and Alfta. You can understand that if you have ever taken the government car and gone to Edsbyn and Alfta, because there you do not go e-bicycle. It was, of course, the core voters of the Green Party – the vast majority of the residents of Södermalm – who bought subsidised electric bicycles. Then who paid the subsidy? It was the pensioners in Norrbotten and the pensioners in Gävleborg. It is the former S-valves in Ådalen, who now feel abandoned. I do not think that one should underestimate the Swedish people's opportunity to see what is happening. The government actively supports a Russian fossil gas plant in the Arctic – the place on earth where climate change takes place the fastest. This plant will emit 5.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide each year – a tenth of what Sweden emits in one year. Of course people get pissed off, and rightly so! The government limits people's mobility and mobility in this country while investing in a Russian fossil gas plant in the Arctic. It is a policy that is not connected, and it is a mockery of those who cannot afford to refuel their car. And the worst of all: it undermines, as Edward Riedl says, confidence in politics in general. Of course, it harms all of us who want to ensure that we have an effective climate policy that makes sense and makes a difference.
i-d021fa48987c4062-156	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the debate on climate policy, you often get the impression that anyone who spends the most of taxpayers' hard-earned money on investments drives the best policy. But what if you look at who gets the most benefit from the money instead if the money actually does any good? Then there is actually a very careful report that shows that the Moderates get the most environmental benefit for their bet money. We invest less money but have more effect. It is the same as in all other policy areas: it is not a competition about who spends the most tax money. The Minister of Finance should appreciate this – that you can get more benefit for less money. The actions of the Minister of Finance and the Government have been sawed by both the Institute of Economic Development and the National Audit Office. Now the Minister of Finance boasts that climate change has indeed reduced emissions by 1.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year, but as Lars Beckman just reported, this gas power plant in the Arctic actually emits 5.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide every year. Thus, it is almost four times more than the benefits in the other direction that the Climate Tree is claimed to have done. Despite the fact that we have squeezed the Swedish motorists and the Swedish households a lot to achieve a small emission reduction, the government is investing a lot of money in the Arctic that increases emissions almost four times as much. It is a mockery of the individual Swedes in the country. All pensioners, disabled people and others who have to have a car have to pay, and at the same time the government is wasting money on pointless measures and investing in a gas power plant in the Arctic. Politics is so cynical and unfair that you almost lack words. I would like to hear a comment from the Minister of Finance about this facility and how she defends it.
i-d021fa48987c4062-161	Madam President, I would like Who are ordinary taxpayers and who are unusual taxpayers? When I talk about ordinary taxpayers, I think about the assistant nurse, the janitor, the cleaner, and the one who works in the food service at school. I'm thinking about the nanny who takes care of our children and the recreation teacher who works with the young people in Fritis after school. These are often the ones I think about when I think of ordinary taxpayers. I have never met anyone in these professions who will be affected by bonuses – malus. The Malus part is paid for by those who buy new, newly manufactured cars with very high emissions, usually cars that cost several hundred thousand crowns. I've never met a nurse who bought a new Volvo XC90. I've never met a janitor driving around in a new Volvo V90. These are cars bought by people who have very high incomes. Nor is it that they lack alternatives. They choose to buy a large car that emits a lot of carbon dioxide instead of buying Volvo's charging hybrid. If you do, you get a bonus instead. That's the beauty of the system. It affects those who have high incomes, which you usually have when buying new cars. But they have options. They don't have to buy these cars. They can buy another car. If you choose to buy a climate-smart car, you get a bonus instead. This is different from the system introduced by the Moderates, which meant that both the assistant nurse, the caretaker, the cleaner and the food cook were involved in paying the super-environmental car premium, which went to those with high incomes who could afford to buy new cars. I think the system we have today is much better. As far as electric bicycles are concerned, the super-environmental car premium cost many times more than the electric bicycle premium. What also distinguishes is that with Moderate politics the assistant nurse, caretaker and cleaner in rural areas also paid for the new cars sold, mostly in the big cities. For eight years, the policy of the Moderates meant a cavalcade of tax cuts to those with the highest incomes, and they do not live in sparsely populated areas. Tax cuts were evicted over Lidingö, Danderyd, Täby and Nacka. It's the Moderates' economic policy. Who benefits from the abolition of property tax – those who live in the beach villas in Djursholm or those who live in cottages in sparsely populated areas? That is the summary of the Moderates' economic policy. It is not a rural policy; it is a policy for the rich in the big cities.
i-d021fa48987c4062-168	Madam President, I would like 216 new airports in China. 200 new airports in India. This will happen in the next 10 to 15 years. Does the Minister of Finance think it is more effective to take out domestic flights in Norrland to meet climate problems than to invest in more efficient aircraft engines, green aviation fuels and electric aircraft? The Minister of Finance has not responded to that. The government has raised the gas tax. The government has increased the diesel tax. The government has increased the vehicle tax. The government has reduced the travel allowance. The government has introduced bonuses – the Malus system. The list can be made much longer. Ordinary people who are dependent on the car every day will be squeezed into this government's policy. They are the ones who have to pay all the costs of climate policy. They will also pay for investments in urban areas on public transport and electric bicycles to people who already have alternatives, who already have public transport, walking distance and cycling distance. I do not think it is a reasonable distribution of the money in this country. I do not think it is a reasonable distribution of climate costs. The Minister of Finance has saved the lives of the current taxpayers. So it is all taxpayers who are not dependent on the car. Everyone who depends on the car is, according to the Minister of Finance's definition, unusual taxpayers. They're the ones that need to be squeezed. They are the ones who will pay the higher costs. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance has not answered the question I asked in the interpellation. Of course, you can be disappointed about that. However, I cannot interpret the Minister for Finance in any other way than that she is satisfied with how the costs are distributed across the country, that the country is being torn apart, that the gap between town and country is increasing. The Minister of Finance is pleased with that. It is not possible to interpret her answer in any other way than that. I find it distressing. We Moderates will not stand up for that kind of policy. We are going to invest in real climate policy that makes a real difference.
i-d021fa48987c4062-174	Madam President, I would like I thought I was very clear: there is an economic policy in this Parliament that is tearing the country apart, and that is the moderate economic policy. The policy of the Moderates is intended solely to benefit those with high incomes, large villas and large fortunes. Those people don't live in the countryside. Increasing the economic gap, in favour of those who are rich at the expense of those who have lower incomes, will tear apart not only those who have a lot of money and those who have less money, but also cities and rural areas. Those with high incomes benefiting from Moderate tax cuts live in our cities. We have a responsibility to keep this country together economically, but we also need to ensure that we can carry out a climate change transition that all people across the country can participate in. It is a responsibility that we have towards our children and grandchildren. We hear a lot about what the Moderates do not want to do in climate policy. We saw in the budget motion that went through in Parliament a veritable slaughter on environmental and climate policy. We know what the Moderates don't want. But not wanting is not enough. If we are to take responsibility for our children and our grandchildren, we must carry out a climate change change, otherwise humanity will not be able to survive. I want to take that responsibility. But I know that if we are to succeed, we must do so in such a way that the whole country can be in the climate transition. We must do so so that people living in sparsely populated areas and people with lower incomes can also be involved in the transition. This is the way Sweden needs to move forward: that we take responsibility for reducing the gaps but also for implementing a necessary climate change change.
i-d021fa48987c4062-178	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me about the recent weakening of the Swedish krona and the measures I intend to take to restore confidence in Swedish fiscal policy and thereby strengthen the value of our currency. A key factor in the short-term exchange rate is monetary policy. In its latest report on monetary policy, the Riksbank describes that a more expansionary monetary policy in Sweden has contributed to a weaker crown rate. The Riksbank's assessment is that the weakening of the krona in 2018 was mainly due to a combination of expectations of a more expansionary monetary policy in Sweden and an increased concern in the financial markets. The financial unrest was caused, among other things, by trade policy tensions between the US and China, uncertainty about Britain's withdrawal from the European Union and signs of a slowdown in the world economy. The Swedish krona has historically shown a tendency to weaken as financial market unrest increases. The period around the turn of the year is no exception, and in many smaller economies the exchange rate has weakened. In this context, I would also like to remind you that the so-called venereal economy has developed strongly in recent years. Despite an uncertain environment, Sweden's economic starting position is good. Public finance management. D a financial savings amounted to 0.9 per cent of GDP in 2018. The general government surplus has contributed to the consolidation of gross debt by around 39% of GDP in 2018. At the same time, government debt has decreased to around 26 per cent of GDP, which is the lowest government debt ratio since 1977. At the same time, sewing is the highest in over 25 years. Sweden is thus well equipped to solve the social problems we face.
i-Dg6EbJX74bPAKSzJU4LYC9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Nistern, for your answer. The weak Swedish krona is now widely debated in Sweden. Not least for all those people who travel abroad in one way or another, it becomes painfully clear that the Swedish krona has lost a great deal of value. We are a travelling people and travel more than citizens in many other countries, because, of course, we are basically a rich country. This makes us notice when the Swedish crown has become this weak. The dollar, the euro and the baht are considerably more expensive than just a few years ago. This is, of course, serious, and there are great risks linked to the weakness of the currency. In particular, there is a risk that ownership on the Swedish stock exchange may be diluted with more foreign ownership when you can buy into the companies very cheaply. This means that we risk losing the local connection in some companies in the long term. The forecast is that within a couple of years the dollar will cost up to $12. When we had an alliance government, the price of the dollar was for a while below six crowns, Madam President. But it has been a long time since it looked like that. When the Minister of Finance tells how well Sweden is doing, she compares Sweden during a boom with Sweden during recession. Madam President, I think that it is a somewhat dishonest way of trying to measure the strength of the Swedish economy. I understand that this can be avoided in some debates, but let me take an example. I am one of everyone in Sweden who likes to ride a bike and is currently in training for this year's Vätternrundan. Let me make the simple comparison that it is sometimes uphill and sometimes downhill just as it is sometimes global boom and sometimes global recession. You cannot measure uphill speed by how it goes downhill, but you have to compare yourself with everyone else who rides uphill or downhill. There is, of course, a huge difference in speed, and so is the economy. What needs to be measured is relative how Sweden performs compared to other countries around us in boom and recession respectively. There Sweden has fallen behind, Madam President, in the years that Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance. It is one of the explanations for the ever weaker Swedish krona. The outside world no longer believes in the force. The outside world sees us performing worse. Productivity per capita is falling. We have low public savings in a global boom that is hotter than in a long time. All of this together makes us relatively other countries perform less well. Therefore, the Swedish krona becomes weak. My question to the Minister for Finance was really two questions. Is the weak Swedish krona a problem or not? It's a yes or no question-- it's either a problem or it's not a problem. If this is a problem, does the Minister intend to do something in economic policy on the part of the government to try to reverse that trend? I believe that economic reforms must be at the heart of the Swedish economy if the problems of the weak Swedish krona are to be resolved seriously.
i-d021fa48987c4062-187	Madam President, I would like I'm going to come back to the parable of the bike. It is quite correct that it is easier to ride fast downhill than on the uphill. This is precisely why you look at structural savings when you compare public finances – the idea is to see what state finances look like if it is flat and neither uphill nor downhill. In this respect, I note that in the years I have been Minister of Finance, structural savings have improved considerably compared with the situation when I took over public finances. When the Moderates were in government position, the deficit was not the biggest during the financial crisis when the uphill was steepest, but in 2014 when there was no uphill. That is when the Moderates carried out large, unfunded tax cuts and sent the bill to future generations. The crown course depends on many different things. As I said earlier, the Riksbank, which operates monetary policy in Sweden, makes its own assessment that the expansionary monetary policy is an important explanation for the fact that the krona is decreasing in value. I have never heard anyone say that the problem would be a lack of confidence in Swedish fiscal policy. The fact that we need to pay incredibly low and even negative interest rates for the Swedish public debt suggests that Edward Riedl does not have to be worried about that very thing. We have a floating exchange rate. This allows the exchange rate to move. It sometimes moves upwards and sometimes downwards, and there are both advantages and disadvantages of a slightly weaker exchange rate. There are also disadvantages to a very strong exchange rate. For example, when it was an exchange rate against the dollar of SEK 6 it was a big discussion with the Swedish export industry that it made it difficult to export to the United States. If you have a stronger crown, it will be a little cheaper to go on holiday, but it can be a little more difficult for the Swedish export industry. If you have a slightly weaker crown, it is more expensive when you go on holiday abroad, but it will be easier for the Swedish export industry to export. And if you have for a long period a weak crown is the risk that the pressure of change in industry will not be strong enough to lean back and slide at a low exchange rate rather than implementing the productivity-enhancing efforts that are necessary in the long term.
i-d021fa48987c4062-191	Madam President, I would like Of course, this is what the Minister describes, and there is currently a debate about why the Swedish Crown is so weak. There are many theories about this. Of course, the Riksbank has its share in this. I mean, Madam President, that the Riksbank has a little too much to do with the debate that is currently taking place. I think, and I can of course be wrong, that we will discuss other things more that actually affect the Swedish krona in the coming time, because, according to most assessors, this is not a temporary problem but a problem that seems to be accelerating. This government, for which Magdalena Andersson has been finance minister for five years, makes Sweden a poorer country relative to our world. Sweden is becoming poorer. That's why it gets more expensive when we go abroad. That's why we'll soon have to pay twice as much for the dollar as we did when we had an alliance government. That's why the bahten is much more expensive. That is why the euro is much more expensive. That's why we have to pay 1 krona and 50 krona for the Danish krona. We can continue and make the list as long as possible. Sweden has become a poorer country during this government. The Crown Course is something that will be discussed much more. I'm convinced of that. The Riksbank also has an impact on interest rate policy, of course. My illustration of the cycle was a way of explaining that one must compare with other countries in the same economic situation, i.e. that one must compare with other cyclists who bike uphill or downhill. You can't say: Look, I ride a lot faster downhill than you did uphill. Measuring uphill against downhill is a dishonest way of trying to measure the economic strength of a country. It is unreasonable to do this. This government, in which Magdalena Andersson is Minister of Finance, went to elections in 2014, stating that we should have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. It is a goal that is basically good. It measures Sweden relative to other countries in Europe. Then you can see if you manage to get better or worse compared to other countries. What happened when we changed the government and Magdalena Andersson took over the fiscal policy was that Sweden collapsed, from place 12 to place 17 or 18 or where we are now. We have collapsed in those measurements, relative to other countries in Europe. Surely we have had the worst development in practice in the European Union, in relative terms. Then what does this government do? Is it trying to solve the problem by means of reforms to strengthen the Swedish economy or to ensure that more people enter the labour market? No, it eliminates the target. You can do that. You can make-up over politics. But the fact is that the Swedish krona is liquid in a free market. Other countries will value the policies pursued here. And other countries have. The crown course is a result of that. Magdalena Andersson and her government have made Sweden a relatively poorer country in the years she has been Minister of Finance. That's a problem. Madam President, I would like I'm listening to the Minister of Finance. I interpret her as being a little bit contented, like she thinks there are some pros and cons of the crown course being extremely low rated. Of course, you might think so. One might say that it doesn't make it much more expensive when we go on vacation. In fact, there are great risks to the Swedish economy in the long term if we perform worse than all comparable countries. Then we have a long-term problem in this country. We also risk losing ownership in companies that have been here for a long time, which have built the Swedish economy incredibly strong and which means that we have the generous welfare society that I think we all protect and want to care for.
i-d021fa48987c4062-203	Madam President, I would like Oops, one would be very frightened if there were any external, independent judge, who was not paid by the Moderates or any bourgeois think tank, who makes the same analysis as Edward Riedl. But I never heard that – quite the opposite! On the contrary, when I am out meeting investors or external assessors and international organisations, such as the International Monetary Fund, the OECD or the European Commission, they pour praise on the economic development of Sweden. They commend our exceptionally strong public finances and that we have the highest employment rate ever measured in any EU country. We have surpluses in public finances. We have the lowest public debt since 1977. We have speeded up the speed at which new arrivals get to work. We have an extremely strong starting point in the Swedish economy. We have also had high growth per capita when we look at bnp per capita in the last four years. It has been stronger than in the vast majority of countries with which we compare ourselves. If there is any criticism of fiscal policy that I have heard, it is not that it is not long-term responsibility, but perhaps that it would be good if I eased my wallet a little so as to make it easier for the Riksbank to conduct a somewhat less expansionary monetary policy. It's the only criticism I've heard from outside. But, Edward Riedl, please tell me which external assessors share your analysis. It sounds incredibly home-made.
i-d021fa48987c4062-208	Madam President, I would like Let's start with the goal that the government had for the 2014 elections. The government took over 12 seats in EU statistics. It's not a bourgeois think tank, unless you call Europe a bourgeois think tank. That's absolutely what you have to do. But in that case, the Minister of Finance will have to clarify what she means. I thought we could both rely on European statistics and take our starting point. We may have different opinions about that too. But I'll take my point of departure there. The aim of this government was to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. In 2014, Sweden was in place 12. To take my analogy with the bike uphill and downhill, there was global recession, and we were on an uphill hill. It was hard to step. But Sweden was in place 12. The finance minister and this government took over, and we've had a global boom. We've been downhill. What has happened is that we have collapsed in the statistics. To use that illustration, other countries have cycled past Sweden. We have collapsed to 17 among the countries of the European Union. Then this government simply abolishes the goal and says: We stop measuring against this. Was the reason, Madam President, on the part of the Minister for Finance and the Government, that the EU was thought to be a bourgeois think tank and that those statistics were not reliable? Is that why you stopped measuring against it? I don't really buy it. The goal has only been abolished. Given what the debate is about today, the low interest rate at the Riksbank is a partial explanation. This debate will continue. My conviction is that a large part of the debt will land on this government's economic policy and lack of reforms to make Sweden, relatively other countries, more competitive.
i-d021fa48987c4062-213	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl could list zero external assessors who share his view that it is the government's economic policy that causes the weak crown – zero. It's a home-made theory. I've never heard it anywhere else. Perhaps this is what you do when you are in opposition and think about what to say in an interpellation debate. Edward Riedl is trying to mix up the cards and talk about European unemployment statistics, which I have of course never questioned. But this is not about that in the first place, it is about the value of the crown. Edward Riedl, in his argument that the weak exchange rate is due to government policy, has not produced an example of an external judge who shares that view. We made sure during the last parliamentary term that we could pick up from the huge deficit that we inherited from the moderate government. The deficit was not due to the fact that at the end of the alliance years there was a financial crisis or a sharp global downturn in the economic cycle. On the contrary, it was on its way up. Nevertheless, major unfunded tax cuts were chosen, mostly for those who earned the most. This sent the bill to ordinary employees, pensioners and people who are sick and unable to work for various reasons. The bill was also sent to future generations by debting the entire Swedish people to lower taxes for those who earn the most. That is not how responsible economic policies are pursued. That is not the way to pursue good economic policy.
i-d021fa48987c4062-217	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me how much tax on petrol and diesel should be increased. I would like to start by saying that I share the concerns that many people have about the increasing prices of fuels. There are many areas in Sweden where you are completely dependent on the car. The recent price rises caused by rising oil prices and a weak crown hit people hard in these areas. In the long run, oil dependence is not sustainable, neither economically nor for the climate. I would also like to stress the importance of the whole of Sweden living and growing, while at the same time it is urgent to pursue an effective environmental policy. The January agreement provides for a strong green tax shift to take place. Precisely how this tax exchange is to be carried out, the government will return to. It is true that the fuel tax on petrol and diesel was increased last parliamentary term. There are several reasons for this. One of the reasons was that we inherited a large budget deficit at a time when there was a great need for joint investment. Another reason is that the Government considers it important that the environmental impact of taxes should not be eroded. In this context, it should also be noted that even the interpellant's party raised fuel taxes during its time in government. At the same time, the government has made efforts to find measures outside the tax area to achieve the national targets for reducing emissions from the transport sector, targets which have also been endorsed by the interpeller's party. In the 2018 budget proposal, the Government proposed a reduction obligation, which means that environmentally friendly fuels are mixed into fossil fuels. In connection with the introduction of the reduction obligation on 1 July 2018, the energy and carbon dioxide tax on petrol and diesel was reduced. At the same time, cars have become more and more fuel-efficient in the last 15 years, and today's used cars are drawing less and less fuel as the vehicle fleet is being changed. This means that it is not actually more expensive to drive a five-year-old car to work today than it was 15 years ago. The Government's ambition is to accelerate progress towards more fuel-efficient cars. When I took office as Minister of Finance, we had a system where ordinary people were allowed to pay for new car purchases via the tax. The super environmental car premium then went to the one who could afford a brand new car. Super-environmental car sprem ien we have replaced with a bonus – malus system. D e can afford to buy a new car with high CO2 emissions today pays the bonus for those who buy a car with low CO2 emissions. This is a way to steer towards a fleet of cars that emit less and are also cheaper to drive. The government has also set up a committee to review the travel allowance. The review is carried out, inter alia, to facilitate rural areas and to contribute to the 2030 transport climate target. The Travel Deduction Committee shall submit its report by 1 July 2019 at the latest, following the usual preparation in the Government Office.
i-d021fa48987c4062-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. How much has the cost increased for all people in Sweden who are dependent on the car and have no alternatives? Has the government counted on it? Can the Minister of Finance present some calculations or calculations for how climate policy costs are divided between city and country, between those who have alternatives to the car and those who do not? The government has increased petrol tax, diesel tax and vehicle tax and reduced travel tax. At the same time, climate emissions have increased in Sweden, despite all the penal taxes on Norrland, on rural areas and on everyone who is dependent on the car every day. The government's climate policy has received a lot of criticism for being expensive and ineffective. In addition, the burden of the government's climate policy is largely borne by people who do not have alternatives to the car while the government's efforts go to those who already have alternatives to the car. The electric bicycle premium, public transport spending and the electric car premium are mostly used by people in cities that already have good public transport and short distances. The costs may then be borne by all those who are not able to make the same use of these investments. That this is the way it is, I think is deeply unfair. But I'll be honest. The Moderates have not been good in this area in the past either. I myself have been very angry with my own party because it has historically increased fuel tax. We are in no way blameless. But we Moderates have finally understood that we cannot continue to increase already high fuel taxes in any way. When the M-KD budget was voted through last autumn, this meant that we in Sweden for the first time really reduced the tax on petrol and diesel. This is not a major reduction, but it is a trend break in the series of previous tax increases in this area. If you have done wrong, you can admit it and then start correcting it. The price of petrol and diesel is too high, and we must start reducing taxes. The fuel insurgency 2.0 has raised well over 600 000 people who think that fuel taxes are too high. This is a fantastic initiative, Madam President. They have gathered across party and block boundaries to speak up, and at least we Moderates have listened to the message they deliver. The question is whether the government intends to do so. Or are you going to turn a deaf ear when people try to say that it is far too expensive to refuel the car? Madam President, I would like The requirement from the petrol rebellion 2.0 is a petrol price of 12 SEK per litre. It may seem unreasonable at a time when the price of petrol and diesel is up to SEK 17 per litre. But five years ago, when Magdalena Andersson became Minister of Finance, a litre of petrol or diesel in Sweden cost a little over 12 SEK. In an election campaign at the time, the Minister expressed the fact that the price of petrol and diesel – then it was 12 SEK per litre – was quite high enough. It's not like that now. What has changed since then, according to the Minister for Finance? Why was more than $1 (U.S.) per litre high enough, and why is it not enough for $17 (U.S.) per litre today? Why continue to squeeze with increased taxes, overindexing and so on? Why, then, did $1 (U.S.), while we are going to raise prices even more when it is $1 (U.S.)? What has happened since then? Why does the Minister of Finance want to squeeze all those who have no alternatives to the car?
i-d021fa48987c4062-233	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl is asking if we've been counting on costs. I told you about that in my interpellation response. It is therefore not more expensive today to drive a five-year-old car to work than it was five years ago or for that matter ten or fifteen years ago. This is because our cars, even used cars, have become so much more efficient that it is not required to work anymore to be able to pay the cost of getting to work, even though the price of fuel has gone up. The question is whether development will be stopped or whether it will continue. If we look into the future, do we believe that oil prices will fall on the world market? Will demand decrease or supply of crude oil increase very strongly? On the contrary, it is highly likely that the price of crude oil will remain high or even increase in the future. What's the best answer to that? Is it to change so that we do not have to be so dependent on the price of crude oil? Today it is affected by uncertainty in Venezuela, developments in Libya and the way Opec acts. Is that what we should also be dependent on in the future when it comes to how expensive it is to drive to work or pick up the kids from football training? No, this shows the need to change. We can drive on Swedish biofuels that came from residual products from our forest production. We can run on Swedish-made electricity. That is what is needed in the future. In order to avoid being so dependent on the price of oil, we need to reschedule. When we make the transition, we'll make sure the whole country can be in it. That is why we are looking, among other things, at how we can strengthen the travel allowance and thus make it easier for people in sparsely populated areas. That is also why we are no longer doing what Edward Riedl's party did when it was in a position of government, namely to ensure that the assistant nurse, the caretaker or the catering staff had to pay the super-environmental car premium for those who can afford to buy new cars, that is, usually those in big cities. Now we are making sure that those who can afford to buy expensive petrol-drilling cars pay a premium for those who buy the eco-friendly cars. In this way, ordinary people in sparsely populated areas will not be responsible for the city's new car consumption.
i-d021fa48987c4062-238	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance says that she shares the concerns of those people who think it has become far too expensive to refuel. However, the conclusion drawn by the Minister for Finance from the concerns of ordinary people who depend on the car is that the tax needs to be increased considerably more. If just over 12 crowns a litre was a very high petrol price five years ago, my question is: What has happened during the five years when Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance, when not even 17 crowns are enough? Should the petrol and diesel price be 20 crowns a litre? When will the Minister for Finance and this government be satisfied? What should be the price? That is a reasonable question, given the answers given by the Minister for Finance. Then it is good for all of you who are listening to this debate that you now at least understand that just because the price at the petrol station has gone up from 12 crowns a litre to 17 crowns a litre it is not more expensive for you to go to work. It is good that the Minister for Finance can now explain it to you, if you do not understand it on his own. All the more than 600,000 people in the petrol rebellion 2.0 will understand that it has not become more expensive for them, despite the fact that the price of petrol and diesel has gone up from 12 crowns a litre to nearly 17 crowns a litre. It's just not more expensive for you to refuel... just so you can understand out there. That is the words of the Minister of Finance. She thinks it's perfectly all right for you. You should understand that it has not become more expensive. I cannot interpret the answers in any other way, Madam President. The cost increases of just over SEK 4 liters that have occurred since Magdalena Andersson became Minister of Finance are mainly carbon tax and VAT and nothing else. It is often said that they depend on the price of oil. Of course, the price of oil controls the cost of petrol and diesel. Concerns around the world also have an impact on the price of petrol and diesel. But the fact is that the single biggest explanation for the increased costs is the policy of the Minister of Finance and nothing else. It is mainly VAT and CO2 tax that explain the higher costs. We fully agree that we need to switch to fossil independence. There I and the Minister of Finance are not inconspicuous. But the question is: Do you have to squeeze people who do not have alternatives along the way? It does not get shorter to work just because the Minister of Finance increases the costs of petrol and diesel. The kids still need a ride. It does not help climate change to make those who do not have alternatives poorer. All the people who need the car for everyday life will be poorer with the finance minister's policy. Apparently that's the solution to the climate problems, according to her. I do not think so, Madam President. I think we can do a lot more to solve the challenges we face. It is, of course, a question of nuclear power and of ensuring that we have a secure supply of electricity. We must make sure that we expand so that we can cope with the supply of electricity. It is a major problem when people buy electric cars today that we are not able to pull in enough electricity in all areas. The question I asked from the outset remains: what has really changed with the Minister of Finance, when SEK 12 was quite enough before, but SEK 17 is certainly not enough today?
i-d021fa48987c4062-245	Madam President, I would like In fact, there may be some order in Parliament. It is not correct that most of the price increases that have taken place over the last five years are due to the tax. The tax stands for about 90 cents. The rest is due to other factors, particularly the increase in oil prices. It is also about the value of the crown. In fact, some order may be in the debate, Edward Riedl!
i-d021fa48987c4062-247	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister for Finance that there must be order. That should be the answer of the Minister for Finance too. I was given this task by the petroleum industries, which calculated what the cost increase was due to from the end of 2014– 2015, when Magdalena Andersson took over budgetary responsibility as Minister of Finance in this country. 2 SEK and 15 öre can be explained by VAT and carbon dioxide tax. Of course, at the bottom of the world market the price of oil and some other factors, such as crown rate and more. However, VAT is growing in line with these costs. If the Minister of Finance now claims that I am wrong in this House, Madam President, I would very much like to hear the Minister of Finance tell me exactly how much of the cost increase she believes VAT and CO2 taxation are in dollars and euros since the day she took over the budgetary responsibility, on 1 January 2015. If the Minister of Finance cannot present this, I think that the Minister of Finance should consider whether to have the strong wording the Minister of Finance has just had.
i-d021fa48987c4062-249	Madam President, I would like 90 cents is the task that I have received from the officials of the Ministry of Finance. We can compare the figures after the debate. 90 øre can be compared to the 80 øre increases that took place during eight years of alliance with diesel. We're going to have to reset our fleet. There are new technologies in terms of electricity, but there are also new technologies in terms of fossil-free. That's where we need to go. Long-term it is not sustainable to release as much as we do. It is not that the price of oil will fall in the long term. It's the other way around. In order for people to be able to live in rural and rural areas in Sweden in the long term, we need to change our fleet so that you can get to work and pick up the kids in kindergarten despite the oil price increases and the fluctuations that we see in the world market price of oil. We need to drive on domestically produced biofuels. We need to run on domestic electricity. This is how we ensure in the long term that we can live throughout the country and take the car to and from work and to and from the necessary activities. But above all, we have a responsibility to future generations to do what is necessary to stop climate change. It's for our children's and grandchildren's sake. Don't just listen to the gas riot! They collect many accounts on Facebook. You'll see how many people are behind those accounts. But they do not gather so many in their demonstrations. Look at the thousands and thousands of young people who are demonstrating! They filled Kungsträdgården in Stockholm. They are demonstrating all over Europe and all over the world so that you and I and other politicians will assume our responsibilities towards our future generations. I want to do it.
i-d021fa48987c4062-252	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I intend to work towards including clauses on cooperation on return and readmission of rejected Swedish citizens in the EU's free trade agreement with third countries. Both Afghanistan and other countries concerned have a public law obligation to reclaim their own citizens who have been rejected or expelled from Sweden. That obligation applies irrespective of whether there is a readmission agreement. This means that the same international legal obligation exists regardless of whether return and readmission clauses are included in other agreements. Readmission clauses are already included in the EU Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. These agreements also cover the field of trade policy. Trade policy also has a strong developmental impact, by increasing trade and economic growth leading to higher employment and thus poverty reduction in developing countries. The government supports trade policy instruments that provide incentives to create better economic opportunities on the ground. This is one of the reasons why the government has consistently worked to make it easier for the least developed countries to increase their trade, both through the unilateral facilitation of the EU and within the multilateral framework of the WTO. Madam President, I would like It is also important to recall that increased trade implies a reduced need for assistance. The government has initiated the Broader Relations project, where we are just going from having been a donor to developing broader economic partnerships with a number of countries. Not least, it is important that the jobs created by trade lead to a significant reduction in the risk of radicalisation. We have also seen that increasing exports from a developing country has a very positive impact on women's employment and economic empowerment. These trade policy measures are, of course, complementary to other aid for reconstruction in order to facilitate the return of severely affected countries.
i-Jxty96c2S47VbtCXVJHSVQ	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the answer from Minister Ann Linde! In its response, the Government attached importance to the development-promoting effects of increased trade. Of course, I share the view that increased trade and economic growth lead to higher employment and should therefore be seen as an effective means of combating poverty in developing countries. In other words, there is no division between me and Ann Linde on the importance of promoting trade with less developed countries in different ways. Having said that, however, it was not entirely what my question touched upon. It goes without saying that trade creates growth and prosperity in the developing countries with which the Union is increasing its trade. However, it does not have to affect at all how well cooperation on the potential readmission of the nationals of the State concerned works. These two questions should, in my opinion, be closely linked by the fact that we can reasonably make tougher demands of a state with which we have good trade relations. In addition, the Government is, of course, absolutely right that the designated country of Afghanistan, as well as other states, has a public law obligation to reclaim its own citizens who have been rejected or expelled from Sweden. It is an obligation which I do not wish to ignore or undermine in any way. On the other hand, it becomes clear to me that the obligation of international law does not weigh heavily enough if, despite this, it is in need of incorporating readmission clauses into various agreements like that with Afghanistan. If the obligation of international law on readmission had been fully respected by all parties, it would certainly not have been necessary to mention readmission in various agreements in the way that the Government itself points out. This in itself suggests that only people's legal obligations are not burdensome enough but require formalisation of readmission in various agreements which the Union links with third countries. Mr. Old President! However, my main question in the proposed interpellation concerned how the Government's position was more in principle to clauses in the EU's Free Trade Agreement with third countries on cooperation on return and readmission of rejected nationals from Sweden. In its reply, the Government notes, as I have mentioned, that there is international liability in this area and that there are already examples of agreements that include precisely readmission clauses. I therefore interpret the answer as saying that the Government is fundamentally in favour of readmission clauses in order to increase both the incentives and the conditions for readmission to take place in cases where it is at stake and that it is carried out in a structured manner. Mr. Old President! However, I would like to give the Government the opportunity to clarify whether or not my interpretation of her reply is correct. If it is correct, I would like to know whether she is then ready to work for readmission clauses to be included also in the free trade agreements and not just in the partnership and cooperation agreements referred to by the Government.
i-MkMVak95cfeGqjrppmkARW	Mr. Old President! In line with the conclusions of the European Council on migration in October 2018, trade constitutes one of the policy areas to contribute to a better implementation of readmission. The EPA with Japan, concluded in December 2018, includes such a clause. The EU's trade agreement with Japan states that the increased mobility of natural persons requires full cooperation on the return and readmission of persons residing in the EU or Japan in breach of the rules of entry and temporary residence of the Agreement. The most important factor of forced return is that the countries of origin of the persons are prepared to accept those who have been rejected. There is a commitment in international law to always receive their refugees regardless of whether or not there are any clauses. The added value of the agreement is that readmission should take place in a legally secure form and in the best possible form. This is why the government is actively contributing to dialogue with the beneficiary countries. When the government took office in 2014, we did not have a return agreement with Afghanistan. We do now. We did not have effective cooperation with Morocco. We do now. Above all, it is the young people who have come from North Africa and stayed in Europe who can now be rejected to Morocco. These are some examples. There are other countries where we have good cooperation to make return more effective. It is crucial that we work together at European level on these issues. For example, we do this by having association agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Kosovo and Ukraine. The implementation of Turkey needs to be strengthened. Negotiations are ongoing with Tunisia on the link between the trade agreement and readmission. Many important measures are being taken at EU level. At present, important work is under way to revise the Return Directive in order to ensure more uniform cooperation on readmission for third countries. The proposal imposes an explicit obligation on third-country nationals to cooperate with the authorities in the return process. At the same time, Member States are required to establish a system of self-return support. Member States are also given increased possibilities to limit the time limit for voluntary departures and may in some cases fail to notify them. In order to ensure the enforcement of return decisions, common criteria for assessing the risk of non-compliance and a time limit for a possible initial maximum period of three months are also proposed. I believe that these measures have improved with regard to readmission. This also applies by having clauses in free trade agreements.
i-d021fa48987c4062-272	Mr. Old President! Thank you again for the answer from the Government. I am pleased that the government has taken action in this area and is also in favour of more such action being taken at European level. The question is how to ensure that this is done in practice. I personally do not believe that the obligations of international law weigh heavily enough. This also applies to how, despite formalising it in various agreements, it ensures that it will actually happen in the end. Undeniably, all agreements with relevant states – states that may be more relevant than Japan in this context – can be discussed. These may be partnership and cooperation agreements, free trade agreements or individual readmission agreements concluded by Sweden with third countries that are important and relevant to the issue in question. The Government is right to have partnership and cooperation agreements that include a readmission clause. To mention just two examples, we have agreements with Afghanistan, which we have already touched on, and also Armenia. What I would like to add to the speech is rather how pressure can ensure that readmission takes place in the forms expressed in the individual agreements in which they are sought. In these particular cases, I think there are very clear incentives in this area. This applies, for example, to EU development cooperation with Afghanistan, which in 2014 – 2020 is governed by an indicative programme. It consists of EUR 200 million per year paid to Afghanistan. The agreement with Armenia also attaches importance to the country receiving financial support from the EU to help achieve the objectives of the agreement, and part of the agreement applies, as has been mentioned, to readmission. As agreements include readmission, it is self-evident to me that this money must be withheld if problems arise with the readmission process itself. It is precisely these sanctions or hypothetical other sanctions that I would like to ask the Government about. Does she agree that such financial sanctions should be used against states which do not comply with existing readmission agreements or those which contain parts specifically related to readmission? If we are to focus more on the trade agreements themselves, we can see that this was mentioned in the trade agreement with Japan, but the economic partnerships that the EU has entered into with Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, the South African Development Community and the East African Community make no mention of this. There are reasonable agreements where a readmission clause is more relevant than the agreement with Japan. Of course, I think it is wrong that we do not have this at the moment. Finally, I would like to repeat my question to the Government: should financial sanctions be imposed on those who do not comply with the readmission clauses in the agreements that already exist? And is the Government prepared to press for this type of clause to be incorporated into future trade agreements, economic partnerships and more?
i-d021fa48987c4062-280	Mr. Old President! We fully agree that legal certainty and order in the asylum system for return are crucial for Sweden to be able to maintain a long-term, sustainable and humane migration policy. This presupposes that a person who has received a rejection decision leaves the country as soon as possible. Primarily, this should be done voluntarily, but if necessary, it can be done by coercion. To get more people with removal decisions to return, the government has taken a number of measures. That is why we have a relatively high rate of return. Over the past five years, more than 70 000 people have left Sweden. This result is the result of better return tools being provided to the authorities. The number of police officers will increase by 10,000 by 2024. There has also been an increased opportunity to carry out workplace inspections where people without a residence permit have often been seen staying. The Finnish Immigration Service is now also expanding detention capacity in order to carry out expulsions responsibly and effectively. The number of detention centres has been greatly expanded. This is an increase of 80 percent since 2016. Further detention places are now opening in Skåne, and a completely new repository will be completed in Luleå 2020. Some of the measures taken have entered into force, others are being dealt with at the moment. One example is the report of the Return Investigation. The report has been referred to and is currently being prepared in the Government Office. It is crucial to be able to clarify the identity of foreigners who reside in Sweden in order to maintain security in the country and ensure that people cannot travel to or from Sweden under false identity. The investigation proposes that persons' identity documents should be seized until the person is authorised to stay in Sweden or leave the country. These measures are also crucial from a trade perspective. We are negotiating the part of the trade in services relating to the movement of natural persons in order to deliver a service – what is called Mode 4 in trade agreements. Since the mid-00s, exports of services have developed stronger than exports of goods and become increasingly important for economic growth. Sweden has long had a prominent place in global trade in services. It is not least important for those who have valid reasons to stay in Sweden that the capacity to grant a residence permit is not blocked by a large amount of resources being spent on the readmission of already expelled persons. It must be possible for companies operating in Sweden to attract global talent and experts who contribute to the development of Swedish business. Therefore, the handling of travel documents and residence permits is a matter not only for the law enforcement authorities but also for my and the government's trade policy.
i-d021fa48987c4062-286	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I naturally support many of the measures taken at national level to seek a more controlled asylum process and to achieve more effective readmission and so on. In fact, I believe that this was the first time that a Social Democrat has said that we fully agree on at least part of the asylum process. I am pleased that this is the case, as expressed by the Government. If I am not mistaken, the average process for a readmission in 2018 was up to almost 200 days, which of course is a very long time span. Once again, however, I would like to depart from the very limited focus on the question that the Government had in its response and raise it in a broader trade policy perspective. It is obviously good that measures are taken nationally in Sweden to try to keep track of this and to act in different ways. However, the question that I still do not feel I have been answered is whether it would also be reasonable for the Swedish Government and the Government in the negotiations they have with the EU and in future trade agreements and so on to press for it to comply with some form of financial sanction if the clauses incorporated in the agreements are not complied with. In the case of Afghanistan, it may be that you do not pay out the EUR 200 million that you currently pay out each year. In other contexts, financial sanctions may be imposed in the event of non-compliance with agreements involving readmission. Does the Government think that this would be reasonable, and does it intend to work for this in the future?
i-d021fa48987c4062-290	Mr. Old President! The first thing I want to say is that, if we have agreements, there are, of course, sanctions. I can take a recent example of South Korea not signing the ILO conventions on the right to organise and so on. That is why the EU has now sued South Korea to comply with the agreement. Of course, all agreements must have sanctions, otherwise there will be no point in them. However, I am somewhat opposed to Tobias Andersson drawing a picture of the fact that readmission does not work and that there is therefore a need for additional clauses. I believe that we have launched so many measures that it has started to work much better. As I said earlier, 70 000 people have been allowed to return in recent years. This means that there have been about 1 000 people per month who have been allowed to return because they have not received asylum in Sweden. In the long term, I believe that migration and hence the need for readmission are reduced by ensuring that there are employment opportunities and economic growth where asylum seekers come from. There I am absolutely sure that trade policy can contribute by creating more jobs. Our own country is an excellent example. We have an export of goods and services equivalent to half our bnp. Every third job is due to export. These figures are also crucial for those who can stay in Sweden to be able to offer employment. Then we can also take advantage of the competence of the new Swedes and let them become bridge builders to their old home countries.
i-d021fa48987c4062-294	Mr. Old President! Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me about the reason why Sweden does not participate in the UN negotiations on corporate responsibility for human rights and what I intend to do in order for Sweden to introduce binding rules to regulate Swedish companies' conduct abroad. Companies have a great responsibility to respect human rights. But the answer to the question is not a new convention, but better application of the existing regulations. It is better to continue to uphold the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights adopted by consensus in 2011 and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises updated in 2011. We need to continue to work for more countries to adopt action plans on business and human rights – not least Ecuador and South Africa, which are the driving force behind this convention. Here the EU has been at the forefront. 16 EU Member States have already adopted action plans. Sweden's action plan has been followed up, and we continue to look at the recommendations that Statskontoret made in its review last year. For Sweden and the EU, it has also been important in the negotiations in Geneva that a possible convention should be drawn up in line with the UN principles on business and human rights, the so-called Ruggie principles. For example, it is crucial that all companies are included, not just multinationals, as has been advocated by some countries that have been the driving force behind the negotiations. I would like to emphasise that if states fulfilled their responsibilities they would get a long way in the work on entrepreneurship and human rights. A new convention that is not comprehensive or based on the majority of UN Member States and that makes a distinction between different types of company is therefore not the right way to go. Such a convention will not have the effect and impact that we need. We need to step up our efforts to defend and implement its framework, rather than creating new standards. New legislation can have far-reaching consequences that are difficult to grasp. Before moving forward, it is important that we get a better picture of how the mandatory sustainability legislation, which has recently been introduced, has fallen out. We are engaged in a dialogue with companies and civil society organisations on, for example, sustainability reporting for human rights and entrepreneurship. The EU's conflict mineral order – gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten – is an example of this. In the negotiations on the EU regulation, Sweden pushed for mandatory rules for EU importers of these minerals, so that their imports will not finance mineral extraction that can cause conflicts and enormous human suffering. The proposal put forward by Statskontoret is that the Government should set up an investigation. We will continue to analyse the large number of proposals and recommendations. Then we will see how we can take these further and in what ways. We are also continuing our efforts for the so-called National Pact, the NKP. The NKP has strong credibility in dealing with various cases that have been received.
i-d021fa48987c4062-305	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister Linde. The dismantling of democracy and human rights reduces the chances of solving global environmental problems. These issues are highly interlinked. If the global sustainability goals are to be achieved, the business community must be fully involved. How do we get companies to drive human rights, not just here but along the whole chain, from raw materials to finished products? In this context, Minister Linde believes that it is better to continue to uphold the UN's guiding principles for business and human rights. The problem is that countries are not consistent or obliged to impose responsibilities on companies to act in respect of human rights. A binding agreement should regulate the responsibility of companies for the entire global supply chain and facilitate cross-border conduct. Several countries are reluctant to introduce binding human rights standards on their own, fearing that this would be a competitive disadvantage for companies. On the other hand, uniform international standards would create a level playing field for companies. Here, Sweden should be leading or at least leading in the negotiation of such an agreement. Similarly, working towards the introduction of voluntary national action plans by other countries does not solve the problem, especially in relation to the actions of transnational companies. Despite the answer, I wonder how the government intends to work with transnational companies and their responsibilities on human rights issues. I do not see how it will be dealt with. Would it not be wise for Sweden to contribute to this responsibility by participating in negotiations for a binding agreement at the UN?
i-d021fa48987c4062-310	Mr. Old President! Sweden has its own action plan for entrepreneurship and human rights. There are several key components that should be given to countries that express ambitions for sustainable entrepreneurship. These include a national contact point, a mandatory sustainability report that is more ambitious than the EU directives, procurement laws, the so-called whistleblower law and more stringent wording on the sustainability of our export support authorities. The government's explicit expectation is that the Swedish business community will follow the international guidelines in all countries. I often meet companies, and I think they have a very positive attitude to this from the Swedish companies. It is striking that many of the countries that have been the driving force behind a global convention are states that lack relevant national action plans and whose ambitions for entrepreneurship and human rights are often far behind those of Sweden and the EU. In addition to the initiators, it is also other countries. These countries must assume their responsibilities for entrepreneurship and human rights and not hide behind a convention limited to transnational companies. Today, we already have a number of private operators who have been released and criticised, which in itself serves as covert protection for the national and state companies that the Convention would not cover. In addition, several of the UN's largest Member States have sidelined the negotiations. The government continues to have high ambitions and wants to work for global solutions to tackle inequalities, discrimination and exploitation that exist at the intersection between entrepreneurship and human rights.
i-d021fa48987c4062-313	Mr. Old President! Is it not a good thing that countries that lack for various reasons the relevant national action plans on entrepreneurship and human rights are in favour of binding global conventions that should reasonably also include these countries? Could it not be that for some countries it is easier to get involved in commitments that apply to all countries, because there will be competition on equal terms if everyone is bound to the same rules? Today, Sweden is not the country in Europe that has the leadership shirt when it comes to demanding responsibility from companies. France, for example, has adopted its own law for French companies to take responsibility for human rights and the environment. In addition, France actively participated in the negotiations for a global binding agreement. Given how close human rights issues are to environmental issues, this is a top priority if we are to achieve global environmental objectives. The government advocates voluntary solutions, but this has not produced the desired effect. Mr. Old President! The Government of Linde highlighted the mandatory sustainability legislation as a way forward. But only in February this year Amnesty, Fair Action and Diakonia presented a review of the Sustainability Report that showed major shortcomings. It actually recommends, just as Statskontoret did, a mandatory and continuous impact assessment for Swedish companies regarding their impact on human rights. The introduction of mandatory human rights due diligence is something that I hope the government will continue to work on.
i-d021fa48987c4062-317	Mr. Old President! For several reasons, the government believes that a new global convention on human rights and entrepreneurship is still not the way forward. What is needed is the proper application of existing regulations. I would also like to remind you that the sustainability report that we have is not voluntary but laid down by law. This is about getting countries to safeguard and fully implement the UN's guiding principles on entrepreneurship and human rights. It was adopted by consensus by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011. In addition, existing national and international legislation and regulations on corruption must be applied at all levels. As a matter of fact, there are problematic factors that contribute to my hesitation that Sweden should sign this global convention. Early in the negotiations in Geneva, it was clear that a possible convention would be difficult to design in line with the UN's guiding principles on entrepreneurship and human rights. The particular problem is that it does not apply to all companies, but only to multinationals. As you know, not least here in Sweden, there are both state and national companies in discussions that are guilty of various abuses. Excluding them from a global convention sends out completely the wrong signal about the responsibility of states for their own companies. Moreover, such a solution risks creating an unequal economic playing field. We in the European Union have called for a more transparent process, not least to safeguard the established practice of UN negotiations for several decades. Sweden also attended the fourth round of negotiations, and we contributed to the common EU position. Its main message is to continue to promote entrepreneurship and human rights but not primarily through new, binding conventions. Some have therefore interpreted the EU's position as a restraint force in sustainable entrepreneurship, when it is the opposite: the Union stands for an ambitious approach. Today, 16 EU Member States have adopted national action plans on entrepreneurship and human rights. The EU is also working on comprehensive legislation standardised around sustainable financial markets, and Sweden is updating its human rights action plan to become a platform for sustainable entrepreneurship. The EU and Sweden are thus a strong political voice for human rights worldwide.
i-d021fa48987c4062-324	Mr. Old President! Is it not the absence of tools for states to hold transnational companies accountable for human rights? Is it not the case that there are legal gaps between states that need to be resolved on the international stage? If we now had a national mandatory so-called human rights due diligence and a global binding agreement, would it not push forward in terms of human rights and the environment? We often talk about trade as a way of pushing these issues forward, but we are not willing to commit ourselves to fully respecting it. This means that the development progresses very slowly and in some respects not forward at all. This promotes businesses that do not respect this but perhaps just write fine words in their sustainability reports. The companies that work consistently with this are forced to compete with global companies that have as their business idea to make profits by exploiting people and destroying their lives. Here we must take our responsibility and ensure that companies continue to develop and force them to compete under other conditions. Mr. Old President! The Government Linde mentions that Sweden pushed for the conflict mineral directive, but it only applies to four minerals and should be expanded. There is a need for a broader period of time, so what is the next step in this regard?
i-d021fa48987c4062-329	Mr. Old President! Had it been as simple as this convention to solve the problems of entrepreneurship and MR, we would of course have signed it. But we think it's the other way around. We believe that it is a cloud to protect ourselves behind those who do not actually want to keep track of their own companies and private companies, but only believe that it should apply to multinational companies. New legislation, if it is to be binding, can have consequences that are very difficult to understand. Therefore, before we take such a possible step, we need to get a better picture of the actually mandatory sustainability legislation that we have just introduced. We engage in such a dialogue with companies and civil society organisations on sustainability reporting, human rights and entrepreneurship to make it more effective. We are also discussing this with other countries. The EU regulation on conflict minerals is an example of how Sweden has affected. We pushed for mandatory rules for EU importers of these minerals and succeeded in doing so. However, we do not believe that it should be opened up now. It was really difficult to get this conflict mineral regulation, which became binding law. If we open it, we risk losing what we have won. If we first get this regulation through, we can then take another step. But let's not open it up, because then there's a risk that it won't be anything at all. Statskontoret has made proposals that the Government should set up an investigation to see how all these issues have turned out. We are analysing this, because there are very many proposals that Statskontoret has made. In addition, I would like to underline how important the government thinks these proposals are, and we will come back this autumn with new and even better proposals.
