i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-7	Mr President, I would like to The value of public procurement in Sweden corresponds to one sixth of GDP. It is a market worth SEK 683 billion. Public procurement should take a much greater place in the Swedish debate. It is important that the state, municipalities, county councils and regions receive as much as possible from the tax money used. We will fight corruption and negligence. The citizens are to benefit as much as possible from their tax money, and much of the responsibility for it rests with this House. Companies should be able to bid and compete on equal terms. This is important for companies but even more important for taxpayers. For the fourth time, the Swedish Procurement Authority and the Swedish Competition Authority have produced a joint report containing statistics on public procurement. The average number of tenderers per procurement continues to decrease, while we are getting more and more contracts with just one tenderer. It is a problem that risks leading to more expensive procurement and less benefit for taxpayers. Political decisions must help to increase knowledge here, and then we must take the necessary decisions. We Moderates want to commission the Procurement Authority to disseminate knowledge about the possibility of including life cycle analysis as a factor in public procurement. If we make tougher demands in public procurement, public consumption can also make a real contribution to climate change. Ultimately, climate-smart consumption is based on actual emissions throughout the chain when something is produced. Sweden ranks as one of the world's most innovative and competitive economies. For a small trade-dependent country on the edge of Europe, a good business and innovation climate remains crucial. It is through trade that we have become one of the richest countries in the world, and it is through continued trade that we shall continue to be so. We Moderates want more innovation and functional procurement in public services to continue to support the development that has made Sweden the rich country we are today. Open procurement documents that demand function create creativity. By describing the function a product should have instead of describing an existing product, we create a climate for innovation. If we become better at purchasing function instead of finished products, taxpayers can get more and better solutions for their tax money. In addition, Swedish companies can develop new solutions on the Swedish market that they can then export. This creates new jobs and increased prosperity in our country. One area where I hope that we Moderates will be better, and hopefully all parties in Parliament, is to make equal demands on Swedish and foreign actors. Today, Sweden takes precedence over everything from environmental requirements to animal welfare. These are often good demands, but they increase production. When, in public procurement, we do not impose the same requirements on production as in our legislation, Swedish companies are disadvantaged. Let me take an example. Political decisions made in the Swedish parliament mean that Sweden's farmers are subject to the EU's toughest environmental requirements and toughest animal welfare rules. This makes Swedish food more expensive to produce. The problem is that the same politicians who introduced the tougher environmental requirements and better animal protection then opt out of Swedish food because it has become too expensive. I believe that the state, municipality and county councils should not be allowed to procure food or other products produced to lower requirements than Swedish legislation requires. Swedish law should be the floor of public sector procurement requirements. I mean, we should get better here. There is room for further improvement. Mr President, I would like to For time to come, I only ask for the approval of reservation 9.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-17	Mr President, I would like to Public procurement is a report which, like other reports, includes a wide range of policy areas ranging from social criteria and food production to innovation and functional procurement and animal welfare. It is also animal welfare that the two reservations of the Swedish Democrats here today are basically about. It is an issue that I have raised in this context over the last three years, but since the committee has rejected the proposals, I am making a new attempt today in the hope that the previous position has been reassessed and is beginning to stand up for Swedish animal welfare. Why do I say start standing up for Swedish animal welfare? Because today many Swedes are eating meat from animals that have been ruthlessly slaughtered without any respect for the dignity of the animal. The practice of this type of religious slaughter involves a prolonged death course in which animals are killed and bled without stunning, resulting in completely unnecessary suffering, pain and distress. The animals — sheep, lamb, and cows — are locked into a position in what can be described as a tumble drier and turned upside down in an unnatural and painful way, to finally have the throat cut. Nerves, arteries and gullet and trachea are cut off, but the knife does not reach deep enough, which means that the blood continues to be pumped up to the brain. After this, the animal can live for up to 11 minutes before it finally meets its fate and dies of blood loss. One veterinarian describes the procedure in the following way: a veterinary surgeon would immediately remove my identification if I did something similar. ..................................................... Such meat ends up on the Swedish dinner tables, and I'll tell you how. Slaughterhouses in other countries over-produce ritually slaughtered meat in order not to have a shortage of it, and then it is exported and sold as normal meat in other countries. In a 2011 report, the French Ministry of Agriculture estimated that 40 to 60 percent of the animals were slaughtered without stunning, even though the demand for ritually slaughtered meat accounted for only 10 percent. This means that the remaining 30 – 50 percent are exported and sold to other countries. According to a study by Svenska Dagbladet, none of the country's largest charkgrossists were able to report control reports or contract texts that guarantee that meat from animals that have been tormented to death does not reach the Swedish consumers. A former CEO of the Meat and Chark companies, a specialist organisation for the meat industry, has also confirmed that this type of meat reaches the Swedish grocery stores. As there is a market for these products, an increasing number of meat producers are moving towards these slaughter methods. According to the Commission, 75% of bovine animals are slaughtered in some EU countries without stunning, and in some producer countries all sheep and lamb meat is slaughtered with that approach. All in all, it is beyond any reasonable doubt that this is something that occurs and that it is something that occurs often. Then you have to ask yourself: What do we do about it? Either the politicians in this House can put their heads in the sand and not handle it – this seems uncomfortable for some parties – or they can grab themselves and live up to the reputation of the country with the world's best animal welfare. It's no harder than that. In the Committee on Finance, it is a motion on which we have a position today, but I would like to highlight our proposals in their entirety. We want a requirement that all food purchased through public procurement is guaranteed to be from animals slaughtered in accordance with Swedish animal welfare rules. We want Sweden to seek derogations within the EU so that we can have an import ban on ritually slaughtered meat. And we want Sweden within the EU to work towards a general ban on this brutal form of slaughter. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats have here and now concrete proposals on the table that they already have the opportunity to vote in favour of. The question that members of the Swedish Parliament should ask themselves is whether they stand up for basic animal welfare or whether they stand up for ritual slaughter. For the Swedish Democrats, the answer is self-evident. I request the approval of reservations 4 and 7.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-29	Mr President, I would like to In a public procurement, a main contractor has a coordination responsibility for the working environment but no main responsibility. Each individual subcontractor has the responsibility for the work environment for its part of a contract. When someone dies from their work, which has occurred very often here in Sweden in recent times, it is a sorrow for all of us, but of course especially for the loved ones. Christian Wikström died 26 years young when he was installing stairs during the construction of Vattenfall's new headquarters. Despite repeated alarms about safety deficiencies during construction, the work continued, and Christian died. The stairway fell over him. But the prosecutor could not judge anyone responsible even though the shortcomings were known by everyone. The prosecutor called the building a death trap, but no one had to take any primary responsibility under current legislation. The prosecutor couldn't identify the company that was guilty. Peab, who was the main contractor, blamed the subcontractors, and they blamed Peab. According to the prosecutor, all the companies involved in the stairway building in which Christian died had violated the Work Environment Act. The prosecutor in the case believes that it should be the case that the main contractor has full responsibility and that the legislation should be amended. Last autumn, Construction went out and warned of the ever longer chains of subcontractors. They saw significant risks with it. Coordination doesn't work very well on a construction project with 30 to 40 companies. It's like there's gonna be a crash. You don't have time to tune in. Who is responsible for what? This is what Johnny Rindebrandt, the work environment manager at Bygg Stockholm – Gotland, says. Often it is actually a management company that runs the work in building housing, and it does not even have its own staff to build. Instead, 30 to 40 subcontractors are taken in. Each entrepreneur thinks of his own, and one does not really know what the other does. A striking example of this is the so-called towers here in Stockholm, with 30 subcontractors. Construction materials are dragged through the stairs. That's 12 floors. Construction elevator missing. There are no escape routes. Many testify to unreasonable and unsustainable working conditions. The Left Party has exercised that you should only be allowed to have two subcontractors in a public procurement precisely to ensure who has the responsibility for the working environment. There will be major problems when there are long subcontracting chains in terms of public procurement. These chains often characterise projects in the construction sector but also exist in other sectors. Metal's activities, for example, are severely affected. In order for us to get to grips with the responsibility for the work environment, the Left Party therefore believes that we should introduce a new rule in the Public Procurement Act that you should only have two subcontractors. Weaknesses in working conditions and working conditions often also increase the further down the supply chain. One simply does not know who is primarily responsible for the working environment. Workers are even injured and killed at work, but who is responsible becomes difficult to clarify with current legislation. Instead of stating that long subcontracting chains are a risk to health and safety at work, the committee notes that there is already legislation on entrepreneurial responsibility for wage claims and discourages exercise. Yes, it is good that there is entrepreneurial responsibility for wage claims, but there is not for the work environment. I regret the committee's response and believe that the committee should listen to those affected by the consequences of these long sub-contracting chains. Why, for example, do the Social Democrats not think that this is something to be done about? Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 12. Finally, I would like to highlight the fact that some of the companies that win public contracts and thus benefit from paid tax funds and can make profits on them do not always want to pay the tax they have to pay, but are registered in tax havens. Some of them are in the welfare sector. Others are found in other sectors. However, the municipalities cannot, under the legislation in force in a procurement procedure, require companies not to be registered in tax havens. I can understand that there are some complications in establishing such requirements. That must of course be taken into account. But at least I think it would be reasonable for the government at EU level to try to work to bring about legislative changes that allow municipalities and county councils to make demands that those involved in procurements should not be registered in tax havens. In fact, it is our tax money that is at stake, and if they want to take part of it, they should also pay taxes here.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-40	Mr President, I would like to The issue of public procurement is a source of great commitment. These are huge sums of money, and they are our tax money. Wherever you visit companies, organisations or authorities, they can testify to the complications, the perceived hassle and the importance of constantly developing our procurement system. Here is the national strategy, with the Procurement Authority at the forefront, very important. The efforts that have been made have made a lot of things better, but still, for example, appeal proceedings are very time-consuming, and they are perceived as complicated. It can be big but for those who need to make an investment and who are engaged in that procurement. When it comes to direct procurement itself, it should be said that it is not the case that public procurement protects against everything. It protects against the squandering of our tax money. The money we take into tax should not go to fattening any individual organization or company. The procurement is to squeeze prices so that we get the most value for money. But we know that there are lots of municipalities and authorities that sit with all kinds of strange things they have bought on themselves over the years. Public procurement does not protect against direct procurement. There's other things that need to be done. It can be an ambitious internal audit, transparent decision-making processes and a high level of responsibility of those who ultimately, in a municipality for example, make decisions on investments to be made. We Liberals are pleased that so much is being met and that there is an ambitious programme that is widely accepted by the parliamentary parties and by the government in this case. Nevertheless, we are once again highlighting the importance of social enterprises receiving extra attention. The issue has been up before in committee. For us Liberals, it is important that they have a greater opportunity to participate in public procurement, given the contribution that welfare companies can make, not least by means of ideas. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2, Mr President.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-44	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the FiU34 report of the Committee on Finance, a motion for a resolution on public procurement. During the last parliamentary term, the Social Democratic-led Government took many important steps in public procurement. The contracting authority was set up. A national procurement strategy was agreed. On 1 January 2017, the new procurement legislation entered into force and has provided for more comprehensive legislation in this area. Procurement is an important instrument for achieving social policy objectives. Taking environmental and social considerations into account in procurement contributes to sustainable development and to achieving national environmental quality objectives. The value of procurement obligations in Sweden is estimated at nearly SEK 700 billion annually. In other words, it is very much money that is used within the system. For us Social Democrats, it is important that these tax funds are used in the best possible way. They should not be used to dump wages, promote poor working environment and give rogue companies the opportunity to compete out serious companies that take responsibility. The new legislation and the introduction of the Procurement Authority and their work to inform and provide support and guidance as well as the work on the procurement strategy have increased the knowledge of more public authorities and other contracting activities on procurement, but also the fact that they have started to use more strategic procurement. Procurement requirements can promote innovation, environmental objectives and various social objectives. Interest in social sustainability and using procurement as a tool to achieve societal goals has steadily increased. Even small authorities with relatively limited procurement can make a difference and lead by example. Mr President, I would like to Today's report has several reservations. Some of them are about animal welfare and food production. The national food strategy with a view to 2030 was adopted by the Riksdag in 2017 and is the first Swedish food strategy that covers the entire food chain. It is a long-term strategy that will contribute to the full exploitation of the potential of the entire food chain. This means an increased and sustainable production of food, which can lead to more jobs and sustainable growth across the country and provide consumers, regardless of their background, better for releases to make informed choices. The food strategy creates conditions for growth throughout the food chain and thus supports increased Swedish food production and an increase in the proportion of Swedish and organic food consumption. Why, then, am I highlighting this, Mr President, when we are debating the law on public procurement today? You can ask yourself that question. Because every year municipalities, county councils and state authorities buy food for just over SEK 12 billion. In the new procurement legislation, it is possible to set animal welfare requirements in line with Swedish legislation in public procurement. Nevertheless, only 60% make these demands. We think that is far too little. We need to take greater responsibility for ensuring that the food served in our preschools, schools and nursing homes is of good quality and that we can guarantee that animals have been treated in a dignified way and are not packed with antibiotics. Here there are great differences in livestock farming between Sweden and many other countries. The government has now begun to investigate how this legislation can be designed taking into account, among other things, EU legislation and international commitments. The government wants it to be mandatory for all procurements of animal food to require production to have taken place with high standards of animal welfare and low use of antibiotics. This is good for us consumers, but it is also good for Swedish agriculture and for food production. The high demands on the environment and health that we have in Sweden and that the Swedish farmers live up to should not be a competitive disadvantage to those foreign producers who do not reach the same level. Today's report also contains reservations about social criteria, social enterprises and the ability of non-profit organisations to provide welfare services. Today, current legislation allows social considerations to be taken into account in public procurement. The procurement authority is actively working to provide support and knowledge. During the last term of office, it was decided on the proposal "Enhanced permit requirements and specific rules for welfare procurement", which included proposals on the possibility of reserving certain procurements to idea-based operators and proposals for simplified procurement rules for the procurement of welfare services below the threshold of the EU Directive. The proposals made use of national room for manoeuvre in order to have simpler and more flexible rules for the procurement of welfare services. Much has been done in recent years, Mr President, to advance the positions in the area of procurement with a view to achieving more sustainable economic, ecological and social development. I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-56	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what Gunilla Carlsson mentioned. Much has been done, but we can see that there is still some work to be done. I would, of course, like to dwell on what I mentioned in my main speech, namely the lack of primary responsibility for the work environment in workplaces with several subcontractors. In the Swedish labour market, the number of fatal accidents has increased sharply: from 34 in 2015 to 50 in 2018. Moreover, this year has definitely not started with any better direction. Every person who dies at work is one too many – I think everyone agrees. What, then, can we do to prevent future workplace accidents and fatal accidents? Part of the answer is to limit the number of subcontractors in the workplace, so that it becomes clear who has the main responsibility for the work environment. This would prevent accidents, and if the accident were to occur, it would at least be possible to bring a legal action against the guilty party. That is why I am disappointed with the response given to me by the committee, which does not even address the issue of the shortcomings in the working environment and its consequences, but merely states that wage claims can be collected. I wonder, Gunilla Carlsson: How do the Social Democrats view the number of subcontractors? Is it reasonable that there are 30 to 40 so that no one can be held to account? The risk of workplace accidents is increasing. Is it reasonable for it to continue like this?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-60	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ulla Andersson for the question. I agree that we can never ever accept that people die in the workplace or suffer serious injuries there. Here we are in complete agreement. This is also something that Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson has made clear about – we want zero tolerance for workplace deaths. Is the solution not to have subcontractors or to be more clear in terms of responsibility and health and safety legislation? It is perhaps even more important to ensure that every employer, whether a main contractor or a subcontractor, has a responsibility for the employees of the company who are assigned to it. Here I would rather see that the legislation on health and safety at work is looked at and that all employers take that responsibility. What we are highlighting here is the change that has just been made, namely that the employee should receive his or her salary even if he or she belongs to a subcontracting firm. It's important. What Ulla Andersson highlighted is something that we Social Democrats will also continue to work on.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-64	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is good that the Minister for Labour works with zero tolerance. I am also pleased that Gunilla Carlsson clarifies the responsibility. However, there is already a responsibility for the work environment for the employer in the legislation on health and safety at work. The problem arises when there are many subcontractors at the same workplace. It's maybe seven or eight companies working on the same thing. Who's going to charge the DA? That's the main problem. We are open to discussing different solutions. The aim is to prevent accidents. We have suggested that the number of subcontractors should be limited in order to make it clear who is responsible for the workplace's work environment. This is something that the prosecutor I referred to also thinks is necessary because it is not possible to prosecute the person who is actually responsible because everyone blames everyone. It goes without saying that if there are 30 to 40 different companies in a workplace, one does some here, one does some there, something happens here and something happens there. The chain is long, and it is easy to renounce responsibility. I hope that the Social Democrats will respond differently to such motions in the future and really deal with the issue.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-70	Mr President, I would like to I agree that all employers, regardless of whether they are main contractors or subcontractors, should take responsibility for ensuring that those who work have a good working environment. No one should risk not coming home from work, but everyone should have as good opportunities as possible. Here we can look at the legislation on health and safety at work. I'm sure it needs to be tightened up. No court should have to think about who is responsible if, in all probability, you end up in a situation where people actually lose their lives. I very much hope that we will achieve zero tolerance. No one should have to worry when you go to work.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-73	Mr President, I would like to Public procurement is an extremely important tool for the objectives set in this House and at local level so that public funds are used wisely and actively. I see a need in Sweden for a cultural change so that public procurement is more used as a strategic tool and less treated as a regulatory framework that prevents it. All too often we come across stories where both companies and clients perceive public procurement as an obstacle. It is therefore extremely important and welcome that the government has actively worked with procurement as a strategic tool. A completely new authority, a new strategy, lays the foundation for much better work on the issues ahead. With an agency in place, we can ensure that there is sufficient knowledge and competence in public authorities and administrations to enable them to use the tool strategically to achieve goals and ensure that public activities are of good quality in all parts. One example where you work on this issue strategically is the Environmental Goal Council. There are 18 agencies working together to create strategic collaboration to achieve the environmental objectives decided by the Riksdag. There the Procurement Authority has now been included, precisely to identify important tools. It works actively to find collaboration points. It's a lot about education and finding an innovative way of working. There are many areas where I think it is clear that we still cannot be satisfied. Food has previously been mentioned in the speaker's chair. I want to make it clear that we are in fact in agreement that ugly meat should not be served at schools, preschools or accommodations in Sweden. We will ensure that all meat served comes from production with good conditions for animals, where quality and health are maintained. Everyone knows that if animals are properly cared for, antibiotics do not need to be used for preventive purposes in the way that unfortunately occurs across Europe. We should be clear that public money should go to buy good meat, not to buy bad meat. This is an area where we need to continue working and should not be satisfied until we have achieved a 100% achievement. There are many other parts where the same challenges exist. There are products in our vicinity that do not meet the standards we set. I believe that the legal and structural conditions are in place for us in Sweden to be able to use procurement in a strategic way. This applies not least because the Procurement Authority has the task of being proactive and finding new ways forward. If the authority encounters legal obstacles, it will have to come back to the government and see if the legislation needs to be developed in the future. Now it is important that we get the strategic collaboration work in place between our authorities. It is also a lot about the different levels in Sweden, i.e. that municipalities, regions and government agencies work together. If you encounter obstacles and cannot work proactively enough, the Government can turn to the Riksdag and propose new, developed rules.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-82	Mr President, I would like to Barely a month ago, I attended the Young Enterprise Fair in Gothenburg. There I met young people who, within the framework of Young Enterprise, had to try their wings as entrepreneurs. It was an amazing experience. Each UF company had a stand space, and on the few square metres the young people met all sides of entrepreneurship. It was from product and service development to sustainability thinking, from sustainability to marketing, from marketing to sales ability on the floor – in competition with all other UF companies. Business ideas ranged from selling reading glasses to restaurants so that guests could read the menu to homemade cakes and caramels or to feminist white books in mindfulness. The only thing, Mr President, which was not spaced on the square meters, but which unfortunately fits into the everyday lives of all other entrepreneurs, was bureaucracy and the regulatory burden. Fortunately, there was no poor high school student at the back of the booth and had a meeting with the accountant or filled out tax return forms. Mr President, I would like to In order to strengthen Sweden in the long term, more companies need to be able to start, grow and compete on the global world market. The opportunities for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship must not be curbed by excessive taxes and tight regulations at home or by protectionism in the outside world. We want Sweden to have a world-class business environment that rewards innovation and entrepreneurship, where companies can compete globally and Sweden gets a head start into the new economy. A good business environment is about the conditions for all companies, regardless of their size. The national economy can be compared to an ecosystem such as a forest. For a forest to grow and thrive, both large trees and small plants are required. It is only when companies with different specialisations and different sizes work together that we can achieve innovation, entrepreneurship and competitiveness. It is only then that we create jobs and solve societal challenges. It is only then that we get both pizza baked and self-driving cars. But, Mr President, many people in Sweden are reluctant to start up a business today, and businesses are increasingly experiencing regulatory and bureaucracy problems. On the debate page of today's industry on 2 and 6 March, representatives of 22 business organisations wrote about the growing regulatory burden. Small businesses are most severely affected by the regulatory burden as they have by definition few or no employees and both margins and liquidity are limited. On the other hand, every hour that small businesses impose regulatory and administrative constraints, they would have been able to add value to themselves and their customers. At the same time, small businesses are important both for job creation and for driving innovation and development. All major companies have once started as an idea that someone dared to test. And entrepreneurship is not only within companies – learning entrepreneurship is about learning to set goals and work against them, learning to cooperate with others but also to dare to charge for what you do, to sell yourself but also to dare to listen to the needs of others. That's what I saw at the UF fair in Gothenburg, and that's what we want to see flourish throughout society. It is therefore particularly important to make it easy to start and run small businesses. Mr President, I would like to In several other countries, there are systems that allow for a wide-ranging simplification of the rules for the smallest companies. We believe that it should also be investigated in Sweden how far the simplification of taxation and regulations for micro-enterprises can be implemented. Good conditions for small businesses are a prerequisite for a viable business environment with both large and small companies. A good business climate is about both AB Volvo and the pizzeria around the corner being able to exist and grow. With this in mind, I support the Moderate and Kristdemo Democracies' reservation 3.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-96	Mr President, I would like to Crime must be combated. Wherever it appears, society, all of us, needs to work to create something better. When organised crime takes hold, it causes suffering, first and foremost for those directly affected, but also for all around who are indirectly affected. Crime involving murder, violence, and drugs often receives major headlines. It is written in the newspapers and online about gang crime and shootings. It is a criminality that we absolutely must work against, and we need to use the entire palette to succeed. We need a foundation of economic equality where everyone is going. It is because we know that people from socio-economically tough life situations are, unfortunately, more likely to end up in a criminal lifestyle. A society where there is good hope for a good future will reduce the risk of gang recruitment and other criminal activities. But it is important not to forget economic crime. It is often not as spectacular and headline-making, but it is not uncommon that it is linked to the crime that I mentioned earlier. There is a constant need for legal economic activities on the surface to launder money from other crime. Economic crime is a serious social problem, ranging from crimes committed by negligence to planned schemes for profit. I believe that the abolition of audit obligations for smaller limited liability companies carried out in 2010 has contributed to an increase in financial crime. The Swedish Economic Crime Authority and the Swedish National Audit Office have in reports pointed to problems with the abolition of audit obligations. The 2016 report of the Swedish Economic Crimes Authority shows that nearly half of the companies audited are deemed to have been used as a crime tool and that the companies that renounced audit and rejected auditors are over-represented in terms of planned financial crime. Financial crime deals with everything from VAT fraud and undeclared labour to widespread fraud against individuals and other companies. Serious criminals start businesses whose only business idea is to commit financial crime. According to the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency, the border between the criminal world and established business seems to be blurred. The agency sees the same pattern in 2017. The company is the new crowbar. Mr President, I would like to In its review report, the Swedish National Audit Office also considers that the main intentions of the reform have not been achieved except in terms of increased freedom of choice and the direct savings made by the public limited liability companies concerned on the auditor's fees. A number of negative consequences have become apparent; among other things, the reform has made the fight against economic crime more difficult. The Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion is that the audit obligation for small limited liability companies should be reintroduced. I share this view and believe that the duty of audit should be reintroduced as a crime prevention measure. Of 100 new companies set up in Sweden, 7 are believed to be created solely for the purpose of committing crimes. Companies are often used from cradle to grave to maximise crime profits, from start-up-own subsidies to government wage guarantees in the event of bankruptcy. The Crime Prevention Council in a report points to the links between organised crime in Sweden's three major cities and extensive economic crime. It is not uncommon for criminal networks to take over legal companies with good economic history and then exploit them by buying goods on credit and using black labour and various forms of subsidies. When the bills are to be paid, the company is emptied and the members of the board of directors are gone. Mr President, I would like to The bourgeois government abolished the requirement for auditors in small companies. It made it easier to obtain an F-tax note as well as to postpone the bookkeeping. The requirement for share capital was halved. According to the ERC, these simplifications have meant clear simplifications for criminals as well. It has become easier to use the company as a crime tool. The darker number is estimated to be large because the reported crimes are mainly the result of the Tax Agency's controls and bankruptcy managers' investigations. We need order in business. There are many victims of criminal activity, such as all those serious entrepreneurs who want to do the right thing but who are in danger of being knocked out by operators who have no intention of complying with laws and regulations whatsoever. We need to combat economic crime. One of the means we can use is the duty of auditing. With a duty of audit, we can fight off financial criminals. I call for the approval of Amendment No 1 by the Left Party.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-113	Mr President, I would like to Who are you when you're born? A somewhat philosophical question, perhaps, that needs more time to discuss than we have now. For many, however, this issue is important. Who was I? Who am I? Who am I about to be? When you grow up, that question becomes more and more important. When you are formed as a human, the answer can also vary. Some people can easily find themselves and who they are. Some people are having an extremely difficult time, and it takes a long time. We can take different paths in life, and who you are gets different answers depending on whether you ask yourself or others. But I'm sure of one thing: you're not born to be an entrepreneur. No one knows from the beginning what is required, but it is shaped into it. Entrepreneurship is more about a genuine interest in what you do and a willingness to run and develop a business. Many people have ideas and dreams, but it is far from everyone who realizes them. Being an entrepreneur is about having the drive to turn your ideas and dreams into action. An entrepreneur is often described as someone who sees opportunities before obstacles and is creative and courageous. Research shows that it is common for entrepreneurs to be risk prone, which does not mean that they are foolhardy but rather that they are aware of their efforts and the risks associated with them. Good qualities are also to be targeted and at the same time prestigeless with an ability to change wrong decisions to the right decision. These people are, I would argue, those who drive society forward in many ways. They are the ones who dare to challenge, try, test, lose, but also win, and create something unique. As politicians and society, we should encourage and try to help as much as possible. It is extremely difficult today to become an entrepreneur, partly because it is difficult to finance the start-up of the business because venture capital is very difficult to find, partly because we as people are not the best at everything. This particular administrative part can be very burdensome. I believe that more entrepreneurs are needed in Sweden, and that is with them we can build welfare. The best way to get more entrepreneurs is to reduce their administrative burden. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth, companies' costs of complying with and administering the laws and regulations we have are increased by approximately SEK 1.2 billion a year. There is no evidence today that these rules and laws are becoming fewer. On the contrary, the regulatory burden on companies appears to be increasing. Entrepreneurs spend an average of ten hours a week on administration. Much of this time consists of administration as a result of the rules of the authorities. Try to see in front of you that the time is being spent developing their own activities. Then maybe we can reduce the number of bankruptcies in Sweden, and maybe people actually get happier. In order to reverse this trend, we must take seriously the reduction of the regulatory burden. Our eagerness to ban and control everything means everything that is usually more rules and more administration, without anything else being removed. Therefore, the general simplification work should be strengthened by measures taken by the government so that we reduce the number of rules, especially for the smallest companies. The government should therefore examine how a substantial simplification of taxation and regulatory frameworks for micro-enterprises can be implemented. I also believe that the thresholds for entrepreneurship must be reduced as much as possible so that more people can start and develop businesses and thereby create jobs for themselves and others. Many entrepreneurs lack the funds required to form a public limited liability company or have difficulty in making provisions for their current income into the basic sheet of the share capital. Here, of course, we could talk about the credit restrictions that have been imposed, which create problems not only when it comes to financing housing construction as an entrepreneur or buying a home as a private individual, but also because ordinary entrepreneurs find it more difficult to get the calculation together because borrowing of capital is becoming more and more expensive in Sweden. However, I refrain from discussing the housing shortage created by these credit restrictions, but can only conclude that credit restrictions not only create a crisis in the housing market but also create problems in general in society. At the same time, in the vast majority of cases, it is necessary to finance the start-up of the company, i.e. the share capital. It is therefore important that the Government prioritises the work of producing a legislative proposal that reduces the requirement for share capital from SEK 50 000 to SEK 25 000. With this, I would like to endorse Amendments Nos 2 and 3.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-125	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that we have a government that will do so much of what is being desired in this House right now. After all, the government has concluded agreements with the co-operative parties C and L and will work towards simpler rules, look at micro-enterprises and work towards easier taxation for small companies. I was amused to count the number of points in the 73-point agreement relating to entrepreneurship. These are paragraphs 3, 4, 12, 13, 15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26 and 46. A large proportion of the points we have agreed to implement relate to precisely what this House wants. It is gratifying that we can proceed with this in broad agreement. Then it is clear that it is the role of the opposition always to think that it should go faster, be stronger or be a little more. But the January agreement is a solid and good basis for us to be able to continue working on these issues. The issue of reducing share capital is also being implemented through the January agreement, and I am pleased that this is the case. The big battle on this issue was, in fact, whether it should be reduced from 100 000 to 50 000. At least I don't think I'm making a huge difference in practice. It is also the case, at least as long as we have agreements and it works well with the UK and we do not get a hard Brexit, that you can register companies in other countries for 1 krona. I wonder why the opposition does not go all the way and think that the share capital should be completely removed. It is interesting to consider why it is precisely 25 000 kronor it should land on. On the question of audit obligations, I personally share the view expressed by Mr Jon. It was a problem that it was removed. Now we have removed it, and then it is difficult to reintroduce it. There aren't a lot of accountants in trees and shelves waiting to jump out and start doing audits in small companies. If so, we must fill that need with new skills. I do not believe that we should create another sector in which the lack of competence is excruciating because we make different political decisions. But, as I said, I also see the problems that the Left Party Member has presented here. This is a balancing act. However, I believe that we need to start at the right end, and that is to ensure that we can meet the challenges of possible legislation. We have also seen that lower costs are involved – not only in pure money, but also in time for a small company. I am a small business owner myself because I am a partner in a company with my father. I know that auditing can take some time and is not simply. My father is very experienced in these matters, so for him it's not a big problem. But for those who are completely new, in some cases the audit becomes a burdensome issue. It's not just about the money, it's about the time. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-133	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the government has realised that the rules for companies need to be reduced and that, if I understand it correctly, it also wants to reduce the share capital of companies. I would like to ask a simple question: when will this come? I have not heard any government say at any time that it wants to increase the regulatory burden on businesses, but the rhetorical answer from the government is, of course, always that it wants to reduce it. Unfortunately, however, neither this government nor the alliance government have succeeded in delivering on these issues. I am happy to help reduce the regulatory burden, but I doubt that this government will be able to do so. It is actually very difficult, even if the ambition exists. But I'd like to know when it's coming. As far as auditing is concerned, I do not, in fact, agree with the Social Democrats. The audit obligation for companies with a turnover below 3 million was abolished for one reason: it was a fairly large cost and led to increased administration for these companies. The increased control that it believes can be created through audit obligations for companies with a turnover below 3 million will probably give rise to more regulatory problems and more costs for companies. The Social Democrats depart from the idea put forward in the speaker's chair, namely that they want to reduce the regulatory burden and the costs for the companies. I do not get the point that we want to re-establish the audit obligation for smaller companies by reducing the regulatory burden and the costs for the companies.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-137	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder probably didn't really hear what I said. I made a personal comment that I find it unfortunate that the audit obligation was removed, but there are no proposals to reintroduce it. So on that point Larry Söder can be calm. With regard to the speed with which this will take place, of course, investigations and the like should be carried out in due course. However, our cooperation parties have been very clear about the implementation of this agreement. So I do not think that the government, the Center Party or the Liberals will be dragging their feet on this, but we will have constructive discussions to do so as soon as possible. Nevertheless, it is grateful that Larry Söder points to the fact that the alliance government has also had difficulties with this issue. It must be borne in mind that it is a matter of balance: to have freely blown at one end and to have rules at the other end. That is where we need to find a good balance. Some rules fulfill system-important functions, and there I get interested in Larry Söders thinking at system level. This is the second debate that I am listening to Larry Söder, where he is tackling credit restrictions, and I am concerned about an economic policy that does not take account of the increasing indebtedness of the household sector. The question is, then, what is the Christian Democrats' proposal on debt development, because I do not see the Christian Democrats making a lot of proposals on the expenditure side, that is, the banking sector. Nor do you have any proposals to reduce the leverage ratio of the business sector. To just give freely even to free credit for housing loans would be to tell the whole of our society that now we are going straight into a financial crisis. The question is, what is Larrys's Söder's answer to the issue of lending? Does Larry Söder mean that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority is making an incorrect assessment of the amortisation requirement and that we should not have any amortisation requirement?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-143	Mr President, I would like to I did not really get an answer to the question of when a bill would come that would reduce the rules for companies. When is the proposal for lower share capital for the companies coming? In any case, it is gratifying that the Social Democrats do not want to impose an audit obligation on companies under 3 million. Then I'll be safe in that part. On the issue of credit restrictions, I am making a different assessment from the Financial Supervisory Authority. I think it is inhibiting housing construction that we have such strong credit restrictions that people can't actually buy their own home. That means we don't get any homes built, because nobody can buy them. This means that we have a housing crisis in Sweden. The housing crisis is something that we both have to live with, but it is the responsibility of the government. In that case, one cannot blame the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority for making decisions, but the government has to assume its responsibilities and make the necessary changes. It actually works so that the opposition in the Swedish parliament has the opportunity to point out the problems and shortcomings that exist, but it is the government that has the opportunity to change them. I understand that the credit restrictions are one of the biggest concerns in the housing market, that housing construction is decreasing so much. The number of homes being built in Sweden today has been halved compared to last year. I can't imagine the government thinks it's good either. My question is whether you intend to change credit restrictions so that housing construction increases again, because it is a housing crisis in Sweden. You will hear this throughout your term of office as long as you do nothing about it. It is not only in the second debate that we will address this, but it may also be in the twenty-sixth debate.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-149	This particular debate, however, is about the right of association, if you can be pious.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-150	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for pointing out what the debate is all about. I must venture to say, however, that if you take an irresponsible decision and throw away the budget that retained investment aid, which creates great concern on the housing market for the production of rentals, perhaps it would be reasonable not to have such high tails when it comes to creating a crisis in housing policy. Then I am not in the government, so I cannot answer for the Government Office's schedule and give answers to what Larry Söder is asking. But as I said, he can be calm. I do not think that, above all, C and L will accept that we are dragging our feet here, and it is good that we are helping each other in this. I will refrain from talking about housing policy after Mr President's comment. With regard to the removal of audit duties, Larry Söder must also see that there have been problems. As the Left Party member said, both the Swedish Economic Crime Authority and the Swedish National Audit Office point out that the criminal activity in these companies has probably increased and that it is used as a tool in criminal activity. I think Larry Söder also thinks it's a problem. Then I hope that Larry Söder will continue to point out the good will for consensus and seek solutions to this, because I think that is the constructive way forward. In these times when many have a very high tone in the debate and are just looking for conflict rather than constructive solution, I think Larry Söder's entrances are often very good. I appreciate that.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-156	Mr President, I would like to Ola Möller sang the holidays of the January Agreement in her speech, and you can do that. I can only begin by stating that your government has been in office for four years anyway, and the article I referred to in Dagens i ndustri has a great deal to do with the last four years. Among other things, reference is made to the OECD Regulatory Policy Outlook, a study that shows that Sweden has fallen behind in the regulatory improvement work and that no improvements have taken place since the previous survey, 2015. It is also noted that according to the Swedish Agency for Growth's measurements, the administrative costs of companies in Sweden have increased by SEK 6 billion in five years. Only between 2016 and 2017, the total net increase in total costs resulting from new changes amounted to SEK 10 billion. 29 per cent of the companies surveyed in an Skop survey feel that they have become more difficult to comply with state rules than a year ago. By way of comparison, only 2% think it has become simpler. Mr President, I would like to It's great if Ola Möller thinks there are good ambitions in the January agreement. But my question is: why has nothing happened in the last four years if entrepreneurs experience it this way? Mr President, I would like to My second question is, as Larry Söder asked: when will the promised reforms in the 73-point programme come?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-161	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder was honest enough to say that these are difficult processes. He said that even the Alliance government had problems simplifying rules. And what are simple rules? What rules should be removed and what should we have? These are difficult balances. Of course, within the framework of the January agreement, we will do our best to succeed better than previous governments, regardless of colour, have done with this. David Josefsson refers to an investigation. But if 29 percent think it's a problem with the rules and 2 percent that it's improved, it means that 69 percent think it's quite okay. If such a large majority of entrepreneurs still think that the rules that are today are fully portable, they are not a huge problem. The government has also introduced, for example, growth support, which we will double with the January agreement. That's great, because that means more people can get their first job. So it is not that the government has done nothing in this area.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-165	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with what Larry Söder says. I do not think that the alliance government has reached its full potential in the process of simplifying rules. But there is a difference between not getting all the way to simplifying rules and clearly getting worse. If 29 per cent of entrepreneurs say that it has become more complicated and it has become 10 billion more expensive in just two years, it is not only the case that you have not really reached the right stage in your regulatory simplification work, but then it has gone the other way. Although Ola Möller does not feel that this is a huge problem, Mr President, I believe that entrepreneurs feel that it is a huge problem. I definitely feel like it's a huge problem. Again: You are singing the law of January. When are the changes coming? We have a sharp proposal in a reservation in this House today. When will your proposals for simplification come, if not today? Now you sing the 73-point program. But when we discussed housing policy, it wasn't really the same notes from Ola Möller around the 73-point programme, so it feels like there are mixed feelings among the Social Democrats. My questions are: when will the proposals in the 73-point programme come? And why didn't they do better in the last four years?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-171	Mr President, I would like to David Josefsson may well read the paragraphs of the 73-point programme. Then he will see that the reservation to simplify and investigate is about what is said in the January agreement, that is to say that this is the time to investigate and simplify. Of course it takes time, and since I am not in the government, I cannot answer exactly when the government intends to deliver this. With regard to mixed feelings for the January agreement, it is a correct analysis. I am not very worried about the changes we are making there, and I welcome many of them. It is clear that we should make it easier to run companies in Sweden, because many of the new jobs come there. But that doesn't mean I love everything that's in the rest of the deal. And I am deeply concerned about some of the points that are there and what developments they will lead to. I think it is good that we politicians not only stand and say that it has done everything wrong but it has done everything right, that everything is good or that everything is bad, but we have to be able to show a width. Some things work and others don't, some we are proud of and others could be done better. David Josefsson had one more question but I have now completely forgotten. But there will be a report later, so we will have to discuss it further. Thank you very much.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-176	Mr President, I would like to I have neither reservations nor any specific opinion to speak for, but I have some opinions to express anyway. This is not the first time we have been talking about share capital. The issue of share capital was a rather heated one during the last parliamentary term. Extra hot it was perhaps because my own party eventually chose to support an announcement to reduce the share capital. First, we supported the government's position on a share capital of SEK 50,000. Later, after careful consideration, we thought that Sweden should approach the surrounding countries' reduced share capital and establish itself according to about the same regulatory framework. Above all, we wanted to see an opportunity to start companies with lower share capital. However, I have no objection to calling for higher share capital when the company has had a few years to build up its business. Such a system exists in Denmark, among others, and we understand that it works well there. However, the most important aspect of entrepreneurship is to reduce the regulatory burden. It is therefore gratifying that Ola Möller says that the government will simplify and improve for the companies. Reducing red tape and reducing the regulatory burden are the basis for getting more businesses. I believe that, and many of them believe that, and judging by what they say in the pulpit, the Social Democrats believe that too. But it sounds bad in relation to what the Social Democrats do. It is a little strange that they stand here and say that they want to reduce the regulatory burden while they present proposals in the Riksdag for, among other things, a new report to be submitted. They call it to strengthen shareholders' transparency in the company. This is hardly to be simplified for businesses. In the past, diversity reports have been called for in which companies should, in principle, go in and control the gender balance among employees – whatever it is of interest. Stranger is probably the Social Democrats' handling of share capital. When I chose to support the announcement which, during the last parliamentary term, pointed out the need for a reduced share capital, I had to explain myself to Lars Eriksson, who was then the representative of the Social Democrats in the debate. According to him and the Social Democrats, I was irresponsible, did not think about the consequences and did not take responsibility for the consequences. According to the Social Democrats, reduced share capital would then mean more rogue companies and a first step towards those Social Democrats who hated the SUPs, i.e. companies that have a single krona or euro as share capital. Ola Möller mentioned these companies in her speech. As the Social Democrats then put it: if the share capital limit was not used to give the company a high value, why should we not go further and lower the limit to the bottom of a single krona? There was no reason not to use the same argument down to the fact that there was no share capital at all, they said. Today it sounds completely different from the Social Democrats. Suddenly it is no longer irresponsible to reduce the share capital. Suddenly it is a well-founded proposal, an entrepreneurial policy, which will benefit Sweden and so on. I did not get the opportunity to take a line on Ola Möller, so instead my speech becomes more or less a line. The question to be asked is whether the Social Democrats now want to go further than 25 000, because, as they quite rightly pointed out a few years ago, many of the arguments used to lower to 25 000 can be used for further reduction. I myself have great doubts about reducing the share capital to less than 25 000. I had initially intended to talk a little about gökungar in the nest of the Social Democrats, but I refrain from that and note that the Social Democrats now often change politics and stand to the right of me.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-187	Mr President, I would like to I think Mikael Eskilandersson will go in and listen to what I actually said. I did not pay tribute to it, but I problematized and said that the big question was when you went from 100 000 to 50 000 and that it does not make much difference to go down further. What my predecessor has said must stand for him. Personally, I do not see it as a huge problem to go down from 50 000 to 25 000. When the Swedish Democrats change their minds, it is after mature consideration. This is most of the time, I suppose, such as the change in profits in welfare and EU resistance. I would not be surprised if, after careful consideration, you would soon join NATO. Why is it okay for the Swedish Democrats to change foot on big, fundamental issues while when we as part of a deal for a good, sustainable government lowers the share capital from 50 000 to 25 000 – we had not proposed it on our own – is irresponsible, very dangerous and hypocritical? I do not think that the Swedish Democrats are the party that should have the highest tails when it comes to not swinging around in political matters. Please explain why it is okay for the Swedish Democrats to turn when it comes to, for example, EU resistance, profits in welfare or market rents, while we are not allowed to change about SEK 25 000.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-191	Mr President, I would like to I think we should stick to that debate and refrain from discussing Europe and so on. Let me just briefly mention that we have never turned over market rents. We have always had the same attitude towards market rents. It was a complete lie from the Social Democrats to claim that we said yes to market rents. In addition, you hit the big drum and drummed it out from all directions. Among other things, you got the Tenant Association to call around and explain that we Swedish democrats were in favour of market rents and that the rent would go up if they voted for us. But this never came from us. We went out and denied it, but we did not have the same opportunity to deny what you had to pump out the wrong message. Let us return to today's discussion. When I said that it was irresponsible and hypocritical to change my position, I only quoted what the Social Democrats said to me when we took the decision to support the announcement – an announcement that basically only said to look at whether there was any reason to lower the share capital. It was not an announcement that required you to go all the way down to the level of the SUPs. I was then accused of a complete reversal because I had previously supported 50,000. I believe that 25 000 is a reasonable limit on share capital, provided that there are authorities around to ensure that all companies work well.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-195	Mr President, I would like to As I said, what my predecessor said in that debate will have to stand for him. I believe that the issue of share capital can be problematized. On the one hand, it is good that there is a strong capital in the company if you end up in financial crisis and that those who claim the company can see that there is something to bring home and a share capital to lean on, because otherwise there is a risk that they will not get their money back. On the other hand, it may be an advantage to have a small share capital for the simple reason that if the company goes bankrupt, people may come later and ask for money from those on the board. V i has seen systematic exploitation where companies have put in systems to go after small traders out on archipelago islands who have had problems in the farm shop or grocery store and then want to ask for the money afterwards. Then it's better if it's a small share capital. This is an issue that can be problematised. If 25 000 or 50 000 is the optimal limit, I am not human to decide. As I said, what my predecessor has said to you, Mikael Eskilandersson, you will have to take him with you. But it is still the case that the Swedish Democrats do not have a political capital which means that they can accuse others of hypocrisy when a position is changed. When it comes to market rents, your economic-political spokesperson Oscar Sjöstedt was clear on this issue in Today's Industry in December 2017: You could well imagine that. The policy of the Swedish Democrats right now is not about what the Swedish Democrats think, but about what you can do for the Moderates and Christian Democrats to accept to take you into a conservative bloc. That's what it's all about. It is not about standing up for other principles. So lower the tone to that we have changed in 25 000 SEK, Mikael Eskilandersson!
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-200	Mr President, I would like to I think that Ola Möller will also lower his tone somewhat. We can start discussing what can be negotiated with other parties, and then it is not only the Swedish Democrats who can consider negotiating market rents with other parties. Or did I miss something here? It goes without saying that all issues can be negotiated with other parties – the basis of the policy is that we negotiate. I just wanted to point out that when we change our mind it is considered a huge betrayal, but when the Social Democrats change their mind it is not at all the same betrayal but a mature consideration. I would say that we did a mature consideration when we went in to make an announcement about lowering the share capital.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-202	Mr President, I would like to For me as a center party, it is important that companies have the opportunity to operate and develop in Sweden, Europe and the world. I am convinced that it is through companies that jobs are created and that they contribute to increased growth in Sweden that gives us better welfare. But for more people to be able to run companies, it's easy to do so. Some improvements have been made in recent years, such as the fact that since 2010 small businesses can choose whether or not to have an authorised auditor. It is also possible to choose how often you want to account for and pay VAT. This is a good thing, and it reduces costs and simplifies the business environment. The Alliance government previously had a study on accounting rules, which produced a proposal on micro-enterprises. It is companies that do not have the same requirements for accounting and that can also submit shorter reports, in order to make it easier for companies in terms of administration. This has not been implemented, but we are closer now through the January agreement. With regard to the proposal to reduce share capital from 50 000 to 25 000, it is another important element in promoting small business. In 2017, an announcement was made about this. N u will be implemented with the agreement in January between the Center Party, the Liberals and the Government Parties. Many small businesses say that the biggest obstacles to growth, in addition to competition, are regulatory problems associated with laws and government rules. Mr President, I would like to Why, then, do I think it is so important to simplify things for small businesses? In particular, because four out of five jobs are created in these companies but also because they serve as a stepping stone to the Swedish labour market. Many who come to Sweden from another country are enterprising but find it difficult to reach the labour market. The same applies to our young people. That is why we want to simplify things for businesses. Companies with lower turnover should be able to pay an income tax of up to 25 per cent, and other requirements for employee contributions should be removed. D One to make it easy to work and charge without having to drown in rules and administration as a new entrepreneur. In this way, companies can become a way into the labour market. This is good for the integration of those who were not born in Sweden, and it is good for our young people who will try their wings on the labour market. Mr President, I would like to Me and the Center Party want a better climate for those who create jobs, based on every person's right to create a better life for himself and his family. By lowering the thresholds to entrepreneurship, this can become a reality. I want all political decisions around entrepreneurship to be about a rule in being a rule out, or why not two rules out, all to make it easier to contribute to Sweden's growth. We need to be better at supporting innovation and entrepreneurship in order to remain a developing country that has a place in the global market. The January Agreement provides for a simplification of taxation and regulatory frameworks for micro-enterprises and a reduction in share capital. The share capital will be reduced from 1 January 2020, and the regulations will be investigated in order to become a proposal for a law amendment in 2021. I am glad that these things will happen thanks to our agreement with the government. We therefore have no reservation but instead give a specific opinion.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-212	Mr President, I would like to Small companies play an important role in creating jobs in Sweden. This will make our society flourish. Improving the ability of companies to grow and thrive is therefore an important part of the work we are doing in this house. Mr President, I would like to Business management needs to be made easier. Therefore, the requirement for share capital must be reduced from today's level of SEK 50 000 to half, SEK 25 000. This opens up the possibility for more people to create businesses. And that is a good thing, because we need enthusiasts who are given the opportunity to test their wings. Mr President, I would like to In several other countries, systems have been put in place that allow for a wide-ranging simplification of the rules for the smallest companies. This has produced good results, as it is often small businesses that are hit particularly hard by extensive regulation. Small businesses often lack staff and resources to cope with large regulatory burdens. Here in Sweden, too, there should be an examination of how a substantial simplification of taxation and regulatory frameworks for micro-enterprises can be implemented. The Liberals are one of Sweden's responsible parties that have signed the January Agreement, i.e. the 73-point programme signed between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Environmental Party and the Liberals. Both of the issues I mentioned earlier – the reduction of capital requirements and the simplification of taxation and the regulatory framework for micro-enterprises – fall within the scope of the agreement. As regards the issue of reduced capital requirements, a departmental spromemoria will be developed in spring 2019, and a new legislation will enter into force on 1 January 2020 with the aim of reducing the capital requirement to SEK 25 000, which is certainly information that interests some in this House. The issue of tax simplification and the regulatory framework for micro-enterprises is also affected by the agreement. An investigation will be launched in 2019 – 2020, and changes will be in force by 2021. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that there is a plan to implement these reforms and that four political parties had the courage to take responsibility for this together. Because of this, I will not make a request in this debate, but I would like to add that the Liberals will actively and closely follow the government's efforts to implement the January Agreement as a whole.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-219	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Henrik Edin, on a very good first speech in this House. That's very nice to hear. I think it's hard to do it the way you did. It's honor to you in this respect. Then I'd like to send a little to the Liberals. However, since we in the Alliance have remained together in some way and have had many similar issues, I would like to come back to the issue in one way or another. The January agreement exists; I know it. But somehow I would like to appeal to the Liberals that they are a guardian in terms of how we can reduce the regulatory burden in Sweden. I am more confident that the Liberals are pushing these issues together and trying to make this a reality. We also know that the Alliance Government had difficulty finding the keys to do so effectively. But if you try to control companies more and try to make them report even more things, it also means that the regulatory burden for companies will increase. To simplify the way for business operators, it is also based on actually removing and phasing out rules that are not necessary. I am pleased that the Liberals stand by the 25 000 crowns on which we have an announcement. However, I did not understand whether the Liberals are also on the same line as the Christian Democrats when it comes to the audit obligations of smaller companies – with less than 3 million in turnover – that is, we should not have back the audit obligations that applied earlier. I would like clarification on this.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-224	Mr President, I would like to I thank Larry Söder for this. As for your last question, Larry Söder, I need to get back to you about it. Of course, the Liberals will do their utmost to ensure that the January Agreement as a whole is implemented. I also understand that the other parties that have concluded the January agreement are prepared to do the same. Then, of course, it helps, and it would be good for Sweden as a whole, if we get as much support as possible on these proposals and if even the opposition parties think that this is a good policy. I look forward with great confidence to the fact that we can put these proposals on the table and then vote them through the House.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-228	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to point out briefly that I think it is important for Swedish companies that we have a reduced regulatory burden. Although it may seem that many, as the Social-Democrat said in his speech, do not think it is a major problem with the regulatory problem. But there are a lot of people who point it out every time you're out talking to entrepreneurs. Just take this with you, Henrik Edin, and do as much as possible, because I think that Swedish companies would feel very good with smaller rules.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-229	Mr President, I would like to I'll take that with me. Thank you very much for your reply and this debate. We'll do our best, and I hope we can do it together.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-230	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 9. Mr President, I would like to We're all consumers. That is why today's debate is obviously of great interest to many. I would like to point out that, strangely enough, we lack consumer protection, and that is when we use public services: health, education and care. If I buy a toaster, I have three years' right to complain. However, if my parents are given poor care for the elderly, there is no consumer protection, and one can think about why this is the case. As consumers, we have to make active and conscious choices, and the political task is to ensure that this is possible. When we go into a shop and it smells good from freshly baked baking-off bread we should of course be able to know where the frozen bread that is heated in the shop comes from. Is it done in Sweden or in a low-cost country? Then, as I said, it is important that the shops and others tell us where the products are, so that we can make conscious choices. In particular, the stores' own branded products, the so-called EMV, represent an increasing proportion of the stores' sales. Then it is important that it is shown by who and where they have been manufactured. Consumer policy may not be the area where we have the greatest conflict between the various political parties. Basically, everyone thinks it is reasonable that we have a good consumer policy and so on. However, there are some areas where we have had a conflict in the last year. I am thinking, for example, of lottery sales. It was a great scandal a few years ago with the Social Democrats lottery, where they did not hesitate to sell lottery tickets on credit to over-indebted people. It was simply a great scandal around this. Mr President, I would like to About a year ago, we decided that consumers should be protected in telephone sales through written contracts. But for some reason this did not happen in the case of lottery sales. The Parliament has also made an announcement where we have said that the government will simply come back with proposals for such legislation. It has now been a year, Mr President, and no legislative proposal has come. We Moderates have therefore made a special opinion in this report. But we are also saying that we will follow the work and that we will remind the government that this legislation must be introduced. The issue of gambling is very relevant right now. I note that Minister Shekarabi has been sitting in many TV sofas in recent weeks and has been raging against gambling advertising. He has said among other things: The companies have one month to fix, among other things, television advertising. The government has thus had one year to produce a clarification of the legislation, so that it will also apply to the Social Democrats lottery when selling lottery tickets by telephone. But that has not been done. When it comes to gambling advertising, it is also quite interesting that it has increased. I think there are more people who perceive that there is only gambling advertising right now. The actual measurement shows that online gambling advertising has increased by about 13 percent since the turn of the year. Of these 13%, Svenska Spel, the state gaming company, accounts for 70%. Of course, it would be easier for Minister Shekarabi to influence the state gaming companies through ownership directives or in other ways. But I note that this has not happened. Another issue where the government has acted late or not at all concerns the area of beauty treatments. Of course, it believes that there is legislation in place. I think that a great many people are surprised that you can go and do a beauty operation and afterwards, if it goes wrong, discover that there is no consumer protection and no legislation. Unfortunately, we can read almost every week that mainly young people get caught when they have performed a beauty surgery that has gone very wrong. Afterwards, the consumer discovers that there is no legislation. Here, too, the Social Democratic Government has been sitting on its hands since 2014. There was a complete piece of legislation. It could have been implemented very quickly. But this has been extended for a very long time, and it is actually remarkable. Another thing that is growing very fast is the new collaborative economy. When we discuss consumer protection, we are probably thinking of traders and consumers. But, of course, in the new collaborative economy, where we buy and sell each other to a very large extent, there is no consumer protection. However, the Swedish Consumer Agency has produced templates on its website, for example. For example, if a private person is buying a car from another private person, you can go to the Swedish Consumer Agency's website and download a car contract. We think that is very good. I believe that the Swedish Consumer Agency has a role to play in these parts too. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, it is therefore remarkable that the government has not come back in 12 months with proposals for legislation regulating the telephone sale of lottery tickets. Unfortunately, it cannot be excluded that it is because lottery tickets are a significant source of revenue for the Social Democratic Party. It is also remarkable that the government has not come back with proposals for legislation on beauty treatments. Here we expect moderates to do so during the year.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-245	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating consumer policy. It's about 30 different forms of order, so it's pretty spread out. No claim has been made for a majority. If it is then a strength or a weakness depends probably on who you ask. Several proposals from us Swedish democrats affect small companies' conditions, as we believe that small entrepreneurs are as vulnerable as ordinary consumers in the market. The mere fact that you hold an F-tax note or an FA-tax note does not mean that you are suddenly much stronger in the negotiating position vis-à-vis other companies. I myself belong to the group that has an F tax note. It is a reality I share with over 800 000 others, of varying ages, in Sweden. I own an F-tax myself because I own a forest property. There are many people in Sweden who, like me, don't spend much time on their company but who still have to have F-tax precisely because they own some farmland or forest. There are also many older people in our society who have F-tax precisely because they own land. A large part of Sweden's adult population is thus registered as an entrepreneur, and this is usually good. However, since it has now been shown that less serious companies through telephone sales have targeted particularly elderly people with F-taxes, there is a need to tighten up the rules so that even people with F-taxes are protected on the same terms as people who do not have F-taxes. All serious sales are based on the fact that two parties agree and that both are subsequently satisfied with the agreement. Through telephone it is often difficult to know exactly what kind of contract you are entering into, and therefore the new law on written confirmation is a good way to force the seller to show what the buyer actually agrees to. In the vast majority of cases, it is not a problem that an agreement has to be signed, as both parties are equally concerned about the agreement being put in place. To refer in Sweden today to the fact that for a very long time we have had telephone calls as a normal and legitimate way of entering into agreements is bad because with today's technology it is more the rule than the exception that what has been agreed by telephone is also confirmed either by email or by SMS. If you book a time for repairing the car, there will be a text message with time and date, as well as basically always an email with information about the product you have ordered over the phone. This is also true between companies, of course, because you want to know that you really agree on what you have just discussed over the phone. We want a system in which the person who has F-tax should normally have the same protection against both telephone vendors and pure bluf companies as other private individuals have on the market. In our Sweden, all people are protected against rogue companies, and no one is forced into agreements against their will. Therefore, you should have the same protection even if you happen to own a few hectares of land. The fact that you don't have it today is strange. Mr President, I would like to Moving bank account numbers is another issue that has come up. Doesn't that sound like something we actually wanted for a long time? The problem that virtually everyone experiences when they change banks is that you don't really know all the places your bank account numbers are on. It can be from previous employers to places where you have previously received compensation or municipalities that have paid something out to you. Everyone to whom you have given your bank account number at some point in your life may very well retain it and have it linked to you as a person. When switching banks, a payment can easily be made to an account that does not exist or – even worse – to someone who has received even the previous account number. With today's Swish, direct debit, e-invoices and so on, there is also much more that is constantly linked to the bank account number. Since I first entered the Riksdag in 2014, I myself have exercised about making bank account numbers removable. I've rekindled that exercise every year. It is a little unexpected that not everyone in Parliament sees the potential that this actually has and, above all, how it could affect competition between banks. The interesting thing about the banks is that the smaller banks, which have not existed for so long – like Ikanobanken and Forex – are very positive to a system with mobile account numbers. It is worse with the old big banks, which point out that the systems are not compatible and that it is therefore kind of impossible. If you did not know better, you could almost think that they are trying to exploit their position to make it more difficult for new players. We all remember what it was like when we started talking about mobile phone numbers and the big telecommunications companies were asked. They said it was impossible. It was completely impossible to get a system where you could move phone numbers – until the decision was made that forced them to make the impossible possible. So the lesson from the telecommunications industry is that a decision that is binding is far less impossible. In our Sweden, it should be easy to change banks. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to make my pleas. Of course, we support all our reservations, and there are many in this report. We are fully behind them, but for time-winning and not to unnecessarily extend the voting time – especially now that Björn Söder is no longer the President – I only call for our reservation 4 and for reservation 8, which we have in common with the Center Party.
i-WAaJS4LgoZpAvXiNvxii7P	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Per Bolund, Minister Hans Dahlgren, Minister Jennie Nilsso n and Minister Åsa Lindhagen. A question must be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject that falls within the responsibility of the Government and concerns the performance of its duties The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-259	Madam President, I would like The documentary on Josefin Nilsson's life leaves no one untouched. In the wake of it there has been a discussion about men's violence against women. According to statistics from the Crime Prevention Council, 22 women were murdered by a related man last year. That is the highest figure in many years. The statistics also say that in 2018 an average of 36 assault offences were reported a day in which the perpetrator and the victim were in close relationship with each other. Yesterday we heard criticisms from Amnesty, which indicate that the number of reported rapes has increased by over 1,500 in ten years. At the same time, both the proportion and the number that led to prosecutions have decreased.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-261	Madam President, I would like I don't think anyone's unmoved either. In this matter, it is important to bear in mind that Josefin Nilsson's story is not unique. Every fourth woman will be subjected to violence in a close relationship at some point in her life. So this is an enormous social problem. I imagine it's about two parts. One is that we need more cops. There the government also has high ambitions: 10 000 more police officers in the next few years. Strengthening the police is a very important part. The second important part concerns the judicial process: to ensure that offenders receive their punishments and to provide assistance in different ways in the judicial process to those who are vulnerable. This can be done in several ways. An important part, for example, is the ability of social services to provide support for victims of violence, which may be important for them to be able to cope with legal proceedings.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-264	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. When it comes to men's violence against women, sexual crimes and harassment, something that too many women experience, fine words and good intentions are not enough. Calling oneself a feminist government commits. The word must be translated into action. I therefore wonder: why does the government say no to increasing the penalties for gross violation of women's rights? And why does the government delay raising the penalty for rape?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-266	Madam President, I would like There are many things we need to do in these areas. In the cooperation between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals on our amending budget, we have just gone out with an investment of SEK 45 million against men's violence against women. We also have initiatives on women's shelters which are extremely important. There are many parts. We have also received consent legislation in place, an extremely important part of strengthening women's protection in society. We need to work broadly on the issues, and we now also need to work on implementing a culture of consent. There is much to talk about in these matters.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-268	Madam President, I would like The issue of the EU Copyright Directive has been hugely involved in recent times. This commitment may not have been felt by the government to a great extent. What has created the most discussion has concerned the issue of link tax, which will make it more difficult to share information on the internet. It will also become less obvious what you share. One could say that the internet becomes less free. We also have the issue of upload filters, which will lead to material being examined before it is posted. This will of course require some type of filter. This too will make the internet less free. My question to the Government is simply: Why do we need link taxes? Why do we need upload filters? Why has the government announced that Sweden will vote in favour of the EU Copyright Directive?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-271	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. We note that the European Parliament has now said yes to this directive. This means that it will come up for a vote in the Council of Ministers in the near future. In that vote, Sweden will be able to vote in favour, vote against or abstain. Prior to that vote and position, the government will consult the EU Board as always. It is well known – as Martin Kinnunen pointed out – that the directive has been the subject of a wide-ranging debate here in Sweden. There are many who have expressed that Sweden should vote 'no'. There are also clear reasons for voting in favour. I just want to say that it is too early right now to say how Sweden will stand in the final vote. We will come back to the European Council on this issue.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-274	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is interesting to say now that you are unsure of what you want to do. This is because, in all probability, we have a majority in Parliament that is against this. But the government has already announced how to vote. The Council of Ministers has not pushed for a clear 'no', but has supported the proposal during the trilogue negotiations. Why did the EU Board not consult before? What can happen now is that the government is forced to change its position to the final adoption.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-276	Madam President, I would like As far as I am aware, there have been a number of contacts with the committee responsible on this issue. Information has always been provided on how the negotiations have gone and how the government has acted. The final position will only be taken after consultation of the EU Board.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-277	Madam President, I would like In a short time, we will be taking a decision here in Parliament, on a proposal from the Parliament's Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, on an announcement to the government to introduce an administrative hunt for seals throughout the country. We do so with the support of modern research and the opinions of the relevant authorities. We do this because, among other things, part of the Swedish business community on the Swedish rural coasts is directly threatened by today for large populations of seals. It is Swedish professional fishing that is threatened.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-279	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Anders Åkesson! This announcement from the Riksdag is fresh. We only found out the other week. We will, of course, prepare it in the Government Office. At the same time, the question is not new. This is an issue that has been discussed over time. There has been an investigation mission that has looked at the possibilities. The investigation has also proposed whether to introduce a licence hunt or to work more effectively with a protection hunt. So my answer at this point is that I have noted that the announcement is coming. We will work on it as soon as possible. There is a good basis for dealing with the issue from the outside. I'll get back to you as soon as we've finished looking at the question.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-283	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Jennie Nilsson for her reply. Can I interpret the Government's answer as that, based on the preparation that is under way and the announcement that is about to be given, she is open to introducing management hunting for seals in Sweden's coastal and sea waters, in order to achieve a balanced tribe and to maintain a part of the business community in Swedish countryside, coastal fishing?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-285	Madam President, I would like I am open to getting the most sustainable and good solution to the issue as possible, taking into account both the conditions of fishermen and the overall sustainability of the fish stock. We will look at all the different tools available. We will look at the pros and cons of license hunting or protection hunting but also at developing selective gear. So I am open to looking at all the measures available to us to find the most balanced solution possible.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-287	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. Today, the government made a proposal to strengthen measures against trade in rental contracts. That proposal also includes criminalisation of the purchase of rental contracts. The Left Party is in favour of the Government's ambition to tighten up the rules to tackle those who exploit the housing shortage and the homeless. But we are very hesitant about the government's proposal to criminalise the purchase. It is about people who are victims of the housing shortage. I therefore wonder why you want to criminalise the purchase of rental contracts when everything indicates that it risks hitting vulnerable groups hard, rather than focusing on building up the housing shortage that forces people to buy rental contracts.
i-4p99fzQEmXKQ93pLn8pxCg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Momodou Malcolm Jallow, for an important question! These are difficult trade-offs that have to be made. We know that we have a major challenge in a far too poorly functioning housing market. It leads to deviance; now black contracts are traded for very large sums of money in our society. It is a trade that also fattens criminal actors who harm our society in the long term and who often engage in crime in many different areas. They finance their activities through this, among other things. That is why we also need to push hard to overcome this market. It is a market that we all lose in the end. As a result, the housing market works worse than it could otherwise. This is only part of the government's housing policy. We need to use these tools. But we also need to stimulate the construction of more housing, for example through the investment aid introduced by the government and through the points contained in the January agreement, which also means that we can have an increase in housing construction in the future. So this should not be seen as the only measure, but only as part of a functioning housing policy.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-294	Madam President, I would like The proposal is costly and ineffective, according to the Law Council. It also runs the risk of penalising people who are already in a vulnerable situation. We have what's called the Sex Purchase Act. That's where you focus on the perpetrator and not the victim. That's an amazingly good principle. Why do you abandon this principle and want to punish the victims, Per Bolund? It's about people who are desperate and need a place to live because politicians haven't been able to fix this.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-296	Madam President, I would like It is important to remember that this is not the only change we are making. There are several parts. Among other things, the landlord is given the opportunity to terminate the contract immediately. There will also be stricter penalties for the seller or broker of rental contracts. It will also not be allowed to rent out a rental apartment to over-rent without permission. So this is just a part. I would say that the most vulnerable are those who do not even have the financial means to enter the black market. They will be better placed if we manage to manage that market and bring down the trade in black contracts.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-299	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Housing. There are far too few homes being built today. Young people are particularly affected by today's situation when they cannot buy their first home. The number of homes built quickly collapses to a level that creates a housing crisis. Measures taken by the government to cope with the housing crisis do not look good. And proper measures are needed. It is clear to me that credit restrictions need to be reviewed in order for it to once again be possible to borrow in order to buy its home at normal levels. Much suggests that, despite the good purpose, the credit restrictions are unwarrantedly harsh against households. Much of the decline in housing construction may be due to severe credit restrictions. If this does not change, we risk ending up in another politically orchestrated housing crisis with households who find it difficult to ask for housing rights and construction companies that do not build because there is no demand. Does the Minister of Housing think that we need to ease credit restrictions in order to get the market going and thus housing construction?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-303	Madam President, I would like It's interesting that Larry Söder calls it a return to normal levels. I would like to say that it was the system that we had before the amortisation requirement was introduced that was abnormal, which led to a development of grace-free loans. There Sweden stood out extremely much compared to our surrounding world. We still stand out by having a weaker amortisation culture than many other countries. In many other countries it is normal to amortise loans for 10, 20 or 30 years. So what are normal levels we can discuss. Of course, we have to make it possible for people to borrow. We have a functioning credit market. It is still possible to borrow on the Swedish market. But we also need to think wider. We need to see how we can stimulate the construction of decent housing, for example through government investment aid. We need to review the construction rules so that it will also be possible to reduce the costs of construction. However, we also need to implement free renting in the case of new construction of rental apartments, for example. The government is working extensively on this issue to get a better functioning housing market.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-307	Madam President, I would like I believe that we may not have a mortgage market that works because young people cannot borrow for their first home. It is one of the problems that means that there is not enough housing either. I can't see that the Minister of Housing can get around this issue. We need to review the credit restrictions in one way or another and lighten them so that people can demand the necessary housing. It's the kids who get caught. I appeal to the Minister for Housing to look at this one more time.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-310	Madam President, I would like There are statistics that speak in a different direction from what Larry Söder points out. If you look at the share of households among borrowers under 30, you can see that they have grown quite sharply. The volume of loans taken by households under 30 has also increased over time. So it's not a clear-cut picture that Larry Söder is trying to give the impression of. Of course, we must always be prepared to review the regulations and ensure that they are properly adapted. This brings us to the issue of taxation, where the government has also said that we should carry out a tax review. It can also lead to changes in conditions in the future.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-313	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Åsa Lindhagen. I have been asked by the Government about some problems relating to ageism and age discrimination. I can read from the answer that combating discrimination and promoting a society that safeguards the equal value of all people is, for me, an important issue. The Government has stated in the Government Declaration that the Discrimination Act should be tightened up. ..................................................... My question then is: what is the state of work with this tightening up?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-316	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Westerholm, for the question. We have talked about ageism here in the speaker's seat before. These are important issues. The tightening of anti-discrimination legislation is about the possibility of reviewing sanctions when workplaces do not comply with anti-discrimination legislation, when active measures are not taken to prevent discrimination in different ways. I believe that there is a great need for this investigation to see how we can strengthen anti-discrimination work in our workplaces. The investigation will start in the future. I will simply have reason to come back to you in the future.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-320	Madam President, I would like It is good to tighten up the workplaces. But this is much wider than that. Age discrimination exists in all sectors of society. I would have liked to have seen a much broader mission to the investigation.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-321	Madam President, I would like Discrimination goes through in society on a variety of levels, so I fully agree with Barbro Westerholm that we need to work broadly on the issues. I also believe that it is extremely important that we, not least in our workplaces, make progress in relation to discrimination of various kinds. We also have major problems with sexual harassment, for example, which has become very visible over the last one and a half years. There's a lot to do here. The sharpening will be an important part of this.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-323	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hans Dahlgren. There have been many trips around Brexit. Despite the fact that less than a week remains until the UK's now decided exit date from the EU, there is still no exit agreement in place. We see an obvious risk of a harsh Brexit, that is, Britain leaving the EU without agreements. The consequences of a disorderly withdrawal would have serious consequences for not least the hundreds of thousands of Swedes currently working or living in the UK. Our citizens would be in danger of being without the right to health care, denied access to medicine or unable to finish training courses. Thousands of Swedish pensioners could lose their pension. There is cause for concern. Therefore, my question to the Government is as follows: Is Sweden prepared for a hard Brexit?
i-X5V2sm4Y3XxS2ZxCAdz8J5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aylin Fazelian, for the question! I would like to say that Sweden has a decent level of preparedness for this which we hope to avoid, that is, a harsh Brexit. I had the opportunity, together with the Prime Minister, to meet with the EU's Chief Negotiator Michel Barnier this morning to discuss the current situation. It is true that if nothing else happens, Britain will leave the EU on 12 April without an agreement. We have prepared: The Riksdag has made or is in the process of making decisions and the Government has adopted regulations which mean that we in a decent way enable Swedish citizens in the UK to get about the same conditions, at least during a transitional period, and also for the British who live in Sweden to get such conditions. However, there will be problems. There will also be problems at the border. In the port of Gothenburg, all goods transported between the UK and Sweden must be subject to customs controls and customs clearance. So it's going to be difficult.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-330	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is important and positive that the government has a readiness and a planned plan for a hard Brexit. But just as the Government says, the consequences will be there, no matter what form of Brexit you land in. The consequences will be for all citizens throughout the EU. I also have a supplementary question. How will the common man in Sweden feel of Brexit?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-333	Madam President, I would like If it becomes a hard Brexit of the kind that you crash out of the EU, I think it will be felt on the possibility of accessing British products at the same price as before. The possibility of selling Swedish goods in the UK will, of course, be worse. It can have repercussions on both jobs and prices in this country. This can therefore be a direct consequence during a transitional period. Then, of course, we will also have a good relationship with the UK at some point in the future, even if they crash out. But it will take time, especially when it comes to building up the confidence that is needed.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-336	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. In Sweden we have 70 percent forest. So the largest part of our surface is tree - covered. But we have very little natural forest. The pressure on the forest is very high, and 61 percent of the forest is now younger than 60 years old. Since the 1950s, the compensation for timber has been more than halved, according to Skogsstyrelsen. It has gone from SEK 700 per cubic metre to SEK 300. It is the individual landowner that is disadvantaged while the large companies are making billions of profits. We must abandon the era of industrializing nature at the expense of the diversity of life and the economy of the individual user.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-340	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rebecka Le Moine, for the question. Forests are one of our most important natural resources. It contains very large values that must be able to be reconciled. This is an important part of our basic nutrition. Large parts of our bnp are generated by having sustainable forestry that enables us to have highly refined products. At the same time, the forest is home to biodiversity, and it gives us opportunities for recreation, health and so on. Forests are also part of the solution to the climate challenge. We have a policy that takes a concerted approach to how we ensure that all these values can be reconciled and developed. It is an extremely priority issue. We intend to prepare a product on how we work further on forestry issues during our term of office and will come back to Parliament one with it.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I would like to inform you that the forest accounts for about 3% of GDP while tourism is changing, which I find very exciting. Now about 44,000 people have signed our forest campaign. The citizens demand that Sveaskog turn into a clean forest. With clean forestry, both tourism and recreational values can be maintained.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-347	Madam President, I would like We listen to all the comments that come in and try at all times to make overall assessments. Sveaskog is a state-owned company that will operate under market conditions. But like all other government companies and authorities, it is obviously expected to be a forerunner. I assume that they will accept their responsibilities and listen to these views. Politics then weaves together all the parts that need to be weighed together in something that will be good.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-350	Madam President, I would like Prior to the 1966 municipal elections, Tage Erlander was asked by the three O's about what advice he had to give to a young couple who were about to start a family and had no place to live. The Government of Per Bolund has also received the same question since he took office as Minister of Housing. In News at the end of February, the answer was that he wished there was a magic wand so that we could solve the situation here and now. Unlike Per Bolund, I don't think it takes a wand. On the other hand, concrete political proposals are needed, Madam President. However, I think we can all agree on the problem picture. Sweden has a huge housing shortage that hits those who are not on the housing market hardest, including young people. At the same time, there are builders who want to build more housing for young people, but they say that it is too difficult because the building rules in Sweden are complex and cost-driven. On 12 March, Minister Per Bolund presented his only concrete proposal so far on how to mitigate the building rules, namely that it will be easier to build the terrace without building permits. My question to the Minister for Housing is therefore: how does it become easier for young people to get housing by reducing the requirement for building permits for patios?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-354	Madam President, I would like The answer is that this is not a measure that in itself makes it easier for young people. This can in itself relieve municipal administrators of the administrative burden that this would entail. They can then devote their time to other construction plans, which in the longer term may facilitate something. Of course, this is not part of the government's housing policy, but we need to do much more. We have an investigation that works intensively and has done so for a long time. It will come up with proposals for more modern building rules so that we can ensure that they are adapted to today's circumstances. We also have an active housing policy in which we support the construction of small, cost-effective rental apartments with reasonable rent. We are also going to make a major tax review. There, the functioning of the housing market must be the guiding factor in getting housing construction started. Unfortunately, it is frustrating that housing policy is not delivering at the moment. It takes a while before you see the development of it. We now have a building at a higher level than we have seen historically, which in itself is gratifying not least for those seeking housing.
i-SUk6eXiZSBHPgYuvSpiWjK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I come from Gothenburg. There was the queue time in the municipal housing queue in January to March this year 2,666 days, or just under seven and a half years, in the most popular district of Majorna-Linné-Linné. In the least popular district of Western Hisingen, the time was 1,524 days, or just over four years. Unless the wands or patios are the answer when it comes to bringing down the housing shortage for young people, what is the first measure that the Minister for Housing wants to take in order to reduce the queue time and get up the building of homes for young people?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-358	Madam President, I would like You shouldn't confuse it. Standing in the housing queue is not the same as having an acute housing shortage. Many people on the housing queue actually have a dwelling and a security in the housing market. That is not to say that the problem does not exist. Many people are looking for housing and have an emergency situation. There is also a need for concrete, effective housing policy. This government has introduced an active housing policy where we are now spending a lot of money just to stimulate housing that would otherwise not have been built – housing with reasonable rents that are suitable for young people's conditions. This is a policy that has been lacking for a long time and where the alliance government did not come up with the answers.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-361	Madam President, I would like The present proposal for a long-term budget contains a new item called the EU budget and Economic and Monetary Union, which contains a number of instruments specifically targeted at those countries that have or wish to have the euro as their currency. This is a stabilisation mechanism for investment in the euro zone, which Sweden will therefore finance but cannot take part in, and a so-called convergence facility to help other states meet the criteria for adopting the euro, despite the fact that the very purpose of the criteria is for the countries to achieve a certain level of stability themselves first, and a reform tool that will act as a carrot for all states to implement reforms in the Semester, as Sweden generally always does in all cases. Given that Sweden's EU contribution may explode during the coming long-term budget, I would therefore like to ask Minister Hans Dahlgren why his government considers it reasonable that Swedish taxpayers should go in and finance instruments that will not benefit Sweden.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-364	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Ludvig Aspling for the question! The structure and instruments of the EU's long-term budget are a major and important issue. Although there are proposals to have a specific euro-zone budget within the framework of the long-term budget, it is our firm view of principle that things that Sweden cannot take part in should not be involved in financing either. I agree with the risk that if the Commission's proposal goes through, we will be able to get an increased fee to the European Union, and that is why we have laid down so clearly and with broad support in the European Council the policy that will enable us to pursue a completely different direction on the budgetary outcome in the future.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-367	Madam President, I would like I must say that it is a good news that the Social Democrats have a reasonable attitude on this issue. We also find it completely bizarre that Sweden should go in and fund instruments that we cannot benefit from at all. If the Commission's proposal goes through, the Government says. I wonder a little how he's reasoning then. It sounds a little bit like this would be a matter of chance or luck. But it is not, but it depends on whether Sweden is prepared to use the veto to stop a proposal containing such instruments.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-369	Madam President, I would like It is a fact that the EU's long-term budget must be determined by unanimity. The 28 members of the European Council, or perhaps 27 at that time, who are to sit on the last night and settle this matter, must come to an agreement. It is clear then that all countries have a veto. But it is also a duty for everyone to get along, and then it becomes a giving and a taking. It will be a difficult job, but with the broad support of the European Council for the Government's guideline, I think it will go well.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-371	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Åsa Lindhagen, and I want to talk about violence in close relationships – violence against women, this evil that in some strange way remains in a modern Sweden, although it should belong at the community dump. Every fourth woman is subjected to violence in a close relationship. Every seventh child is affected, that is, beaten or seen her mother beaten. According to criminologist Nina Rung, 22 women were killed last year. The municipalities are now responsible for protecting women who are victims of violence. But what does it really look like in our municipalities? Many people don't have their own shelter. Many discuss whether to support applications from women's shelters in larger municipalities. I am therefore extremely pleased that we have increased support under the January agreement for women's shelters. But it is something that gnaws, because why should women's shelters seek their own economic survival when we know that it actually looks so different in the country and can beat so different for women who need support?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-375	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Vilhelmsson, for the very important question! Of course, it is extremely important that no matter where in Sweden you live, you should receive protection and support if you are exposed to violence in close relationships or honor-related violence and oppression. We are now making an effort in collaboration with the Center Party and Liberals of SEK 45 million to combat violence in close relationships. But, as Helena Vilhelmsson points out, providing protection and support is an issue that lies at the municipal level. I therefore believe that we also need to see what we can do at the national level to stimulate the development of municipalities in different ways, provide support in different ways and also collaborate on what works well and what we can learn from each other. It goes without saying that you must be able to get protection and support wherever you live in the country, so I would like to thank the Member of Parliament for raising the important issue.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-378	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think it is extremely important to focus and really get to the core: What is the difference between different activities? If you have an addiction, the municipality has a responsibility to ensure that you get the protection or treatment you need. These activities are carried out many times by other actors than municipal ones, but they do not have to look for money for their own survival. Somewhere we need to get to the structure of this, and I would like the Minister to develop his view on this a little.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-381	Madam President, I would like It is a fact that the non-profit sector in Sweden has taken an enormous responsibility in combating and managing the consequences of this violence. The women's rights movement has taken on a responsibility that ultimately rests on the public, and we cannot back down there – that is the public's responsibility. The public has, of course, a huge responsibility to give civil society good opportunities to do their job. I understand that one can be provoked by the fact that women's shelters do not always have the opportunities that they need, because they do a very important job on a daily basis.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-383	Madam President, I would like Last week, the European Parliament voted through the Copyright Directive by a narrow majority. Among Swedish parties, only the Social Democrats are in favour of this directive. The remaining Swedish parties voted against this in Parliament. Here the government has been critical at first but then suddenly changed its mind on the matter, when you approved the directive at ministerial level. The Industry Committee has criticised the fact that the Government has not received sufficient support in the Riksdag for this approval. My question to EU Minister Hans Dahlgren is whether it will seek the support of Parliament in the EU Board on this issue and, if so, that the result will be that Sweden's position against the proposal will also be Sweden's position in the Council of Ministers in the future.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-386	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for the question! Earlier in this Question Time, I have commented on the same question, and the answer now is the same: ahead of the vote in the Council of Ministers, the government will consult the EU Board in the way that always happens. We will talk about the direction of the government in good time before that.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-387	Madam President, I would like In the Committee on Industry and Industry, we gave the government a large and free mandate on this issue, but it is also quite difficult for us other parties that are not part of the government base to call for consultations if we do not see that the government intends to change its mind. When and why did the government change its mind on the matter?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-389	Madam President, I would like I don't want to sign the description of Camilla Brodin here. On the contrary, as I understand it, it has been an ongoing and transparent information to the committee throughout the journey. Eventually, the final position will also be taken by the EU Board.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-391	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister Per Bolund. It's a consumer issue with bearing on residential units. Recently, the media, including P1's Consumer Progamation Wallet, have noted that there is an increasing number of disputes between companies selling new residential apartments and buyers. It could be a little bit different. For example, it may be that you are not satisfied with the quality and standard that has been promised. For example, there may be a bit of weak interior walls or that there are other materials in the carpentry than has been seen in the prospectus. It may be even more serious that the dwelling is not even ready when you have expected to have access to it. It is, of course, hard for both buyers and sellers to have to argue on these issues. My question is: how does the Minister view the problem, and what can be done?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-394	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin Lundgren, for an important question! A home purchase is often the biggest deal we make in our lives. It is therefore important to ensure that, as far as possible, the regulatory framework really avoids disputes, difficulties and uncertainty. Here there are different interests that sometimes resist each other. The builder has quite large business risks. Big investments are being made. You want to feel confident that you also have someone as a buyer in the end. The law now recognizes pre-contractual agreements that enable business risks to be addressed in the case of new construction. But there must also be demands on the construction companies at the other end. We must reduce uncertainty by, for example, informing, designing the contract in a good way and also planning the construction work so that we actually deliver what we have agreed on. There have been disputes here. They're still going on. For example, the Stockholm District Court has ruled in a judgment that a delay of six weeks after you would have had access to the apartment is not a reasonable time, and then you also have the opportunity to cancel the agreement. It is a case law that is now being developed.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-398	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. My supplementary question relates precisely to what the Minister touched on, namely that the agreements are often perceived as being rather difficult to understand. This is especially true for the buyer. It is not easy to understand what rights you have. I therefore wonder whether the Minister sees whether there are opportunities for improvement in the agreements as well.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-399	Madam President, I would like I think there are great opportunities to improve there. When the market changes, the conditions and needs change. I hope that, in dialogue with the construction companies, we will be able to make the agreements more effective and, not least, better information provision. The economic situation is also affected here. For example, you get clear information not only about your own debts but also about your association's debts when you enter a housing association, which is an incredibly important consumer issue. With regard to time, which has been most on the agenda, there is now a development of practice in the courts.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-401	Madam President, I would like Much of this spring's debate has been marked by threats and harassment that animal keepers and entrepreneurs are subjected to by animal rights activists. Now it's finally ours. With that, it's time for our cows to come out on green pasture. Many farmers open their farms and workplaces to the general public during cow-releases. It is a way to show off their activities and Swedish animal husbandry to the public under rather nice forms. Now this openness is again threatened by animal rights activists around the country who are quite openly preparing to harass both animal keepers and families during these occasions. The consequence is that farmers do not invite to open farms, and an open business today will take place behind closed doors.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-405	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for a very important question! First of all, I would like to say that it is not being dealt with in my department or under my responsibility. It is Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson who has these kinds of questions. But given that it concerns a group that is in my area, that is, the conditions for farmers to carry out their activities, I have, of course, followed the matter very closely, and we also have dialogue. What has been done right now is that a number of different measures have been taken to look at penalties for this. I would like to make it very clear that I reject making this type of activity as a basis for trying to make a political position or something else known. It is extremely important that we together are very clear that it is not okay and that we work with all the tools that are available to get to grips with it. I am prepared to continue to look further at this issue. It is a very priority.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have noted in previous debates in this House that the Government shares my view of the problem of animal rights terrorists. But the phenomenon continues to spread across the country. It's an emergency now. Unfortunately, just listening to the problem and preparing for action is not enough. I feel that the government is not quite there but to put its foot down and tackle this important problem.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-411	Madam President, I would like 30 seconds of speaking time is short when you want to debate important issues. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we have done a number of different things. We have tightened the penalties for these kinds of measures. We have given the police clear instructions through the regulation letter that it should be given priority. We follow the issue very closely and have a dialogue with the LRF on the appropriate tools to address the problem. Politics has also been very clear in common that it is not okay.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-412	Madam President, I would like One question that is very big for many of us living in the countryside is the large boar tribe. For farms in some counties, it is by far the most important and serious concern. We are talking about damage for over SEK 1.5 billion per year in agriculture alone. In addition, there will be costs of traffic accidents and destroyed gardens. With mild winters and a good access to food, the wild boar tribe explodes completely. We also know that the dreaded African swine fever affects many countries in Europe and may also affect Sweden. Last year 112,000 wild boars were felled. However, reports show that at least twice as many people need to be shot to keep the tribe in check. My question to the Minister for Rural Development is whether it is a priority for the government to reduce the feral pig population in Sweden.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-415	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Magnus Oscarsson! That's an easy question. Yes, it is a priority for the government to deal with this. We decided in the first step, I think it was last week, to facilitate and streamline hunting for wild boars by hunting at night and using thermal visibility. You can use other types of tools when hunting that make it easier, more efficient and safer. There is already an assignment that will be reported after the summer about how to take further steps to, for example, be able to sell in shops and facilitate the processes that will increase your interest in hunters to want to hunt wild boar. It will have to be made possible, but there will also be someone who wants to do so.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-418	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is gratifying to hear that the government has measures. It's urgent. When you're out meeting many farmers, you don't just hear that profitability is bad. The wild boars cause many people to say: That's enough, I quit. I would like to see even more action. If I may wish myself, I would like to see more rapid measures to really tackle this issue in an emergency.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-420	Madam President, I would like The answer is that we do a number of things. We have already put forward proposals that will come into force before the summer that will allow hunting. There is already a study of directives on how to increase interest in hunting. If Magnus Oscarsson has more good tips, they are gratefully received, and I'll take it into account.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-422	Madam President, I would like At school, the foundation of our community building is laid. It starts in preschool, and it continues in primary and secondary school. It then follows people through life as an opportunity for lifelong learning. Everyone has experience from school that has colored their knowledge, perceptions and ways of being to varying degrees. Therefore, the school is also crucial to the society that we have and recreate. The values that we want our social community to be borne must therefore characterise the school's activities. Equality is such a value. The school also rightly has the mission to help students develop their ability to critically examine gender patterns and how these can limit people's life choices and conditions. If we look at the results – i.e. how this comes about in school results, in mental health and in almost every sector of society – it is clear that the school is not really successful.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-426	Madam President, I would like Just as the Member of Parliament highlights, it is crucial to work with gender equality in school. Among other things, we have two challenges that I would like to highlight. One is the school results, which differ greatly between boys and girls. Boys don't get the same results. Of course, it is a very important part of creating an equal society that boys should have the same opportunities in school as girls. The second challenge is mental illness. This is an important aspect especially in the case of girls, who are under considerable stress in society today. We need to provide good conditions for our children and young people to go out into life and create and participate in building this society in a good way. The school is absolutely central, and these are two important challenges we need to work on when it comes to school. This applies to both school results and mental illness.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-430	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. School can also be part of building a stronger community and a society that views differences as assets. One way of fulfilling this function could be that school is the place where people from different backgrounds meet and respect and understand each other. At the same time, we see that students from different backgrounds go to different schools. Segregation and inequality are the biggest concerns of the Swedish school, if we are to believe the OECD. How does the Government view the role of the school system in creating a more inclusive society?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-433	Madam President, I would like This too is an extremely important issue raised by Linus Sköld. I'm thinking that school segregation in a lot is related to housing segregation. We need to meet, exactly as the Member of Parliament describes, and we have great challenges with segregation in Sweden today. There is no quick fix to solve it, but there is a long-term strategy to counter segregation in society. We also have an investigation that looks at how we can reduce school segregation in order to increase equivalence in primary and preschool schools. It's also very important.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-436	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. The greatest injustice in Sweden today is probably between those who can buy the relative security of the wealthy residential area and those referred to the violence and gang logic of the increasingly vulnerable rental areas. It is a broad perception in Sweden that the government is increasingly losing control of the basic functions of our society. Madam President, I would like One such thing, which establishes how our society should work and how we can finance what is common, is the tax system and how the money should come in and be sufficient. Here it is very unclear what the government wants. There is a tax reform in which some talk about higher taxes and others talk about lower taxes. My question to Minister Per Bolund is: How high taxes does the Government see that we will have in the future, especially on fuel?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-440	Madam President, I would like It is important to point out that much is also going in the right direction. There are areas that have previously been exposed, according to the police's definition, that are removed from this development and where you get order, security and security. There, of course, we will continue the work. But it is also a question of reducing economic disparities. They have been allowed to increase for too long. It is also something that will be a prerequisite for the tax review that we, the four parties that are behind the January agreement, are going to do jointly. So far, we've just begun our work. We have not produced the necessary evidence to be able to make informed decisions, so we must all support ourselves and wait for a good basis. When we have it, we can make decisions that will give us a tax system that will reduce economic gaps and create economic security. But it will also lead to better functioning of the housing market and, for example, increased employment in society. There we have high ambitions. However, it is so far too early to respond to what the exact design should be when we talk about tax changes.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-445	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister Hans Dahlgren. We do not yet know what will happen to Brexit and to Britain's possible withdrawal from the EU. The consequences may be significant both economically and politically. At the same time, the EU is currently negotiating the long-term budget. I would like to ask the Minister: How does Sweden view these negotiations and Sweden's fee? How might Brexit possibly affect this?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-447	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Lindh, for the question! As I said, this is an important negotiation that is taking place. As far as the Swedish fee is concerned, the ambition is, of course, to keep it down as far as possible. It is also important that we have a reasonable share of the EU budget for Sweden. This must not happen as a result of the proposal put forward by the Commission that the discounts that Sweden and some other countries have had to take part in in the past are decreasing and that we have a larger share. This is not acceptable from the Swedish side. We have opposed this, and we will continue to oppose it. Then it's also important to keep the whole level down. When a large net contributor like the UK leaves the Union, it is clear that we have to correct the mouth after the lunch. It is not possible to continue with the same expenditure where the rest of us will take over payments for the British when they leave the Union. We will not accept that either. Then, of course, there are some things in this that are good. For example, we invest a little more in modern things such as innovation, research, development and climate adaptation. But we cannot accept the same money for agriculture as before.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-452	Madam President, I would like Honour-related violence and repression are one of the greatest threats to gender equality today. Yet we do not really know what it looks like. In 2017, the Government commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to map how widespread this is. Now, after two years, the National Board of Health and Welfare reports that you don't know. The Minister for Equality writes about this that it is unfortunate, but I would call it a failure. Knowledge of the existence of honour-related violence and oppression varies between the municipalities of the country. To combat oppression, the first step is precisely knowledge of it. It's necessary for you to see it. Not all municipalities, on the other hand, map the extent of honour-related violence and repression. The lack of knowledge and the investigation of this at national level must be seen as a failure. Knowledge is needed to implement the necessary legislation.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-456	Madam President, I would like It is true that I have said that it is unfortunate that we have not obtained these figures. I have also explained this to the National Board of Health and Welfare. Then it is that for many years, when I have been working on these issues in politics, I have had a clear starting point in that we do not need a survey to know that we are going to act. We know that the problem of honour-related violence and repression exists, and we do not have to wait for a survey to do anything. So this has been my entrance. Then it is still the case that knowledge is extremely important. We need to know what the problem is and see how it develops over time. We would have needed the mapping that the mission involved. Of course, we would have liked the figures, but we do not have to wait for them to act. That is my clear message from the government: we will not wait for these questions, but we will act. The EU's view of Romania's action
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-460	Madam President, I would like In Poland, the government has explicitly violated common EU laws, and in Hungary, Orbán's rhetoric has shaped an authoritarian government that limits real media freedom and academic freedom. Madam President, I would like In Romania, corruption that undermines democracy is legalised while the human dignity of the Roma is seconded. It will cost to violate the EU's values and the rule of law," says Minister Hans Dahlgren, and I fully agree. It is good that we now have a § 7 case against Hungary. The government has also identified Hungary and Poland as two countries that violate the EU's values and the rule of law. But what about Romania, Madam President? Why the silence of Romania's corruption and the way in which it acts? I hope it is not because Romania is governed by social democrats, but I would like clarification on how we view Romania's actions in the European Union.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-464	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. I can say that there is no silence about what Romania is doing. Last Tuesday, I took part in an interpellation debate in the Riksdag and clarified the Swedish Government's view on how we view the violations of the rule of law that occur in Romania. The Commission has also made clear in its recent monitoring reports its criticism of what is happening. For example, we have a person who has been the head of the Romanian anti-corruption authority who has been allowed to stop there and is now running for office as head of the European Public Prosecutor's Office but who is hardly allowed to come to Brussels to question this as a result of what the Romanian rulers have decided. That is not acceptable. This has nothing to do with the political color of those in government there. You should adhere to the principles of the rule of law regardless of which party you belong to.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-468	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question to Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. Last summer's drought meant that granbarkbord's expansion became very large in southern Sweden. According to the Swedish Forest Board's and forestry's inventories of the damage, more than 2 1⁄2 million cubic metres were affected in 2018. This corresponds to a value of about 1 billion. That's a lot of money. The Swedish Forest Board is now assessing that the attacks will be at least the same size this year. If it becomes a dry summer, you think they can fivefold. I myself have had granbarcroll attacks in my own forest every year since the storm Gudrun. I know what that means to me as a forest owner. For example, you can have the pleasure of cutting forests on Midsummer weekend.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-473	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Monica Haider, for the question! It's particularly relevant. It is quite correct that we have a major problem with the spruce bark drill and that the dry and warm climate may mean that there will be bigger problems in the future. What has been done so far is that the Swedish Forest Agency has taken a number of preventive measures. A large part of this is about felling forests in order to create protected areas and barriers. They also work with information to forest owners about how important it is to remove both damaged timber and timber located in the forest. We are following this issue closely and are ready to come back with further measures.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-477	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the news reached us that the Land and Environment Court had removed the derogation for the plant protection product Gaucho, for which the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate had granted a derogation for this year for Swedish beet growers. This means approximately a harvest reduction of 10 – 15 per cent for Swedish beet growers. It's, you might say, the whole profit margin that smokes. A majority of EU countries still allow the Gaucho plant protection product. Gaucho is a neonikotinide, which you can think what you want. It's dangerous to bees. But the alternative for Swedish beet growers is to use some pyrethroid, perhaps both two and three times, instead. It kills all insects instead, even utility insects in cultivation.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-480	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for the question! I think it is very important that we work broadly to strengthen the basic conditions for the whole chain of food production. It is about everything from supporting those who grow to further processing products and ensuring that good instruments are provided to reach out in new and growing markets. That is the work that we have been dealing with within the framework of the Food Strategy, where we are developing a second action plan. Linked to this, of course, there are conflicting issues in almost all policy areas. What is described here is a balance between the type of pesticides to be used on a crop and the damage it causes. I have to ask to come back to you on this in detail, because time does not allow for a more detailed answer. Balkan countries as potential EU Member States
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-483	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hans Dahlgren. In fact, in the shadow of Brexit, there are countries that are knocking and are keen to be part of the European Community. I am thinking of countries such as North America, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which want to be part of the existing European Community. Many young people in those countries today choose to seek a better future, including in EU countries. I read an article yesterday that said that from Bosnia 150 000 young and well-educated people have moved to EU countries, and they solve some of the problems that we in Sweden, for example, have with companies and institutions that need labour. Therefore, my question is: how does the Government view the possibility of making it easier for these countries to be part of the European Community?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-487	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. I would like to say that Sweden, like the European Union as a whole, benefits from closer cooperation with the countries mentioned by Mr Denis. However, we also want to be careful that we need to meet all the criteria we have set ourselves to become a member, such as respect for the functionality of the rule of law, democratic principles and human rights. But this possibility of membership also makes it easier to make economic and democratic reforms in these countries, and that is a good thing. We will continue to point to the European approach as the very best way forward for these countries, so that they will not be tempted to take a completely different path, because that would be unfortunate. But we also want to be careful to emphasise that it is the countries' own reform efforts that are crucial for the speed with which it can go.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-490	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Gender Equality a question. Sweden is considered to be an equal country in many situations. We have had a so-called feminist government in the last parliamentary term. That is why I am very concerned about developments in the field of mental illness. We can see that the number of sick leave due to mental illness is increasing, and 70% of those on sick leave are women. We Moderates came to an early conclusion that we wanted to close the Equality Agency. We believe that gender equality should be an integrated responsibility for all authorities. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Gender Equality is: how will the Minister act to achieve more equality in the field of mental health, and what could have been done differently?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-495	Madam President, I would like This is an extremely important issue concerning the situation of women. There are many different parts to touch there. However, the fact that women are on sick leave to a much greater extent is a gender equality problem. That's it. Women also work more hard at home with unpaid home and care work, for example. We need to work with the work environment at our workplaces. As far as gender mainstreaming is concerned, i.e. that gender equality should permeate our authorities, all our policies, our budgets, etc., I would like to point out that this is the government's strategy since 1994. So it goes back a long way. We are not setting up a gender equality authority to remove that strategy, but gender mainstreaming is fundamental in our policy. That's how we're supposed to work. It's an effective way to work. We also need a gender equality authority that keeps gender equality work together in different ways and ensures that this work moves forward. I would like to thank Member of Parliament Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm for raising the issue of women's situation, because it is a very important gender equality issue.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-500	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I am going to move around three different areas: distance contracts, complaints rights and bank account numbers. Being a consumer should be easy, and one should not have to suffer from aggressive marketing. Telephone sales are something that can be perceived as aggressive marketing, and as a consumer you can feel that you have been tricked into a contract that you do not want. For this reason, there is today a requirement in writing for telephone sales. This has reduced the number of unwanted agreements, which is a good thing. If a company calls you repeatedly without wanting to do so, it can be counted as aggressive marketing. Then it is possible for you to sign up for the NIX-Telephone barrier register. But that only applies if you're a private person. However, if you are an entrepreneur, the situation is different. If you are a small business owner or a person who owns a small forest property, for example, you are not covered by the rules that I just listed, because then you are counted as a trader. I believe that traders also need protection against aggressive marketing by telephone and the right to written contracts in the case of telephone sales. For this reason, I think that small businesses should have the same protection as Sweden's consumers. Madam President, I would like When I have bought a product, whether it is purchased by telephone, in stores or online, I have rights to complain about it. If you notice that there is a defect in a product within six months of buying it, and if it is a defect in origin, you have the right to return it. It is the store that has to prove that you have caused the fault or not. I and the Center Party want to extend this to 12 months. So it is the seller who has the burden of proof for 12 months that the goods did not have an error from the outset. When consumers are given greater opportunities to advertise goods, I believe that it is becoming more important for companies to produce products that last longer. This, in turn, is good for sustainable development. In addition, we want the right to complain about a product to follow the product itself. If you sell the product on, the owner of the next stage can return it to the original seller. Madam President, I would like Then I come to my third area in this speech. This is about the possibility of keeping your bank account number. I can keep my phone number for many years even if I change the operator. The reason for this is that it should be easy for the consumer – a lot is linked to our telephone numbers. The Center Party believes that this should also apply to bank account numbers, for the same reason. It should be easy for the consumer. Many direct debits and e-invoices are linked to both a person and a certain account number. It will be time-consuming and complicated for the changer. This is not usually raised as an important consumer issue, and in this debate we hear it for the second time. But I think there are now many people who have started to think about changing banks, and then we want it to be as simple as possible. It will then be important that you can easily transfer what is linked to the account number. We want to be on the side of consumers, and it should be simple. Then this is a step in the right direction. As I have said before, it should be easy to be a consumer. I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party but, for reasons of time, I choose to accept only the Center Party's reservation No 2.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-510	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 7. Liberals believe that the legal protection of the individual in small-scale building contracts needs to be strengthened. For the vast majority of people, a house store is the greatest financial commitment they make throughout their lives. The large costs involved in building new buildings mean that consumer protection in small-scale homes needs to be extra strong. Until a few years ago, there was a mandatory rule that the developer of a small building contract should ensure that there is a construction defect insurance policy valid for ten years. The rule on compulsory construction fault insurance was removed, as it turned out that the construction fault insurance very rarely helped the developer. Therefore, the obligation was abolished on 1 June 2014, but the requirement for the protection of completion was maintained. Weaknesses in building construction should normally be addressed through inspection, but the final inspection is not currently mandatory. If a final inspection is carried out, it shall be noted what defects and deficiencies occur in the building and what measures they lead to. In some situations, small-house contracts lead to disputes in court. The cost of this is a real problem for many. Most home insurance policies have some form of legal protection that can cover certain legal costs. In addition, there are only very limited possibilities for obtaining legal aid through the Legal Aid Board. First of all, the burden of proof as to what has been agreed should be further shifted to the benefit of the consumer through a general requirement that contracts for small-scale residential contracts be drawn up in writing. The written requirement automatically clarifies the scope of the work. Furthermore, it should be a mandatory requirement for final inspection. Today, only a final inspection is carried out at the request of one of the parties, which causes problems because the final inspection determines whether the contract is approved or not. Consideration should also be given to the need for legislative regulation as to who should appoint an inspector during the final inspection. In conclusion, the Liberals consider that the issue of the legal protection of the individual in small-scale housing contracts needs to be the subject of a broader review in the form of an investigation. The mission of the investigation should then include, but not be limited to, the sub-questions I have mentioned. Madam President, I would like This kind of legislation would not only improve legal certainty. It would also change the general approach to small-house contracts – business culture, one might say. It would be a change in favour of the individual's legal protection in the case of small-house contracts, and that is the will of the Liberals in this case. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 7.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-519	Madam President, I would like Today, as I said, we are debating the report 10 by the Committee on Civil Liberties on consumer law. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. We're all consumers. We have different preferences as to what we choose for food or what we choose for cinema to watch. On the other hand, navigating among advertising and the media and making the right choices is not always easy. At worst, the consequence is that you are put in debt, which can affect you and your family. It is important that Sweden has legislation that protects consumers and makes it easy for consumers to make informed and safe choices. Of course, the most basic thing is that consumers are not being fooled. A problem encountered by many consumers is fake invoices. These cause costs for those affected, especially for individuals with limited financial resources. It is important to be clear that anyone who sends out a scam has been guilty of a crime. In 2017, a new penalty clause was introduced on gross claims fraud. It targets those who have put in systems to send fake invoices. It is important that those affected by fake invoices can receive guidance and know that support is available from the police or from the Kronofogden. The business community has established a warning list on the Swedish Commerce website, and the Consumer Information Service Hallå konsument also discloses information about rogue actors. There is a study on the identification of measures to further address the problem of fraud invoices, and it focuses on prevention. If the fraud invoices are not paid, the financial incentive will disappear, and they will not be sent out. But society needs to provide support and information. Today there are several places where a consumer can get this support and this information. To begin with, there is the municipal consumer guide, which is a voluntary commitment for Swedish municipalities. The last report showed that 234 municipalities offered consumer guidance. There was a decrease of 14 municipalities since the previous year. Since spring 2015, there is also the Hallå konsument service. It is a nationwide information service that provides information for consumers to make good choices. It also includes information on environmentally sustainable consumption. The Swedish Consumer Agency is responsible for providing and coordinating this information service. Hello consumer is available by phone, by e-mail and through its website. The website also contains materials that schools can use to teach personal economics in high school. This material is called Kolla on the cash, which might also have been an appropriate name for today's debate. The Government has commissioned Statskontoret to assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the support available in the form of impartial information and guidance. Statskontoret shall then propose improvements in relation to consumer support. Statskontoret must also take into account that different consumers may need different forms of support. Consumer support from both municipal and public authorities must be reviewed, and this must be reported by 30 April this year. Madam President, I would like A vulnerable group of consumers are children. Today, young children are greeted by advertising from various sources. It can be on Youtube, between children's shows on TV, in digital advertising boards and through attractive display windows. In addition, influencers have taken over parts of the net, which many find refreshing and entertaining. But there is also a lot of hidden marketing that can be difficult for children and young people to perceive. Politics has a responsibility to ensure that young consumers get a good start in life with the necessary equipment not to be deceived. There is a lot going on in this area for legislation to catch up with developments on the Internet, but I would like to mention three things briefly. Firstly, in January 2018, the report A changing advertising landscape – consumer protection and enforcement in a digitised world – was presented. This study emphasises training and advice in order to disseminate knowledge about current law and how it should be applied in new media. The investigation also proposes to introduce a provision in the Marketing Act that clarifies that marketing aimed at or even reaching children should show particular consideration for children's lack of experience and natural credulity. The proposal is currently being prepared in the Government Office. Secondly, the EU has adopted the Audiovisual Services Directive. This aims to ensure that Member States provide information on programmes likely to harm the development of minors. The rules for on-demand television are tightened up to achieve the same level of protection as for regular television. In connection with the directive, the Government has commissioned an investigator to review what Sweden needs to do to implement this particular directive. It must be reported no later than 17 August this year. Thirdly, Statskontoret has been tasked with investigating how public governance to promote healthy eating habits can be strengthened. The mission is to investigate what Sweden and comparable countries have for instruments to achieve more healthy food consumption and how effective these measures are. The assignment shall be presented at the end of May. However, it is not only children who can get hurt by thoughtless or aggressive marketing. No one watching TV has escaped the extremely annoying advertising of gambling casinos that have dominated advertising breaks. Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi has made it clear that this is a problem because it encourages gambling abuse. Swedish law applies to online casinos since 1 January, and this means that advertising should be moderate. It's not. The industry had a chance to return to the government with proposals for effective measures to regulate itself. However, the proposals presented are not enough, and the government has made it clear that a tougher legislation for gambling is to be expected. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by talking about consumer power. The summer drought of 2018 hit Sweden's farmers hard, and many wondered what can be done to support them. A very clear answer was to buy locally produced or at least something that is produced in Sweden. Making such a purchase is good not only for Swedish farmers, but also means that you will buy meat that has been produced with a better sense of animal husbandry, which has been transported a shorter distance and where it has been used significantly less antibiotics. So it is a purchase that benefits your body, the farmers and the environment. Today it is much harder to know what you put in if you go to a restaurant or eat in a large kitchen. The information is rarely printed, and sometimes it is difficult to get a clear answer from the staff. The January agreement clearly states that there should be an origin mark on meat and fish in restaurants and in large kitchens. A proposal will be submitted by spring 2020, and the following year an investigation will be added on the possibility that all products will have a product passport with information about where the product comes from, what it contains and how it can be recycled. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats look forward to continuing work to strengthen consumers' rights in order to make informed and secure choices.
i-JVHQ7ady7yDFjieP9Ujp8G	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sanne Lennström, for your speech. As I said in my speech, there are no significant differences in consumer policy. We have a fundamental consensus that there should be a high level of consumer protection in Sweden. But, Madam President, what is the difference between a year and a month? Well, it was a year ago that the Riksdag made an announcement to the government to return with proposals for legislation on written agreements in the case of telephone sales at lotteries. After all, the Social Democrats' lottery, the Kombilotterie, embarrassed itself. Lotteries were sold on credit, and over-indebted persons were sent to the Kronofogden. It's a real social problem. We can now see that Minister Shekarabi is very offensive when it comes to gambling advertising. He said in some statement that the actors will have until the end of March, and then there will be a noticeable change in advertising. But the same minister has done nothing in a year. The government is talking about aggressive gambling advertising. Indeed, television advertising has increased by 13 per cent since the turn of the year. But of the 13%, the state gaming company Svenska Spel accounts for 70%. The most aggressive gaming company in Sweden, in addition to the Social Democrats' own lottery, is thus the state gaming company. It would be interesting to hear how the Social Democrats in the Riksdag view the fact that people can be exposed, end up with the Kronofogden, by the fact that the Parliament's announcement has not been followed. Does the honourable Member share my view that it is a major problem that the government has not returned to Parliament with requests for written agreements on lottery sales by telephone?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-543	Madam President, I would like To begin with, we can say that at least me and Lars Beckman have a common understanding that gambling is problematic and can lead to people being put into debt, which of course is not good. Lars Beckman and his moderate colleagues removed Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister after the election. After that, it was a transitional government. I think Lars Beckman is aware that a transitional government has limited opportunities to move forward with proposals and so on. We've had a government in place for only a few months. If there's an announcement, we'll get to it. Ardalan Shekarabi, who is Minister of Civil Affairs, and Stefan Löfven have both been clear that everyone should take responsibility for having a responsible gaming industry. The industry thus had a chance to come back with proposals for self-regulation measures. Five suggestions were made. That was not enough; Ardalan Shekarabi was clear about that. For example, when it comes to why it takes a year or a month to do something, you can look in a textbook called Social Studies 1b and see the legislative process. We also have many posters here in Parliament, where we see that legislative processes take a long time. But I don't think Lars Beckman has to be worried. We are going to take a holistic approach to this issue, and Ardalan Shekarabi has made it clear that this will be part of it.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-547	Madam President, I would like Yes, it's a Social Democratic strategy. When you don't deliver, it's the Moderates' fault. It is amazing to hear the honourable Member blame this on the Moderates. It's almost... yeah, what do you say? So gambling is a problem, and the Social Democrats have a very aggressive lottery. People have been sent to the Royal Court. It has not hesitated to sell lottery tickets on credit to over-indebted people. I also note, Madam President, that this lottery is one of the main sources of income for the Social Democrats. With all due respect for the will of the government: There may thus be a link between the income of the Social Democrats from the lottery and the unwillingness to return to Parliament. Madam President, I would like In the textbook that the Uppsala Member may read sometimes – what do I know, but she seems familiar with it – it probably also says that you can be quick. There is no purpose in itself to prolong, and here it is a relatively simple change of law to be made. We note that Minister Shekarabi devotes considerable time to gaming companies. But the most aggressive gaming company in the market, which has increased its advertising drastically, is therefore the state-owned Svenska Spel. Of the increase of 13% in television advertising, Svenska Spel accounts for 70%. The government has reasonably different tools for acting against state-owned companies than debting all companies, so to speak. You can give owner directives to the company if you think the advertising is too extensive, increase the return requirement so that it cannot afford advertising in this way or whatever you want to use for tools. But it is clearly Svenska Spel who is the most aggressive company in the Swedish gaming market.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-553	Madam President, I would like It is not just the Social Democrats who are involved in lottery activities. It is common for other peoples' movements to do so, such as trade unions, the sports movement and the sobriety movement. But it should be handled with responsibility, and Stefan Löfven and Ardalan Shekarabi have been clear about that. Stefan Löfven was interviewed about this and said that a lottery should not be run. He called for representatives of the Social Democrats' lottery and announced that this is not acceptable. So the Social Democrats have not looked between the fingers of some lotteries and let others through. It hasn't been like that. This lottery has now also received completely different rules: Credit information should be made so that vulnerable people who are already in debt should not be able to buy lottery tickets. You should stop sending people to the Kronofogden, and it is no longer possible to buy on credit. Measures have therefore been taken. Everybody's gonna be good. That's what I want to say to Lars Beckman. You don't have to point out someone who's supposed to be good. The aggressive gambling advertising has increased massively in every direction. One can see with a simple googling that many gaming companies have increased it by several hundred percent. It's not just Svenska Spel. We need to take a broad approach here, and I hope the Moderates will too.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-558	Madam President, I would like All of us who have children know how food is usually done. You're tired after work. The children are even more tired, but you have to go to the store. It usually starts at theflake shelf. Of course, the kids want the sugar-shot cereal with Disney characters on it. I'm picking down the boring box of healthy cereal from the top shelf, and the kids are sulking. It continues at the dairy cold. At perfect eye level, lots of colorful packaging is crowded to attract children but with a content that is hardly any child should eat. The kids are nagging. Of course, they're already sold on the nice packaging. But I resist and take the boring file, the one with no cartoon characters on it. This is how it continues throughout the store until we finally arrive at the largest section of everyone: the candy and snack department. If you as a parent have managed to resist so far, it is usually here that many people's energy ends. The whole department is filled with useless products that are marketed against children, and you hear yourself say: Well, then take it! As long as we get home sometime. Is it really going to have to be like this? Should you as a parent be subjected to this heavy buying pressure in the case of unhealthy products with a risk of conflict with children? Rather, should not society help parents to create healthy eating habits for their children? I think so. Swedish children today receive on average 22% of their energy intake from sugar. That's more than a fifth. The WHO recommends that the intake of sugar should not exceed 5%. As many as one in five children in Sweden today suffer from overweight or obesity. Children with obesity often develop insulin resistance, blood fat disorders and liver disorders. This can lead to sequelae such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease at an early age. Unfortunately, there is no doubt that we now have to regard children's obesity and youth obesity as a new public disease. We know that sugar is bad for us and, above all, for the growing bodies and brains of small children in development. Yet advertising and marketing is allowed for unhealthy food and drink to children. The Swedish Democrats want children to be healthy and parents to be helped to make healthy choices so that we can overcome these problems. Madam President, I would like Because children and young people often have more difficulty than adults to sift among and be critical of the messages they encounter, they are particularly susceptible to advertising. It is therefore positive that the rules on advertising aimed at children are tougher. In Sweden we have good laws in this area. For example, companies are not allowed to send direct mail to someone under 16 years of age, and under our legislation, children under 12 years of age should not receive advertising before and after television programmes aimed at their age group. However, we who have children under the age of 12 know that this is not true. Advertising often occurs on certain children's channels. This means increasing buy pressure on parents and that the children, whom our legislation wants to protect, are still subject to influence – in the first place because our law only applies to television broadcasts from Sweden. It is circumvented by many channels broadcasting from platforms outside our country, where other laws apply. It is the opinion of the Swedish Democrats that the government should work to ensure that the legislation that applies in Sweden also applies in reality. Madam President, I would like Today, more and more people are choosing to buy Swedish, and that is a good thing. But still one in three pieces of meat is sold imported. Seven out of ten tomatoes come from Holland. The greenhouses are heated with fossil fuels while Swedish tomato cultivation is the world's best at minimising the emissions of climate gases. Shopping in Sweden means not only shorter transport and less environmental impact, but also better conditions for animals and increased support for Swedish entrepreneurs. Today, only 9% of the money we buy goes back to Swedish farmers. For us verigedememocrats it is obvious that we should have clear origin marking, also on menus, to strengthen consumer power and for more people to be able to choose Swedish. We think it is reasonable that the meat imported into Sweden should also comply with Swedish animal welfare laws. By informing consumers about the benefits of choosing Swedish-produced goods and by being good role models, including through our public purchases, we can improve for Swedish companies and increase the competitiveness of Swedish companies. Such a consumer policy will make a real difference.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-574	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Transport Committee's report TU5 Infrastructure issues, which is probably the most comprehensive report that the Transport Committee is dealing with during this parliamentary year. The report deals with over 300 motions. There are more than 500 requests from the general exercise period and a large number of motions on the letters that have come from the government. Two of the letters concern audits from the Swedish National Audit Office. One is about the Swedish Transport Administration's support for research and innovation, and the other concerns the new signalling system for the railways. In addition, in June last year the Government submitted a letter on the national infrastructure plan, i.e. the future planned infrastructure investments during the period 2018– 2019. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations Nos 10 and 28. To begin with the national infrastructure plan, national planning is carried out, which usually lasts for a period of 12 years. The plan includes investments totalling approximately SEK 7 00 billion. That is 100 billion more than in the previous planning period. We in the Left Party have been involved in negotiating the plan with the government, and we are pleased that the railways are getting more investment than ever and that we have also managed to get more money for the maintenance of the railways. Nevertheless, the infrastructure plan suffers from the fact that it is too little and too late. Moreover, the plan is not in line with the climate targets we have adopted in this Parliament. That is why we in the Left want the national investment plan to be demolished and revised. We want the Government and the Finnish Transport Agency to present a plan that is fully compatible with the Parliament's climate targets, in particular the goal of reducing emissions from the transport sector by at least 70 per cent by 2030. That we have full support for this reasoning can be heard if you listen to the environmental movement, our expert authority the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and, most recently, the Climate Policy Council. The Climate Policy Council has informed us in the Transport Committee of how well the government is in the process of achieving the agreed climate targets. The Climate Policy Council notes that with the decisions taken and the measures now in place, the Government will not achieve the objective of reducing emissions from the transport sector by 70%, nor the long-term climate target of net zero emissions by 2045. Madam President, I would like What I found particularly interesting in the appeal of the Climate Policy Council to us in the Transport Committee was that they raised national infrastructure investments. They noted that the investment plans relate to future forecasts of increased traffic and that the plans do not comply with our environmental and climate objectives. I read the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's documentation to the government about the future action plan to meet our challenges in the climate area. They say the same thing: we must have an infrastructure policy that stays within the climate targets. Let me take a concrete example of how the national infrastructure plan does not hold up from a climate perspective. This applies to the large motorway construction that goes under the name Tvärkontakt Södertörn. It is a large highway a few miles from here, in the southern Stockholm area. It will be 20 kilometres long and will cost a total of about SEK 10 billion. Cross-connection Södertörn will be profitable as an investment project only if traffic increases. These are exactly the forecasts on which the infrastructure project is based. We all know that we cannot spend investment money that leads to increased road traffic at a time when we must drastically reduce emissions from the road sector. I note that the appropriations and named bicycle objects contained in the national infrastructure plan do not correspond at all to the increased interest in cycling that exists around the country. There is a huge need to build national cycle paths that extend across municipal and county boundaries. The SEK 1.5 billion that I find in the field in the bicycle area is simply not enough. Madam President, I would like There are many important and worthy rail infrastructure projects in the national infrastructure plan which I very much welcome. This applies, for example, to the so-called New Ostkustbanan, where it is proposed to be a double track from Gävle up to Sundsvall and then on to Härnösand. Very good! But why are these efforts so late in planning when we know we need to build double tracks along the east coast now? This also applies to the next four track between Stockholm and Uppsala, which is an extremely busy route where we need four tracks. This too lies in the final part of the infrastructure plan. It is about the freight route in Bergslagen that needs to be built up and where the capacity needs to be increased. It is also the last in the infrastructure plan. It is about Borås – Gothenburg. It concerns the completion of Norrbotniabanan all the way to Piteå and further up to Luleå. Even there it is too little and too late. And why is the Inland Railway being ignored, that is, the railway that we have inside the country from Mora up to Gällivare? Although the inland runway receives operating grants from the State, the infrastructure plan does not propose new investment money to upgrade the runway and increase capacity. This would be of enormous benefit both to future freight transport and to rapidly growing tourism. There are great wishes to be able to take the train up to the mountains. Madam President, I would like The national infrastructure plan also mentions the proposed high-speed lines. We in the Left Party are fully behind the plans to build a network of high-speed tracks from Stockholm to Gothenburg and Malmö and on to Copenhagen. We want the tracks to be built fast and that there should be high speed tracks, that is, 320 kilometres an hour. If this is to be done well, we need to borrow to make these investments. And it is possible to build new railways quickly if you just want to and if you just borrow for the investments. I am thinking, for example, of the construction of the high-speed rail link between Madrid and Seville in southern Spain. This was done in five six years after it was clubbed in the Spanish Parliament. Six years – incredibly fast! The high-speed route between Berlin and Munich has also been a major step forward. We see that it is possible, but what many of us are waiting for is simply that the Minister for Infrastructure should extend his hand and invite us to discussions on how to complete the high-speed lines. The Minister for Infrastructure will be happy to answer that. Madam President, I would like An important part of the report is also the proposal for a new signalling system for railways. It goes under the letter abbreviation Ertms, European Rail Traffic Management System. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the work of the Government and the Finnish Transport Administration on the introduction of the new signalling system, and it is a rather horrifying reading, I must say. It is a project that will cost a total of SEK 30 billion. The plan has budgeted for about SEK 12 billion. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the project will be considerably more expensive than previously proposed. It will not have the capacity-enhancing effects that the Swedish Transport Administration has previously claimed, i.e. that we will be able to travel more by train with the new signalling system. The public benefit, which the Swedish Transport Administration has previously mentioned and estimated up to SEK 26 billion, has fallen as a stone in the latest calculations. In principle, there is no social benefit in the foreseeable future. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the entire cost of on-board equipment, such as upgrading locomotives, is passed on to the train operators, i.e. those operating on our railways. And they have to make the investments before the new signalling system is even in place and works. There are a number of experiences from Germany, Spain and Denmark that we can learn from with regard to the new signalling system. Common to all these experiences is that they terrify. In any case, it has become far more expensive and complicated, and less capacity has been gained on the railways, for example in Spain, on the parts where the new signalling system has been introduced. We in the Left Party do not want lower capacity on our railways. We do not want the high costs. We do not want a deterioration in the competitiveness of the railways. Nor do we want the large costs to be passed on to those travelling on the railways and to the rail operators operating on our railways. In the light of this, we believe that we should wait for a further roll-out of the new ERTMS Ertms system. I note that there are many parties in this House who feel exactly that way. I would like to endorse Amendment No 28, which deals precisely with this. The report contains a motion by the Center Party and the Liberals which also criticises this system. I think we should vote in favour of reservation 28. I also note that the criticism of the Moderates against the signalling system is harsh. For this reason, the Moderates should also vote in favour of reservation 28. Then we can do something better for SEK 30 billion, and we do not have to see Sweden become a guinea pig for the gigantic risk project et Ertms. Let's wait, make sure it works first and put the money on something better. Then we can invest in a new signalling system.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-605	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the amazing news we just got from Brussels. It looks like it has been voted through a mobility package for order and order in the haulage industry. I cannot explain how other parties have voted, but I can tell you that the Social Democrats have voted in favour of all the proposals. Madam President, I would like Today, therefore, we are debating the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism 5, which deals with infrastructure issues. This concerns the Government's letter on national planning for the transport infrastructure and the Swedish National Audit Office's reports on the Swedish Transport Agency's support for research and innovation and on a new signalling system for the railways. We also consider 529 claims from the general exercise time. I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 42 to be approved. Otherwise, I support the proposal of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. I also believe that the Transport Committee's announcement is to open doors already. Madam President, I would like The reports of the Swedish National Audit Office must be followed up closely. The investment made by the Finnish Transport Agency with resources for research and innovation in the field of transport must be carried out with good management, and management must be monitored. For the new ERTMS Ertms system, which is a long, costly and technically complex project, the Finnish Transport Administration should develop a strategy for reinvestment measures outside the current plan and socio-economic analyses of reinvestment projects. It is gratifying that it has been shown that the cost estimates made for the 2018 plan are of good quality. Madam President, I would like Infrastructure and functioning sustainable communications engage. This is something that we all feel in our everyday lives, whether it be potholes, delayed trains, unexploded roads, flights that cannot land at Arlanda, escalators that stand still or other. That is why infrastructure issues are so important to citizens. The day we do not notice anything is the day when all modes of transport and all infrastructure work simultaneously throughout Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is a historically large sum that we are now investing in infrastructure planning period 2018 – 2029, but it will also build Sweden strong and sustainable for us here and now and also for future generations. We will be at the forefront of innovative and effective solutions. We're going to switch to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Sweden, as Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth usually says, will be a permanent world exhibition. We will have well-functioning transport throughout the country for goods, for tourism and for women's and men's opportunities to safely get to work and for our children's opportunities to get to school and leisure activities. The infrastructure plan will also work together to build more housing, increase employment and improve the business environment. The infrastructure is the bloodstream where all modes of transport are important when all of Sweden's prerequisites for development are to be taken into account. I believe that we in the Committee on Transport and Tourism fully agree that rail maintenance needs to be increased. And that, my friends, is doing it really well – with as much as 47% from the last infrastructure plan. Similarly, road maintenance increases, including for bearing and frost securing and to increase the bearing strength class to a four and with contributions to individual roads. All of this is of the utmost importance where I live in Jämtland County. In the infrastructure plan there is also over SEK 333 billion for the development of the transport system from north to south, with trim and environmental measures for existing transport infrastructure, with a pot for measures that strengthen the competitiveness of industry, with measures to increase accessibility and increase opportunities to achieve road safety objectives. Madam President, I would like To name a few major infrastructure investments I want to start with parts of Norrbotniabanan, with the South East link between Älmhult and Blekinge, four tracks to Uppsala and double tracks on Ostkustbanan between Gävle and Kringlan. It also includes increased investments in shipping, such as fairways in Gothenburg and Luleå and between Landsort and Södertälje, and on locks like in Trollhättan. New high-speed rail lines will be launched and the urban environment agreements will have their resources. We know the importance of more research and innovation, which is why it is gratifying that resources are increasing and that the maritime sector is being identified. Madam President, I would like We need efficient, secure and sustainable infrastructure throughout the country. With SEK 100 billion more for infrastructure than in the previous plan, it will make a big difference – SEK 700 billion in total. In addition, we have the 73-point programme agreed between the Social Democrats and the Green Party together with the Center Party and the Liberals. It states, among other things, that road maintenance, with a particular focus on bearing capacity and frost securing, will be further strengthened, that a further extension of the railway in northern Sweden will take place, that the construction of Norrbotniabanan as a whole will be intensified, that new main rail lines for high-speed trains, so that Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm and cities and regions in connection with the railway's route will be connected with sustainable transport, and that the punctuality of Swedish rail will be increased. It is also stated that investments will be made in infrastructure for fossil-free charging and refuelling and in the production and distribution of biogas and that the reduction obligation as a tool will reach the target of reducing transport emissions by 70 per cent by 2030. This will be done with the good strategy developed by the government together with the transport industry, with the pilot project that we now see with electric roads where Sweden is at the forefront, with the infrastructure in charging poles that climate investment programmes have made possible, with the possibilities of digitalisation and automation, with the cycling strategy, with the transformation of industry and much more. Madam President, I would like We need all types of traffic to carry goods, to be able to work and go to school and to visit new and exciting destinations throughout Sweden. But transport needs to be smarter, more efficient and sustainable. I usually ask if all the flowers should continue to bloom, or if it is time to start clearing the flowerbed. The answer that I always get is that you should continue to let the flowers bloom. When we are going to cope with this climate change change, we will do it together – by the people, for the people and with the people – in the whole of Sweden's elongated country, from Abisko to Österlen. Madam President, I would like On October 4, 2017, I experienced something amazing. We have had railway rails with varying degrees of train traffic on the central railway in Jämtland since the latter part of the 19th century. And I would like to thank the government very much for the night train coming back. This was probably not an easy railway construction when one came up to the mountains, past Åre, Duved and Storlien and across the border to Norway with rock cutting and high railway banks. A railway bank was 24 metres. After 140 years it couldn't take it anymore, and there was a risk of race. That's where I was on a late night in 2017 to meet with Seko those who in shifts worked around the clock to lay rails. It was so exciting. Laying new rails in Jämtland is no common occurrence. I was also there to see the construction of a new bridge over Great Hell, between Sweden and Norway, between Jämtland and Tröndelag, instead of the railway bank that had now served its purpose after 140 years. Yesterday I had to be with Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth at the opening of this bridge. It is important for goods, important for the tourism industry, important for passenger transport and an important connection between Sweden and Norway. It is something special not only to make decisions but to see something built and not least to see it finished. Madam President, I would like That'll be my final words. Imagine when we see everything that is ready when this infrastructure plan with SEK 700 billion has been put into effect. Then, Madam President, it is quite certain that a great many people have already longed and have hopes for the future infrastructure plan.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-627	Madam President, I would like When we listened to SJ's CEO Crister Fritzson in the Transport Committee the other week, he was asked: What will SJ benefit from the new ERTMS Ertms system? The answer was brief: no use at all. Today we received a letter from the Train Operators, Swedish Public Transport, Hector Rail, the Transport Industry Federation and some others. I think everyone on the Transport Committee has got it. There they urge us to delay the introduction of the new and, as Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg said, very complex and comprehensive ERTMS Ertms system. It will be charged to the state budget with at least SEK 30 billion. Ertms has been sold from the beginning as a way to increase capacity on Swedish railways, so that we can transport more goods and that more people can be transported. But when the Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed the Swedish Transport Administration's work with Ertms, it can be seen that these capacity promises have fallen like a stone. What the Finnish Transport Administration has suggested is not true at all. The Swedish Transport Administration has also admitted that. My first question to Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg is: How much will the capacity be increased on Swedish railways with Ertms according to the Social Democrats' assessment? Will we have an increased capacity at all? My second question is this: now that we are seeing the experience of other countries – Germany, Spain and Denmark – where we are allowed to retake after taking over the new signalling system, and now that the industry is appealing to us to postpone this because it is too complicated and costs too much money, would it not be wise to postpone the implementation of the new signalling system?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-633	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the important questions, Jens! As you yourself say, we are also dealing with the letter from the Swedish National Audit Office here today. It says that it still makes the assessment that Ertms is much more operationally safe than ATC has been. Let me put it this way: we know that 4% of the switchboards are out now, and we know that 25% of the switchboards will be out in 2025. That said, we must invest in something. Of course, to drop everything by 30 billion and not implement it, which is the wish of the Left Party, would come with great costs. Then you must reinvest in something else, and Trafikverket has pointed out what it would cost. So the answer to your first question is: Of course we believe in higher capacity. The answer to your second question is: we need to invest here and now to get to this.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-637	Madam President, I would like Then I must ask about AnnaAnna-Caren and I have read the same review from the Swedish National Audit Office. It states that the Swedish Transport Administration has previously counted the socio-economic benefits of the so-called capacity increase about 17 billion too high. Now the Swedish National Audit Office has difficulty in pointing to some socio-economic gains in the near future. We also receive ongoing information from the supplier, that is, the company that will build this extremely complex system, that they are lagging behind and unable to deliver what they would. We see that in Germany you choose to take a move and have to postpone further implementation. In Denmark it has cost several billion SEK more than was previously thought, just as here in Sweden. In Spain, parts of the network have in principle been paralysed because the new signalling system is not working. AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg is right about one thing – I do not think that you can take 30 billion and just put it in a fantastic railway maintenance, but of course we have to deal with the poor maintenance of some switchboards already today. However, with some small investments it is possible to extend their operating time and make it work. Then we can wait and see how this new signalling system works in other countries, and then we can possibly roll it out on a larger scale. But we cannot do that now, because there are too many uncertainties. Why do the Social Democrats not listen to those who are going to drive trains on the railway? The operators – SJ and others – say that this is of no benefit to them. Then why not wait and invest the money in something else?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-641	Madam President, I would like Thanks again, Jens! Of course, we listen to everyone. But we were at the same meeting, and there we asked in committee what needs to be done. Actually, I think it was the Moderates who asked that question. The Swedish Transport Administration's answer was that we should perhaps speed up rather than take it at the pace we are now doing, and that it would be part of the solution. Then you should also know that the purpose of Ertms is not only to be able to travel within Sweden, but to keep Europe together. So the answer to your question, Mr Jens, is still: I do not think that one can just stop this and somehow believe that it has given 30 billion to other investments. If so, you may need to speed up — or at least make sure that this is done. I do not believe that stopping something that we have already begun is the way forward.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-643	Madam President, I would like This report is therefore called Infrastructure, and, as Jens Holm said in his speech, it is a very large report. It contains over 500 claims, and there are three letters to be dealt with. That is why, of course, there are many things that one would like to raise and highlight in such a debate. This week, I've been driving. I've been on a bus, and I've been on a train. I have been to Arlanda; I certainly did not fly, but many others did. I haven't been on a boat, but I'm sure it's one of the things I bought. I haven't cycled, but it's because my bike is still in the garage because they haven't swept at my house yet. What do I want to say about this? Well, Sweden is a very large country. We have a long distance and a lot of rural areas all over the country. At the same time, like large parts of the world, we are increasingly urbanised. To make the country work, it requires a functioning infrastructure that gives everyone the opportunity and opportunity to live in this country. It's about being able to easily get to work to get the puzzle together. Good infrastructure is also required for Swedish companies to be able to deliver their goods quickly and punctually throughout the country, so that they can withstand global competition. Then we need roads, cars and bicycles, as well as railways that can transport people and goods. We need flights, and we need shipping to tie Sweden together. I was going to try to say something about this. Madam President, I would like We have seen in recent years that emissions in Sweden have increased. The government has then focused on measures that have been criticised by its own experts for being ineffective. The transport sector accounts for one third of total Swedish greenhouse gas emissions, and most of it comes from road traffic. We have to change that. We must ensure that road traffic changes and becomes more sustainable, but it is not mobility that should be reduced without emissions. When I was young, I thought that in the future – and that time is about now, because that's how old I am – we would float around in large craft. That may not have been the case. Of course, we should not talk about what happens in the future, because we do not know that. During my time in the Transport Committee, I have read a lot of articles on infrastructure. I still feel very hopeful about the future. In fact, we may already be in part in the future; there is a lot of technological development, and some things are already here. We have smart cars braking by themselves, and they'll see if we're tired. There are self-driving cars, and we've been looking at electrification of roads. There are rechargeable cars, smarter fossil-free fuels and much, much more. This is a good thing, but we must also ensure that our roads work here and now. The Swedish road network consists of about 44,000 kilometres, and 75% of them are individual roads. We talked about this in the Transport Committee today, among other things. The individual roads are of enormous importance for rural areas to live, and they are also an important prerequisite for our raw materials transport. There have been alarming reports of the state of our road network as a whole, and we need a plan for the individual roads. We also need increased investment in road maintenance. We need charging poles for all rechargeable cars that are now rolling out on the Swedish market, and then we need to expand the charging infrastructure. In the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats promised that trains would go on time. There are many of us who commute either regionally or further away, and we wonder what has happened to these electoral promises. Last summer there was chaos on the trains – 40% of the long-distance trains were delayed. Yes, I know there were fires around Sweden, but the chaos started earlier in the early summer. We read about passengers who were stuck at Arlanda Express for hours, and at some point it took ten hours between Uppsala and Stockholm. Now this winter, quite recently, there was chaos again; we all remember that. The Swedish Transport Administration's own statistics are clear: In total, the trains were 62 000 hours late last year. That's a frighteningly high figure. Such delays have only taken place once in the 21st century, and this is an unacceptable development. It is a good thing that there is now broad political agreement that we must not falter on railway maintenance in the future, while at the same time we need investment in new tracks. It also requires a government that tackles the organisational problems of the railways so that trains can go on time. It is about clearer control of the Swedish Transport Administration and better long-term planning of maintenance operations. Operators using old trains that run on the plant or cause delays must bear this cost to a greater extent. We travellers must also be able to rely on the information we receive at stops and delays in a much better way than we can do today. In the 2014 election movement, the Social Democrats promised that the trains would go on time. The Social Democrats have now been responsible for the railways for almost five years, and the result is increased delays and less punctuality. This is simply unacceptable and a serious failure on the part of the Social Democrats. Sweden needs a government that does not blame itself but takes responsibility and acts in order for the trains to go on time. Madam President, I would like It can be said that if we get the rail network and the road network around the country in order, we can also get more shipping going, which would lead, overall, to increased capacity and to a better optimisation of the various modes of transport. But then, as I said, we need a better and more accessible road network and rail network for our ports. Above all, it concerns access to and from our ports. For a small, export-dependent country like Sweden, shipping is directly crucial for us to be able to import and export raw materials and goods on the world market. The Moderates are in favour of increasing climate governance linked to fairway charges in order to increase the rate of change in the shipping industry and want to review this. It would also be a way to reward those who choose to invest in more environmentally friendly ships. I would also like to say something about aviation. I know that both aviation and shipping have their own reports, but, as I myself and others have already said here today, I do not think that the modes of transport can be set against each other. Sweden's large distance makes us completely dependent on a working flight. Air travel connects Sweden, creates jobs and increases opportunities to live and live in the whole country. At the same time, we need to do more to reduce the climate impact of aviation. The Moderates have been pushing for a long time on the issue of the requirement to include biofuels in aviation fuel in order to make aviation greener. Madam President, I would like I would also have to say something in this speech that I regret that this parliamentary year is the first time we will be able to deal with the national plan. This is a matter that we know was planned to come before the bill freeze last year. However, it came only after that, which had the consequence that the previous Parliament did not have time to deal with the matter. There are many reasons why this is not good. Among other things, it is a question of democracy, which is particularly sad to note this during a year of jubilee. I have highlighted some challenges throughout the transport sector. This is not a budget debate, but I think we agree that this concerns big money. Then it is crucial that the money is used effectively, but unfortunately we have seen in various reports in recent years that this is not always the case. The Moderates have long demanded – and still feel that it is needed – better processes for these investments. Our proposal is to set up a Transport Policy Council to review and evaluate infrastructure policy. This is not a new proposal, but we have been running it for many years. The guiding principle must be to give greater priority to those projects which are most economically viable; in any case, we must be able to know that they are. Today there is poor control and transparency, and then an independent Council could contribute to a more efficient use of our tax funds. Madam President, I would like Of course, we are in favour of all our reservations and our particular opinion, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 1. Finally, I would like to say that it is serious now. We need to increase capacity. We need to do more to shift towards more sustainable transport. We need to increase accessibility and improve punctuality. We must remove the bottlenecks and reduce the vulnerability of all modes of transport.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-664	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Mrs Roswall for her speech. I agree with a lot of what she said about the opportunities and challenges we have. If there is anything we know we have, it is a huge maintenance debt to the railways. It has been around for a long time, and it has been difficult. I am thinking of what you, Mrs Roswall, said in your speech that punctuality and other things may have to do with the fact that we have not invested enough in the railways. We're really doing that now, aren't we? In this plan, we increase resources by 47% from the previous infrastructure plan. After reading a little about how the Moderates have expressed themselves about the plan, my question will be to Jessika Roswall: Does Jessika Roswall share our view that these railway maintenance efforts are needed after years of standing back?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-667	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I hear an undertone on the question from AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg. After decades of underinvestment in railway maintenance, the alliance government took over in 2006 – that's right. During the eight years of the alliance government, funding for railway maintenance was doubled. This has been said a number of times in this House in these debates. There is, of course, as much money in our two budgets – or our two appropriations – for this, so we do not really need to have this discussion over and over again. Rather, the question goes back. You've been in charge of the railroad for almost five years. In fact, you must take responsibility for your policy. I heard many fine words from Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg in the speaker's chair, but as I said in my speech, the railways have become worse – punctuality is worse. As far as aviation is concerned, you have introduced a flight tax, but you have not ensured that emissions are reduced. The alliance parties have pushed for increased use of biofuels in aviation. The other day there were also reports of deficiencies in maintenance. My question back is: when will the Social Democrats start to take responsibility for infrastructure policy?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-675	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Responsibility, I think, shows us every day in good strategy and bicycle strategy and in rail maintenance. We have also spent more money on roads and railways each year in the period before the end of the previous plan, because the plan was not enough. If I remember correctly, the Moderates promised, before the elections, an investment of 20 billion in Eastern connections, and you have always been very clear about this. I have never understood what it is that we should not be doing in this plan of 700 billion. What are we going to remove? My constant concern was that the Moderates wanted in this once again to give priority to the railways in favour of roads. Were these 20 billion on top of everything? Or were they part of the plan that you promised before the elections to the City of Stockholm, I think, that jointly said no to it?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-679	Madam President, I would like I must admit that I do not know the details of billions. It's about a lot of money and a long perspective; it's about 2018 – 2029. We have the same number of billions. I hear you say 700 billion. I have read about 622 and 628 billion respectively, but overall it is the same amount of money. We match every penny. I'm afraid I can't answer all the details. However, as I said in my speech – although I was talking about several modes of transport there – we must, of course, ensure that we overcome the shortcomings of the railways. I fully agree with that.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-682	Madam President, I would like Jessika Roswall will have to correct me if I heard wrong, but I thought I heard Roswall say that climate targets need to be given greater importance in infrastructure planning. There was sweet music in my ears, because if we are to achieve our climate goals, it is very important that these 700 billion go in the right direction. When the Climate Policy Council, as one might say, monitors climate policy in Sweden, had its appeal for us in the Transport Committee last week, they pointed out that one very important measure that we should take is to start from our climate goals when we have infrastructure planning and planning accordingly. We cannot have infrastructure planning based on forecasts of increased road traffic. This is exactly the same as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency said in the document to the government about a future climate plan that came recently. My question to Roswall is therefore whether the Moderates are prepared to work for us to have an infrastructure planning based entirely on our climate goals. In this context, I would also like to ask whether the Moderates think it is a good idea to spend about SEK 10 billion on building a completely new motorway here in the Stockholm area – Cross-connection Södertörn – which will lead to increased traffic and increased emissions. At the same time, we know that the needs are great, for example in sparsely populated areas, with maintenance of small roads, maintenance of the railways and so on. Finally, Madam President, why do the Moderates not want to pause the large, unsafe ERTMS Ertms system? You can vote for reservation 28 and we'll do it.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-686	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the good questions, Jens Holm! That was quite correct: we have to change all modes of transport so that they become more sustainable. After all, we were at the same committee meeting, and I asked a question about cars in the future. I think we had a somewhat one-sided view of this; I think we need to be able to see a future with cars that are fossil-free. I would like to ask a question back on this: is Jens Holm pleased to have a government that takes environmental measures that its own expert authorities consider to have no effect? Seven out of eight measures are not considered effective. We must have measures here and now that actually have an effect. We cannot afford symbolic politics. I would like to ask that back. But Jens Holm had more questions for me. It was about Ertms. The Moderates have also read the Swedish National Audit Office's report, and there is a lot of criticism to make, just as Jens Holm said in his speech. We were also at the same committee meeting and heard the Swedish Transport Administration's experts tell us about the benefits and the need to pause it – but also the risks. We are very critical, once again, that we have projects that we cannot see are socially beneficial. On the other hand, I feel at this point – here I agree with what Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg said – that we cannot stop this either without knowing the outcome of it. As an opposition politician, however, I do not intend to take all that responsibility. I assume that Jens Holm will also put the question to Minister Eneroth.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-691	Madam President, I would like On the question of whether we in the Left Party are satisfied with the government's climate policy, the answer is no. That's why we're pushing. We are in opposition and will act as a blowtorch to achieve all our environmental and climate goals. It is a pity that the Moderates are unable to vote for reservation 28, which would mean that we pause Ertms and await the experience of other countries. I didn't think the answer from Roswall to my question about climate targets should govern infrastructure planning was clear, but here she gets another chance. It is a question of assuming, for example, that we need to reduce our emissions from the road sector by 70% by 2030 and not to build future infrastructure investments on forecasts of increased road traffic. The objective, therefore, of reducing emissions, is what we are starting from. Is that something that the Moderates will also work for?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-694	Madam President, I would like I thought I was clear in my speech. We need transport in this country. We are an elongated country and need to make sure that all modes of transport work. But we must also ensure that emissions are reduced, especially in the transport sector, because it accounts for a very large proportion of emissions. It is really obvious; then our two parties probably have a little different ways of getting to grips with it. I believe, above all, that government policy does not produce the effects that are intended but has the wrong effect. It is symbolic policy that we cannot afford.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-696	Madam President, I would like In this report we have no less than 13 reservations. We are in favour of all of these, but for time winning, I am only in favour of reservation Nos 16 and 23. In recent decades we have seen developments where jobs are concentrated in the metropolitan regions and where more people are forced to commute long distances to their work or studies. We also see how train travel has increased sharply and more than doubled in 25 years. If you travel in commuting time, there is a risk that you will get a standing position, even though there are more trains than ever. The fact that trains are running and that they are keeping time is a central issue for us Swedish democrats, and it is also a weighty factor when we have chosen to oppose the expansion of high-speed rail. We fully share the view that four tracks are needed Stockholm-Malmö and Stockholm-Gothenburg, and it is of course not that we are negative in itself to trains travelling at 320 kilometres per hour. Instead, the crux of the matter is the additional cost associated with high-speed railways. There are various estimates of the additional cost of high-speed rail compared to a railway built with conventional technology, with ballasted tracks, but somewhere between 60 and 90 billion is estimated to reduce the cost if we build new tracks for high-speed trains at 250 kilometres per hour compared to high-speed trains at 320 kilometres per hour. The time gain of 200 miles an hour is not very great. With the alternative 320 kilometres an hour you will be able to travel the Stockholm – Gothenburg section in about two hours, a distance that today takes about three hours. Instead, if the high - speed train is 250 kilometers per hour, the time would be about two hours and 16 minutes. So you win a quarter of an hour. It's pretty expensive minutes. The Stockholm – Malmö stretch takes four hours and 29 minutes today. With the 320 option you arrive in two hours and 28 minutes, with the second option in two hours and 47 minutes, a difference of 19 minutes. Then let us remember that the Swedish Transport Administration has already decided that large parts of the route will be built for 250 kilometres per hour instead of 320 kilometres per hour. This is by far the worst proposal, as no operator will consider it profitable to buy in trains for 320 kilometres per hour because they are considerably more expensive in purchases. But, Madam President, I still think the biggest mistake is that you miss how many more stretches you can rebuild and improve for the 60-90 billion you get over if you invest in rail for 250 kilometres an hour. We have many single-track routes today where the capacity is low and the sensitivity to interference is high. In Skåne alone there is a need for a double track extension of 20 – 25 km of the railway network. The east coast track along the population-tight coast of Norrland is a disaster and needs a new construction with double tracks on the entire stretch Gävle – Härnösand. This project is estimated to cost between 23 and 41 billion, but it would reduce travel time between Stockholm and Umeå from about six and a half hours to three and a half. Between Stockholm and Sundsvall the journey time would be shortened to about two hours against the four of the day. Here, folks, let's talk about well-used money! In addition, it is very heavy industry along the Norrland coast, and the possibility of getting traffic from truck to train would be significantly strengthened, which would then relieve the E4. There are many routes to highlight, but it would take a lot of time to go through the whole of Sweden's need for an expanded railway. However, we can see, Madam President, that it is clear that a high-speed railway is in danger of becoming a cuckoo who pushes other important investments out of the nest. But the railways are not only in need of investment, they are also in dire need of rehabilitation and reinforced maintenance. In the wake of an expensive immigration policy, the maintenance of the railways has been held back. One third of the switchboards are end-of-life, large parts of the overhead line network are worn and would have been replaced 15 to 20 years ago. Aged sleepers, worn gears, worn track and poor track position are some faults that generate speed reductions and disturbances. The list can be made long-- very long. That is why we Swedish democrats are behind the massive increase in the budget that is now being set aside to renovate the existing railways and increase their reliability. But who's gonna replace the overhead contact line? Who's going to drive the tracker? Who's going to replace the broken heavy-duty control contact? While we can see a sharp increase in administration at Trafikverket, we see that fewer and fewer people are working in the tracks, which is also strengthened by Trafikanalys numbers. And a lot of retirements are waiting. According to the Seko trade union, every third railway worker will retire within a ten-year period. It is estimated that 700 to 1 800 railway technicians will be missing for the next five years. At the same time, training places are empty. We need to make it more attractive to work in the railway industry. I hope that we in the Committee on Transport can organise a seminar as soon as possible to focus on the problem. Much of the maintenance takes place at uncomfortable times. It is common to turn off tracks on weekends or on nights. It is no wonder; traffic is lower, and the overall disturbance is of course much smaller. But these working hours usually do not attract today's young people. Now they are often on call and on standby every four weeks. It was far less common in the past. When I was working, I used to be on standby every six weeks. Further back, it was eight. It is not always fun to be ringed in the middle of the night because a gear has been picked up or because there is a storm and trees have fallen over the contact line. But these everyday heroes are needed to keep the function up on our railroad. Possibly, a better salary situation can attract more people to the industry. We must turn all the stones around in order to attract more staff to the railway sector. There is also much talk of transferring more traffic from truck to rail. The railway has difficulty competing with the truck for several reasons. Trust in rail transport is not the best. Up to 80 per cent of the transports in Sweden are on short distances, up to 100 kilometres. Then the railway is not optimal. For a company that applies just-in-time, it does not hold up constant delays for a goods promised to a customer for a certain period of time. And if a factory stands still, it leads to high costs and loss of production. In order for us to increase the competitiveness of the railways, it is A and O that you can be sure to get your goods on time. Not only does maintenance play an important role here. Even the capacity is recording. With more double tracks, both punctuality and capacity increase, and disturbance sensitivity decreases. The cost of Ertms also plays a role. Small operators cannot afford to equip their locomotives. Here the Swedish Democrats want the state to go in and take the costs for the train operators. Disrupting small operators also reduces competition. For the remaining operators, the final note for Ertms will end up with the customer, who will receive an even higher cost for their rail transport. Rail transport already finds it difficult to stand up to competition from lorry goods. As the chairman of the committee mentioned earlier, we have also received a letter today from several train operators. We also need to speed up work to enable longer and faster freight trains. With longer trains you can get down costs. And with faster freight trains you can reduce the differences in speed. It frees up capacity, but it also provides more efficient transport. This is not suitable for all goods. But some of the goods had won at increased speed. Here too, the Swedish Democrats have exercised to speed up the process. As regards Ertms, I would also like to express our concerns about the risks that the system is not sufficiently developed and tested for further implementation according to plan. In addition, there is a risk that train operators will not be able to install the on-board data. Therefore, we want to pause the introduction for one to two years, in order to minimise the risks in the project. Given that about one third of the switchboards can be considered more or less end-of-life, we believe, with the support of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, that the introduction as a whole is necessary. To do nothing will increase the proportion of signal and switchgear errors. Switching to ATC is also not economically viable, from a longer perspective. Madam President, I would like We are giving the railway sector more money than ever before to strengthen maintenance and increase investment. At the same time, the need for action is unlikely to have been greater in modern times. It is therefore important that the funds allocated are used in the most effective way. We therefore call on those parties who are in favour of a high-speed railway to reconsider. Most of the journeys carried out by rail are of a regional or local nature. Are we going to build a high-speed rail network for the few percent that will use it, or are we going to push for a well-functioning and expanded rail network for all rail passengers? We Swedish democrats look to the whole and that the money for the railways will benefit the vast majority of everyday commuters. They should not go to large-scale high-speed ventures that are far fewer in the distant future.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-722	Madam President, I would like Patrik Jönsson will be happy to correct me if I heard wrong. But I heard clearly that Patrik Jönsson said that it is Sweden's immigration policy that has led to less rail maintenance.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-724	We can take the infrastructure plan as an example. For 2018 – 2029 it is a total of approximately SEK 700 billion in future investments. Do the Swedish Democrats mean that it is the immigrants' fault that it is not high enough? Would there have been more money without immigration?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-725	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Jens Holm! It was extremely unseriously set. You heard me very well. I spoke about the cost of immigration policy. You know that we spend well over 100 billion annually funding this migration policy. It is money that could of course be spent on other things. You can choose to say that we should be humane and receive a lot of people from other countries. You could say that we should be humane and help people there. But in any case, it costs money. Of course, you can choose to say: Let it cost money! But you should also be honest with your constituents and say that we will then have less welfare and less money for the railway sector. Here is an example. You, who have ruled with the left-wing block and supported them over the past few decades, have been involved in the dismantling of the railway. You've been involved. You've caused us to have delays. You've been involved, and you've caused us to have a worn-out railway infrastructure.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-728	Madam President, I would like I note that Patrik Jönsson cannot give a single concrete example of how increased immigration has led to worse rail maintenance. I asked, for example, how immigration has affected the infrastructure plan. It is the Swedish Democrats who, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, have voted in favour of a budget that leads to the divisions in Sweden becoming bigger, the rich get more, those who already have it crept get even worse and the gap between city and country increases. The Swedish Democrats do not want our banks to pay taxes, even though they make profits of over SEK 100 billion. You don't want the absolute richest to pay wealth tax. You don't want a plane tax. You do not want what is dirty to help us get money for environmental work and perhaps even a little better railway maintenance. Is it not the Swedish Democrats who are not credible here? You keep sending the bill to the immigrants and claiming that it is their fault when you have a policy that increases the gap and only makes the rich better off. With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, it is ordinary people who have to pay the big bill.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-731	Madam President, I would like It is Jens Holm and the Left Party that have sent the bill to Swedish taxpayers. People who work hard to make money pay high taxes and expect a dignified welfare. They expect trains to go on time. They expect roads that work without queues forming. And they expect security in society. What have we got thanks to the Left Party? We have seen a sharp increase in crime and trains that are constantly late. We have had extremely poor access to care. We have had problems getting into retirement homes, because there are too few places. That is what the voters who voted for the Left Party have got. If they're happy with it, it'll have to stand for them. But I can see that what Jens Holm says is nothing but flosskeler.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-734	Madam President, I would like As the representative of the Center Party in this debate, I would like to highlight a basic approach. It is that without a well-functioning transport infrastructure throughout the country, regardless of the mode of transport, there are no conditions for creating jobs so that people can live wherever they want, so that they can easily travel between housing and work, or for that matter for people to be able to take part in culture or to be in social contexts. The transport law is five, I would like to take this opportunity to say, namely the traditional ones such as shipping, aviation, road and rail, but also the IT infrastructure. Without functioning IT or data communication, traditional ones do not function optimally and efficiently. I usually say for fun that a road, bridge or railway in no way is an end in itself. It doesn't do any good where it is. But it is a prerequisite, the bloodstream itself, for a functioning society. I believe that this approach must be taken along with us. For this reason, Sweden must be built together through better functioning roads, railways, aviation, shipping and IT so that more strong labour market regions are created. A labour market region is the geography through which people have a reach for daily travel to and from a job and a home. It is where people in cities, communities and villages are connected. This is done through increased mobility. As a representative of the Center Party, Madam President, I believe that we are facing a future where we are going to move even more and where we are going to move more goods and transport things. But we need to do it smarter and more efficiently for climate reasons as well as for social and economic reasons. Let us take industry and trade as an example. They are the basis of our prosperity in a small and sparsely populated country on the outskirts of Europe. For industry, the transport infrastructure itself is crucial. Without it, industry, trade, jobs and the basis for our prosperity stop. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party and the Liberals, together with the government, have reached a substantive political agreement on 73 points. Some of these are about building better than so far. It is about improving the maintenance of the transport infrastructure in Sweden. Through the January agreement, the Center Party has reached a deal which means that much, but not everything, of the policy we pursue for climate-smart and efficient transport of both people and goods throughout the country is now in a position to be put into practice. That's good. I will stand by and defend this position in this House. This means that in this particular report, which is both comprehensive and thick, the Center Party reserves its rights in favour of what we have not made up in the January agreement. However, on points where we see the conditions for a good impact on the policy of the Center Party, such as the view on transport policy, we are content to express the same views in the report in the form of a separate opinion. We do so, Madam President, because the classic centre-party view is that the sparse state-owned individual road networks should also be upgraded. We are also doing this to extend the fibre, which is an absolute prerequisite for people to live and live throughout the country, to cover virtually all households and all places where people live in this country. These and other positions are now translated into concrete policies within the framework of the January Agreement. Madam President, I would like Climate change as a result of increased emissions of carbon dioxide and other climate-affected gases is probably the challenge that overshadows everything else when we talk about transport policy, as well as other policy areas. This challenge requires, I would argue, that it is we who sit here and now in Parliament and are elected for the period 2018– 2022– not our children or grandchildren– who must act, including in the field of transport policy. We have set ourselves a target, set by this House, for emissions from the transport sector to be reduced by 70% by 2030. They should not be reduced by 70% from today, but compared to what we released in 2010. In order to reduce the climate impact but at the same time maintain mobility, the bloodstream, in order for the whole country to be inhabited and used, transport needs to be more efficient. It is about biofuels and electrification as energy, but also very much about transport efficiency in the form of longer and heavier vehicles, regardless of the basis on which they go, and more smartness in logistics. For me as a centre party, the targets for reducing emissions in the transport sector that we have laid down through legislation are ambitious but also reasonable. They also offer an opportunity. I see them as an opportunity for us as a nation to take the lead in the global transition that is taking place. Swedish environmental technology, whether it be vehicle manufacturing, energy production or transport efficiency, is and can be an export success that prepares the way for the export of goods and services and also provides the conditions for production here in our country, as an export to other parts of the country. The Center Party welcomes the fact that the issue of fossil-free transport is a major part of the January agreement. It states that Sweden will take the lead in climate and environmental issues and become a fossil-free welfare nation. Fossil-free charging and refuelling shall be possible by, inter alia, expanding the infrastructure for it. Madam President, I would like One theme and perspective that has not yet been discussed is equality between women and men. In many contexts, we are talking about the importance of the policy we are legislating on being equal. How does equality work in transport policy? As a centre party, I think it is a matter of course that the system that we are building should be equal to the different needs of both women and men. Well-functioning transport is a fundamental part of people's everyday lives. Equal transport is about giving women and men equal opportunities in, for example, work and education commuting and that they have the same conditions to make life go together around work, education and family life. However, we know that women and men travel and reason in different ways. Men use to disrupt re extent car, while women make a larger share of their trips on foot, by bicycle or by public transport. Therefore, reliable, secure and attractive public transport and safe environments around pedestrian, bicycle and exchange routes are not only a traffic issue but also a gender equality issue. This can also be seen from an efficiency perspective. If we are to use the full potential of being over 10 million people in this country, all people, both women and men, must be given the opportunity, i.e. reach, to participate. Increases regional public transport, such as buses, trains and taxis, and we have sensible cycling and walking paths and good and safe exchange places, we promote sustainable regional expansion and thus access to more and more attractive workplaces. This will be the most beneficial thing for women. They currently have less labour market regions than men do. It may not be possible to claim that transport policy is gender equality policy. But in error it will prevent an equal society. Madam President, I would like We have often had maintenance of railways up to debate here. As a country, we have one of Europe's largest rail networks. It is a very large system in relation to our population. This means that only to maintain the system requires a great deal of work and resources. After quite a few years in Parliament's Transport Committee, I have a feeling of concern. It may not always be enough to spend more money on maintenance. The question is how we use the money we spend to maintain the system. Madam President, I have heard a member of the Finnish Transport Administration say that the greatest risk is that the money will burn up in an inflation fire. For there is a lack of flesh and blood for people to do the work. And if there are no people, a market, whether it is a monopoly or a free market, works in such a way that the price rises. We can see that it is too common around the country that people are freezing or waiting for a delayed train. Here, of course, the business community suffers from the same problems, but the goods are not as loud as frozen people in Mälardalen waiting for an SL train. But there will be exactly the same consequence of that. These are cost increases, and they weaken our competitiveness. A competitive Sweden needs a railway that can be trusted. For the Center Party, maintaining the railway infrastructure is a high priority. The shortcomings that exist in the Swedish rail network must be addressed. Trains are supposed to work and go on time. It's a matter of trust. Another thing that we have not yet highlighted here is the need for new main roads to run trains at all. A well-developed infrastructure connects Sweden and creates conditions for more jobs and more companies throughout the country. The Centre Party is therefore in favour of strengthening the Swedish rail system in the form of new main roads. An investment in new main lines must include linking the new tracks and their stations with and strengthening the capacity of the existing rail system. Accessibility in the form of new capacity and new main roads must benefit the entire Swedish rail system. I have said this before, and I repeat: a functioning transport infrastructure is the basic prerequisite for a living country and a living countryside. For the Center Party, the individual roads, which are often maintained by people in voluntary associations, are a very important part of this. The individual roads with state subsidies allow over 1 million people to go to and from work every day and carry out their duties. Almost 8 000 km of the Swedish road network consists of privately held roads that with a state grant are kept in order and are open to the rest of us. It is as large as the state road network and almost twice as large as the municipal network. Individual roads are also very important from the point of view of freight transport. On very many of the individual roads start or finish goods, raw materials and other things their transport. It has been mentioned in the past how large that proportion is. The Center Party is, and will continue to be, a major driving force for the state to continue to play a very important economic role in maintaining a good standard on the individual road network. It's about bearing capacity, availability and maintenance. Finally, Madam President, this report also deals with a very large number of individual motions with excellent proposals for increased state involvement in various road projects across the country. At least one of these movements is that we should provide Öland with a new fixed link with the rest of the world in the form of a bridge. All these motions are rejected today, even though they are both well worded and urgent. They are rejected because we apply a decision-making system where it is the government, not the parliament, that makes decisions on individual projects – even on such important things as how to get a more efficient, redundant and secure connection between Öland and the mainland. But it is the order of Swedish politics that it is the government and not the Riksdag that makes that decision. Of course, the Center Party supports the reservations and specific opinions that we have in this report, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 3 and 7.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-765	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Anders Åkesson for a fine speech, and I think it was particularly good that he raised the gender equality objective in transport policy. In my hand, I have a motion from Anders Åkesson, the Center Party, together with the Liberals. It is about the new ERTMS Ertms system, and I can see that I, Åkesson and the Liberals are doing about the same critical analysis of the new signalling system. In the exercise, Åkesson writes, for example, as Ertms: Then we are told that the promises of increased capacity have come to nothing, we are looking at other countries, such as Germany, and not least that the costs are almost ten times as high as the socio-economic benefits. The whole exercise ends in the fact that the Center Party is proposing that the investment in the Ertms Iron Road Signal System be paused and that it frees up in the order of SEK 15 – 19 billion that the Center Party instead wants to invest in other purposes. It's a great exercise, and my only question to Anders Åkesson is: Why don't you vote for your own motion or possibly on reservation 28, which would actually send a clear signal to the government to pause this Titanic project and instead spend the money on something more sensible?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-770	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Jens Holm for his assessment of my speech and for raising gender equality in particular. I think it is important that we, who usually call ourselves feminists, also do this when it comes to transport policy, because that is actually what it is all about. With regard to the ERTMS Ertms system, it is quite correctly understood that the Center Party and the Liberals expressed themselves in a joint motion, which is extremely critical in the light of the facts we have obtained from the National Auditor's report. I remember, Madam President, that in the past the Transport Committee visited one of the signal system providers, almost in prehistoric times, and how this supplier promised enormous capacity gains only we switched signal systems. We asked and confirmed that there were huge capacity gains to a relatively low sum. I would like to believe, Madam President and Jens Holm, that it is on that ambition that this project has started. However, the Swedish National Audit Office's almost astoundingly critical report shows that this does not deliver capacity and is also more expensive than we thought, which is awkward. For that reason, we wrote the motion. While we wrote the motion and while we dealt with it in the Parliamentary Transport Committee, the Center Party, together with the Liberals, concluded a January agreement with the government. Within the framework of this agreement, I am fully confident that we will resolve this issue as well. That is why, Madam President and Jens Holm, the Center Party has chosen to include its motion in a separate opinion.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-775	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer, and I have full respect for the fact that politics can be pursued in slightly different ways and that the conditions change after elections and government formation. I took the time to read again the so-called January agreement, also called the 73-point programme, and I was just looking for something to pause Ertms, signalling systems, measures, spend the money on railway maintenance, SEK 15 billion for better purposes, etc. However, I did not bring any of it here in the 73-point agreement. Then I have to ask Anders Åkesson : How is it that you have made such a detailed agreement with the government but that there is nothing there about the new signal system? Yet Anders Åkesson can stand here in the Swedish parliament and say that you will solve this together with the government. Please tell me how!
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-778	Madam President, I would like Both me and Jens Holm, who represent the Left Party, have over time worked together with the government. I am getting that experience right now, Madam President. It is quite right that the 73-point programme, or the January agreement, is comprehensive. Some points also concern functionality, order and the ability to supply and trust in the Swedish rail system and that it will be extremely much better. I feel within the framework of those words, without specifying Ertms in detail as one of very many parts, full assurance that we will reach agreement on how to deal with this challenge – because that is a challenge, Madam President. With regard to the management of Ertms, we have a common political responsibility. We were at the time a united committee that sang well the system, because we heard how relatively cheap it was and what capacity we would gain. Everyone went on this letter combination. Everyone has part of the responsibility. Meanwhile, the Swedish Transport Administration and we have lost a lot of time in running the ATC system we have today. It is claimed that spare parts cannot be purchased and so on. It's put us in a pretty tricky situation. We have failed to maintain what we have, because we will replace it with something that we believed very much in but that turns out not to deliver. That is the situation we now have to deal with, Madam President. But yes, I am fully confident that we will also be dealing with the ERTMS problem. The starting values of the Centre Party and Liberals in this discussion, which I assume the representatives of the Liberals themselves will present, are precisely the motion we wrote in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report and the government's response to it in the Parliamentary Transport Committee around the turn of the year.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-785	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to talk about one of my favourite subjects, infrastructure. Infrastructure is a system in which roads, railways, shipping and air transport reinforce each other. The interaction between the different modes of transport in the form of transhipment points for road, maritime and rail transport should be encouraged, as this allows us to use the best technology for the individual transport at all times. In the same way, we must always strive to combine roads, railways and aircraft so that we can build sustainable transport systems where the most appropriate type of traffic can be used in individual passenger transport. In addition to the fact that we need to work together between traffic laws within the country, it is important that we constantly improve our communications between us and our neighbours. Internationally, major changes are taking place. China has initiated a new silk road. This means that they are investing in new railways and roads that span the entire European continent. These investments will change trade patterns and eventually make China the world's largest economy. Europe is actively working to build new transport routes for both passenger and freight traffic. Estonia, for example, is currently planning a tunnel linking Tallinn and Helsinki. In Denmark, all appeals concerning the Fehmarn Belt link are complete and will link the Copenhagen region with Hamburg and northern Germany. Madam President, I would like If we in Sweden do not change the way we work with infrastructure, we will lag behind the rest of Europe. If we want to safeguard the future economy, we must improve the infrastructure throughout the Nordic triangle: Stockholm– Oslo– Copenhagen. New roads and tracks that are capable of both freight and passenger traffic will be necessary in order for us on the Scandinavian Peninsula to have better access to the new markets that are currently being opened up via modern and better infrastructure in Europe and Asia. When our ancestors planned the railways in Sweden and Norway there were about 4.8 million people living in Sweden and about 2 million in Norway. That's 1890 numbers, if anyone wants to review it. We established a railway based on a population requirement of just under 7 million people. Today there are about 15.5 million people living in Sweden and Norway. However, we have not extended the railway to the same extent, but are still going on the same old main roads that our ancestors decided on. It goes without saying to us in the Christian Democrats that this does not last in the long run. We need to upgrade the railways while increasing track capacity so that we can increase passenger and freight traffic. Madam President, I would like In this context, it is interesting to note that our sister party in Norway, KRF, has received the following three positions in the new Norwegian Government's declaration of government: Take the initiative for a Scandinavian railway study in collaboration with Sweden and Denmark. 中 Halve emissions from transport before 2030. 中 Launch a high-speed investigation to study which routes may be suitable for this purpose. They mean within the Nordic triangle. We should of course be in favour of a joint effort to improve the infrastructure in the Nordic region. If we can work together to improve our communications while reducing our environmental impact, it is a good development that will benefit us all. Madam President, I would like In addition to the large and more comprehensive efforts, we must work to ensure that the whole country lives. It is good that some highlight the importance of bicycles for a better functioning traffic system within our big cities and larger urban areas. But even if the bike is a good traffic for many of our urban residents, the bike will not solve our transport problems in rural areas. Today's transport policy contains clear paradoxes where those who live in the country and depend on cars are the ones who are forced to pay for those who live in the cities and can choose between car, bicycle and public transport. This type of imbalance cannot continue over time when society must treat all citizens equally. We need to improve roads throughout the country. Although this means that we have to work on some routes with bompeng in order to afford the necessary improvements, it is a funding that we in KD have accepted during the construction of the Öresund Bridge, for example. The current situation where individual roads receive too little support from both the municipality and the state is not okay. It is also not okay that good projects with great social benefits, such as the Eastern Link in Stockholm, are blocked because you cannot get a decision on co-financing. This type of problem can be handled via bompeng that lifts off the cost of larger projects. This enables the Swedish Transport Administration to increase support for individual roads or other strategically important infrastructure measures. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, traffic accounts for a large part of Sweden's CO2 emissions. We have the biggest problems in road transport. In addition to CO2 emissions, we also have problems with particulate matter and noise levels, especially in urban traffic. This means that we must work actively to reduce the burden of traffic on the environment. In our larger cities, some of this can be managed by improving public transport, by facilitating cycling and car sharing, and by various forms of car pools. But in large parts of the country, we will continue to depend on cars to be able to live in a good way. Conversion of fuel mix, electrification of roads and vehicles and new traffic taxation are methods that need to be put in place if we are to change the impact of traffic on the environment while at the same time creating greater justice between city and country. Madam President, I would like The Finnish Transport Agency is an authority that needs clearer control. Our experience is that from time to time it makes decisions that hamper development rather than help to facilitate it. In my hometown Uddevalla, the municipality together with the region and Trafikverket have made investments on road 44. But now that the municipality wants to establish new residential areas to deal with the extreme housing shortage that exists in the municipality, it is the Finnish Transport Agency that argues in its referrals to deny housing as this settlement will lead to the use of the roads that we have just renovated. I thought my stupidity was that we were actually building roads and railways to use them. I also thought that Trafikverket's task was to contribute to community development and not to inhibit it. Here the government must review regulatory letters and make it clear that the Swedish Transport Administration has a social development mission. Madam President, I would like In this context, I would also like to raise the issue of Ertms. The Finnish Transport Agency claims that the digitisation of the railway signalling system is necessary. However, the train operators and the Swedish National Audit Office criticise the way this is carried out. The criticism is so harsh that, among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office questions the full benefits of the investment. Unfortunately, it has become increasingly apparent to us in KD that this project is not working properly. The costs of developing the Swedish model of Ertms have become more expensive than expected. The project currently includes both a new traffic management system and an infrastructure investment in the form of upgrading gears. We in KD do not really have a problem with replacing gears that have to be replaced. However, the introduction of the traffic management system itself should be postponed. If the project is implemented according to the current plan, there is an extremely high risk that it will seriously complicate the possibilities for individual train operators to operate our tracks while the National Audit Office notes that it is expensive and that no improved social benefits can be seen. The Christian Democrats, Left and SD have therefore agreed that the project should be postponed. The Centre Party and the Liberals have presented a special opinion which in practice says the same thing as the Christian Democrats, the Left and the Swedish Democrats. However, it does not intend to vote in favour of its own policy on this matter as it is bound by the agreement with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The Social Democrats and the Green Party seem to stand by the current line despite the fact that the project is becoming a failure. As an old municipal politician, I must admit that I do not really feel comfortable with how we in Parliament deal with this type of matter. Almost everyone agrees that Ertms is not working as intended. Yet today we are going to let this project through just because the parties cannot agree on a common position. I am not sure that those who might read this report really understand what happens when everyone criticises the project, but that it must continue as if nothing has happened. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my closing speech by asking the Green Party some concrete questions whose representative will come up in the debate later. You usually argue that more goods should be transferred to rail. At the same time, you are behind the deployment of Ertms, which, according to the train operators, is likely to result in several of the companies operating goods on our railways being forced to close down. How do you view this problem? You also argue that fossil fuel should be more expensive. At the same time, you say no to additional nuclear energy, which is the only large-scale energy source we have to meet the future need for both electricity and power. How do you make it all go together? Madam President, I would like I want to lift in a block that I did not intend to bring up in the first place. But I reacted a little – and not so little either – when the Swedish Democrats wanted to blame immigrants when it comes to Swedish investments. I am the grandfather of children who are immigrants, I have children who are immigrants and I am married to an immigrant. In addition, I am a historian, and I can see that throughout Swedish history, with the exception of the last peace in 1814, Sweden has been a multicultural country. There is really no development that has taken place in Sweden without it being strongly linked to immigration. I myself am of Wallon family a bit back in history. We have had Finns and Walloons, we have had the Jewish population and we have had Germans in Sweden. In modern times we have had people from the Balkans, Chileans, people from Africa and people from the Middle East here. In short: Sweden is a country that has always had some kind of relationship with others. If you look at when the big change in investment in infrastructure took place, you can see that it was in the 1970s as soon as possible. At that time, they moved from a budget that was shared in operation and investment and instead received a single budget. What happened then, according to the figures I have been able to see, is that we went from investing about 2% a year in infrastructure to investing 1% today. And in the 70s, my friends, there was at least no major immigrant debate in Sweden, if I put it that way. Another small dilemma is that you throw yourself with numbers. Like I said, I'm married to an immigrant. So I have a daughter who is semi-Swedish or wholly Swedish – whatever you call it – and I have grandchildren who are immigrants. I've been looking in the statistics. My wife has a company, and many of my immigrant friends have companies that have Swedish employees. Where do I see statistics on how much my wife contributes? What does the Finnish Immigration Service cost, but can someone show me the figures of all the immigrants who work and work in Swedish society and what their tax contributes to? We can see the costs, but no one has shown me the proceeds at all. I apologise for having gone over the speaking time a little bit, but I was a little upset. Madam President, I would like We support all our claims and all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 28.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-819	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson! I share your view in much of what you said. I am also pleased that Norway has decided that they want better coordination of the Nordic infrastructure. There is a decision that was made a long time ago, namely that the railways should be electrified until the great hell that we opened yesterday. But Norway has backed out again, so please bring it up with your party colleague! The Infrastructure Plan will work together with all other policies to build housing, to increase employment and to make society more robust and sustainable for us now and for future generations. I see in the Christian Democrats' proposal an announcement that we want to enable fossil-free charging and refuelling throughout the country by expanding the infrastructure with e.g. charging stations for electric cars. It also wants to stimulate more pedestrian and bicycle traffic. That is exactly what the government also wants to do; it was even in the budget submitted by the transitional government. But my surprise is great when I also know that the Moderates and Christian Democrats, together with the Swedish Democrats, reduced the budget by 2.1 billion on climate and environment. These appropriations, such as those for which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is responsible, are reduced by 40 per cent. It is about investments in biogas plants, investments in bicycle and public transport, investments in charging stations and much more. These efforts would not have taken place without State aid. How does Magnus Jacobsson view rhetoric versus practice in terms of how to achieve climate goals and the Transport Committee's part in this?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-824	Madam President, I would like For my part, I am pleased that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats joined forces in a reservation that actually became the budget we now have. If we hadn't, it's a large amount of money – I don't remember the exact figure, but it's about billions – that hadn't gone to, for example, Trafikverket. This was not an unwillingness on the part of the Social Democracy, but was linked to the fact that we had a transitional government and the regulations for it. With the presentation of another budget motion, the time needed for investments, including those you yourself, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg, was not lost in your speech. I am very pleased with the budget that we have put forward, because it has enabled us to continue working in the area of infrastructure. With regard to the climate money and the environmental area in which it is located, we have had different views from those of the government. I am also pleased with the priorities we have set there. I am, for example, very doubtful that earlier plans were made to buy private forest in an inappropriate way, in my opinion and in the opinion of my party. The private owners take care of their forest and get an environmental value, and then the state suddenly comes and will buy it in an improper way. I am very pleased with the budget as a whole.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-828	Madam President, I would like It is good if you write a budget that you are satisfied with it in its entirety. I think you should be. I still have a question. There are many fine words in the proposal for an announcement on how to change, on how important it is and on what we need to invest in for this. It says about bikes, and it says about everything else. As I said, it says about charging poles, about bicycle and public transport and about biogas plants. But if you take away the money, how do you solve the transition? What do you say, Magnus Jacobsson? What is your proposal to solve this if you do not want to invest money in the environment and climate?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-831	Madam President, I would like I believe that the transition will come anyway, for the simple reason that it is not the government money that determines whether the business community is starting to change. Government money can be involved as a lubricant or work in other ways. I myself have been a member of the Regional Development Board in West Sweden, where we have spent quite a lot of money on various projects that, among other things, have had an environmental profile. But that's not really where you see the big change coming. The big change comes when a technology is mature and you go in and make bigger investments. What I would like to see, for example, is that the government, preferably together with us, is preparing an investigation into how we can electrify most of Sweden when it comes to the major roads. It could probably be possible to do that without government money, because the electricity used will be sold. I therefore believe that many of the adjustments we need are perfectly possible without the kind of subsidies that you have the habit of introducing.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-835	Madam President, I would like I asked for a reply with a view to repeating, but possibly clarifying, the reason why the Centre Party has a special opinion rather than reserveing itself in favour of the extremely critical motion that the Centre Party, together with the Liberals, has raised in the parliamentary Transport Committee against the letter submitted by the National Audit Office and the Government. It's about a new signalling system. We are doing so, Madam President and Magnus Jacobsson, in the context of a January agreement with 73 points, which on some points also relate to transport infrastructure, we are highlighting that the Swedish rail system must function better and deliver better than it is today. It's about how it should be maintained and what it should be invested in. I do so, of course, on the basis that I consider the conditions for success in relation to the ERTMS issue and other issues to be greater by pursuing the January agreement than by reserving me in this House. I believe, Madam President, that train operators and railway people would rather see action than an announcement. If I and the Center Party fail to do this, we'll have to deal with it later. But my absolute ambition is to pursue exactly the line expressed by the Center Party and the Liberals in their motion within the framework of the January Agreement. Incidentally, it was a very good conclusion to Jacobsson's speech about the importance of us becoming more in this country, because it is actually the lack of people that makes us unable to deliver what we are supposed to.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-839	Madam President, I would like I have the greatest respect for Anders Åkesson. It is even the case that his argumentation at the group meetings we had when we still collaborated a little more closely within the Alliance has caused the Christian Democrats to make a change of position. If you look at what we have said before about Ertms, we have been much closer to the Moderates. We have made criticisms, but we have not put our foot down. Of course, I may have experienced a measure of surprise when we approach C and L in KD, even so much that Left and SD are on the same line, and we will still vote differently. Technically, we have the opportunity to write specific opinions in which one makes one's perception of value clear. I respect the fact that the Centre Party and the Liberals intend to do all they can in the negotiating group they are part of. I lift my hat because you strive to do it. However, that does not prevent me from expressing a surprise today that, in principle, all but two parties say that this is extremely doubtful but will not say no today.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-841	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jacobsson. I am pleased that as a centre party I have succeeded in the change of position that the Christian Democrats have clearly made in relation to E R T M S. Then I've always made some impression, and I'm happy about that. It was good that Jacobsson expressed his surprise at our particular opinion, because it gave me the opportunity to explain once again how, in the framework of the 73 points of the January Agreement, we intend to pursue exactly the same approach to Ertms and very much else that I think is good for the confidence and functioning of the Swedish rail system. There are also points, Madam President, where the Center Party did not settle with the government in the framework of the January agreement. There, the Center Party will continue to reserve, push and be oppositional. We have that opportunity to do together, Mr Jacobsson, if I succeed in convincing the Christian Democrats, on any further point, of the fineness of the Center Party. But who knows?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-844	Madam President, I would like Now we have heard on two occasions how Anders Åkesson, the Center Party, with some emphasic and good confidence in a polite way has made it clear that the Centre Party and the Liberals – I perceive you speak for both parties – intend to do everything you can to get a better order in this. However, I have not heard any time, and it would be rude for me to ask for a time factor because the line time is over. I note that there seems to be a will, but I note no time factor, so it will be exciting to follow this will over time.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-846	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson, Sweden is a strange country, because one can apparently not find that anything costs money if it concerns immigration. Other things you can talk about very freely. However, your party leader is a little better at it. I have to say that I am a little surprised that I would not be able to say that if you spend money on a costly immigration policy, there will be less money left for other purposes. That's pretty obvious. SVT writes that 2016 we had 50 billion as a direct cost of migration for the state. The year before SVT highlights a cost for only unaccompanied minors of 26 billion. It's not a little money. We have had an immigration that has really done a lot for Sweden. We've needed labor in the '60s and '70s. They came here and got to work. I have an example of that. I worked at Rockwool and did isolation. There were people who came to Sweden on Friday and on Monday they started working immediately. Of course it'll generate money. But if we do not get jobs, there will be a direct cost. There are other expenses. We have costs for establishment compensation and costs for other parts of society. Municipalities have large costs for support, we need more resources for the police, there is a shortage of housing and so on. The billions are rolling, Magnus Jacobsson, and I have a direct question for you: do you not see any expenditure at all on immigration policy?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-852	Madam President, I would like Obviously, we seem to be talking past each other. I did not question the existence of costs. Nor do I question the fact that you say there are costs. I question when making a net cost a reality and putting it in relation to a specific area of expenditure. Now you are actually tending to do so in all areas of expenditure. The catch is that I requested the actual gross cost. What is the cost when you count what immigration also provides for resources? You mention, for example, the housing market. Yes, it is correct that we have a cost because housing needs to be built. But what happens when housing is built? Yes, it provides jobs, and it leads to economic development. For example, my home district, West Sweden, has the strongest construction boom. While Stockholm and Malmö are lagging behind, we continue to build in West Sweden. This is what we are proud of. It is clear that some are building beautiful villas at home in Ljungskile, which I have done myself, and another part is that you build rental apartments because we have people who need housing. The problem with your reasoning is not that you mention the cost. The problem is that you set cost at cost but never report revenue. That's my criticism.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-856	Madam President, I would like The Expert Group on Public Economy Studies, ESO, has taken this into account and looked at the level of employment of refugees between 1983 and 2015. The study shows that the integration of refugees has gradually deteriorated over the period and that an average refugee represents a cost of SEK 74 000 per year for public finances. We have called for a government report that really goes through all the costs and revenues, but we have not received that. Of course it would have been desirable. However, we can at least say that net costs are high and that they go beyond other items. We think it is relevant that the Swedish people get good currency for the tax they pay, because we both agree that you should get currency for tax money. And currency for tax money is, of course, that we have well-maintained roads and a well-maintained railway network, but we do not have that today. Maintenance has been neglected for a long time. It is clear that if you spend the money on another item, it will be less for this item. Well, that's pretty obvious, and I think we're pretty much in agreement, if you can speak freely from the heart.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-860	Madam President, I would like There are probably even those who sometimes think I speak too freely, and that is exactly what I do. I'm living in the middle of this. If I arrange a children's party at home, it's with children there from so many cultures. And what I see is that most of the people I hang out with who are immigrants work, work and pay taxes. Although I feel in many respects that the government is not doing well, it is de facto that the time it takes to enter the labour market has decreased. I think it is good, but I do not think it is good enough. We would have to do more, but perhaps I will be in a tax or labour market debate. I have no problem with accounting for net costs, but I assume that we also highlight the benefits that exist when people wear their faces sweat and pay taxes for me to get good health care, good roads and good health. I'm proud of those who wear their faces sweat to make Sweden better, and I'm very happy about my immigrant friends who do just that. (Andre VICE TALMANNEN: I would like to remind Members that the subject of the debate is infrastructure and nothing else. )
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-865	Madam President, I would like We talk a lot about big investments, but it is also important to invest in the basic infrastructure so that we have smooth roads and even pavements. As you could see, I was limping. I stumbled, and there were X-ray costs and that sort of thing. It is therefore important to look at the high costs but also to ensure that the basic infrastructure works. Madam President, I would like Sweden is, on the surface, the third largest country in the EU, and we often do not think about it. It is also the country with the longest distance between the senders. Keeping this country together requires a lot of investment, which is why it is important that our infrastructure efforts take a long-term holistic approach. Transport decisions have a major impact on all citizens, on our societies and, not least, on our companies. The infrastructure must meet many needs: work commuting, freight transport and people meeting. The growing needs require that we prioritise and that the investments are conditional on the environmental objectives we have. The Liberal position is that we should not restrict the possibility of travelling. It is very important that people meet and that goods come out. It is a prerequisite for social development. Instead, we want to focus on obtaining reliable transport – while of course wanting a fossil-free transport sector. Liberals also do not want to set different modes of transport against each other. It is important that flights, boats, trains, cars and bicycles meet the various transport needs they meet. I will talk about three different areas: rail, road transport and the technology of the future. Investment and maintenance needs in the railways are high. We need a robust and punctual rail system. It's a prerequisite for people choosing the railroad. Otherwise, you choose a plane, a car or a truck. The important thing is to come forward, and if you do not do so with the railways, you choose another means of transport, which is not good for the environment. We need to increase the capacity of the railways. We need to invest in new main lines and, at the same time, upgrade existing rail networks. Many of our important rail networks still have to some extent single tracks, and that, of course, is not okay. It reduces the capacity of these networks when double tracks become single tracks, which become timed for the whole system. It is also important that we invest in the investments that are most economically profitable. It is therefore important that the socio-economic calculations give politicians the right conditions to make the right decisions. Liberals want to see a review of the foundations of these socio-economic calculations and a more transparent way in which freight transport is carried out. Now it's very focused on passenger transport. A major investment in Sweden's national plan is the reinvestment in the railway signalling system. In the national plan there is over 30 billion for Ertms. The Swedish National Audit Office's report notes that the arguments that led to us making decisions on Ertms are no longer valid. Ertms does not provide the promised capacity increase and no benefits for cross-border journeys in the foreseeable future. In addition, the development cost of the Ertms technology itself has tripled from around 1 billion to 3 billion, and we are still not there. Liberals want to discuss a temporary stop to quality-assurance the introduction of Ertms. In the pot is that if the signalling system does not work, we risk the trains stopping, and that is definitely not good for the environment. We therefore need to ensure the quality of Ertms. We do not say no to Ertms, but it must be quality assured before it goes further. Cars and trucks are the cornerstone of our transport system. Unfortunately, they still account for a very large part of the emissions from the transport system. Vehicle transport was the focus of the report presented by the Climate Council on how to achieve the 2030 targets. The transition is not fast enough, and the transport sector needs to switch to a fossil-free fleet. Therefore, the Liberals want to focus on the infrastructure investments that will quickly have an impact on climate emissions if we look at 2030. We want to invest more money in charging infrastructure, primarily along our main roads, to enable a faster transition to electric transport and thereby reduce emissions. We also need to invest in fossil-free fuels. The diesel cars sold today must be able to operate fossil-free. All diesel cars sold until the sales stop will be 20 years ahead. It is therefore important that there are fossil-free fuels so that we can continue to reduce CO2 emissions. Finally, I will talk a little about the technology of the future. Self-driving vehicles, electric drive, new fuels, hydrogen, sharing technologies – all of this will be very important for us to be able to achieve our environmental goals and manage all transport. Yesterday, at the EU conference on connected and self-driving cars, I raised the question of how we can create a common, realistic picture of how we can introduce new technologies and how it can be introduced over time. I took Sweden as an example, and the interest was huge because many people know that we in Sweden are good at working together and getting all the actors to work in the same direction. They were very interested to hear how politicians can help support this introduction. It became clear to me that Sweden is very far ahead in technology development. In order to ensure that Sweden remains at the forefront in the future and to promote good social development, the Liberals believe that a national strategy should be developed for the development of autonomous vehicles and transport. It is important that it takes into account the impact of the new technologies on the vast majority of social functions. All of this has to lie down. It is not just about our committee, transport and communication. When I made my presentation in Brussels, I saw that at least ten other committees are concerned by the new technology, and we need to start discussing this in this House. To look ahead: Liberals want to see how opportunities for electric flights and also general aviation can affect our airport strategy. The strategy adopted in 2017 said that electric flights may be interesting for the future, but we have heard how electric flights get in the near future during the autumn. Therefore, if an airport review is to be carried out, it is important to take into account what it is for airports to be preserved. Bringing in the new technology may give you other priorities. Finally, I would like to say that we in the Liberals are, of course, behind all our reservations and specific opinions, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 14 on research and innovation to ensure Sweden's continued competitiveness.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-886	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 42 under paragraph 21, and I would also like to support the committee's proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the Transport Committee's report No 5 on infrastructure. The report also deals with the Government's letter National Planning for Transport Infrastructure 2018 – 2029. In addition, two letters from the Swedish National Audit Office and the Government's response to these and a large number of motion requests are discussed. In my speech, however, I intend to focus on the national plan, if possible. Overall, the plan includes measures amounting to 700 billion. The Government emphasises that Sweden should have a robust, environmentally friendly and reliable transport infrastructure that is at the forefront of innovative and efficient solutions. Sweden will be the first fossil-free welfare nation, which requires a shift in the transport sector. Domestic transport currently accounts for about one third of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions, and road traffic in turn accounts for more than 90% of the transport sector's emissions. The Climate Policy Council identifies the transport sector as extremely important for achieving the overall climate objectives. That is why the Council chose to focus on the transport sector in its first report, which was released a few weeks ago. Despite the fact that emissions from the transport sector would have to decrease by 8% per year by 2030 in order to reach the targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 70% by 2030, we see that the reduction in previous years has slowed down. Emissions have even increased slightly. Further measures are therefore needed to reduce emissions from the transport sector. Madam President, I would like Then it is important that we build a transport system for the future that promotes fossil-free and sustainable transport. During its time in the government, the Green Party has worked to ensure that the national plan supports a development towards a more sustainable transport system. A more sustainable transport system means a transport system in which we can transport both people and goods without burdening the environment and without being dependent on fossil fuels. Then our transport needs to be more energy efficient, that is to say, that we should be able to transport ourselves with less energy. Here the question of how we plan and build our transport system is crucial. Then someone might think, ‘ Is it not enough just to switch to a fossil - free fuel or electricity? ' No, already the so-called FFF investigation, the study on fossil-free vehicle traffic, from 2013, which was set up under the alliance government, stated that transport must be made more efficient with reduced transport needs and increased transport efficiency and increased use of public transport if we are to have a fossil-free transport sector where electricity and biofuels are sufficient for the transformation of both the transport sector and other sectors. In order to achieve fossil-free vehicle traffic, a combination is required of: social measures that reduce the need for transport and reward the use of energy-efficient modes of transport. More efficient vehicles and their use, which means that less energy is needed to do the same transport work. The supply of fossil-free energy to vehicles – mainly electrification and use of biofuels. That's what the report says. For this reason, we from the Green Party are working particularly to increase the opportunity for people and goods to transport on the railways, which is the most energy-efficient mode of transport in terms of energy per person-kilometre. In addition, trains in Sweden are in most cases powered by fossil-free electricity. The Green Party wants to connect Sweden with trains that go on time, build high-speed rail lines and expand the railways throughout the country. That was paragraph 1 of our election manifesto. I am therefore pleased that the plan represents a historic effort on the railways, where the framework for operation, maintenance and traffic management on the railways is increased by 47 %, or by 40 billion, compared with the previous planning period. The framework amounts to a total of 125 billion euros during the planning period, of which SEK 1.2 billion will be used for research and innovation. In addition, the point on maintaining rail is also financed by revenues from rail charges. These are estimated to amount to 27.4 billion. These are important efforts to overcome the problems on the railways that affect both travellers and freight transporters each year. The railway has for many years and several governments have not been given priority, but with the Green Party in the government there is now a historic strengthening of railway maintenance. Unfortunately, this is not a quickfix. These efforts will not have a direct effect on the moment in the form of more punctual trains, but first important track work will take place. It will take some time to remedy years of neglect. In the context of the development of the transport system, which has a budget of 333.5 billion, important investments are also being made in rail transport. For example, the first important steps in the construction of new high-speed rail lines are highlighted. Madam President, I would like However, we Greens know that the measures outlined in the national plan are not sufficient. In the coming national plan, there needs to be an even greater focus on conversion, and therefore I am pleased that the January agreement makes it clear that we are going to expand the infrastructure and connect Sweden with trains that go on time. Perhaps there has been some similarity between the wording of the January agreement and the wording of the Miljö party's election manifesto. New high-speed rail lines will be built between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and provide attractive travel times both for the cities that will have stations along the track and for the surrounding towns and countryside. For the Green Party, it is important that these tracks and trains come on time, i.e. that there is a rapid expansion so that we can achieve the positive effects for both climate and industry within a reasonable time. It is also important that they are built at really high speeds, 320 kilometres an hour, because that is what it takes to get the necessary transfer from air traffic to rail. We also want to see the financing of the roll-out of high-speed rail lines carried out as a separate project with separate funding so that other important items are not squeezed out of the national plan. The Green Party has been the driving force to put an end to the infrastructure-related problems suffered by the railways. We have worked towards a zero vision for train trouble, and with the January agreement, a long-term maintenance plan and a programme of measures to ensure increased punctuality will now be developed in collaboration with the train operators. Investment in increased maintenance and new tracks will also be important elements to achieve increased punctuality. Madam President, I would like Another important thing about the national plan is that the urban environment agreements now become permanent, with 1 billion per year during the planning period. This possibility of state co-financing for the development of infrastructure for sustainable transport, such as trams, bus lanes and cycle lanes, in our cities is extremely important. It is in cities that we have the best opportunity to streamline travel and replace travel by car with more energy- and above all surface-efficient travel. Believe it or not, I too, as an environmentalist, fully understand that the car will be needed in many places in our elongated country for the foreseeable future. Therefore, it is of course also important for all efforts to get a fossil-free vehicle fleet with both bonuses – malus, to make it easier to buy a new fossil-free car, as well as the incorporation of renewable fuel through the reduction obligation that will facilitate a conversion for everyone who already has a car. But the fact remains: in cities, driving needs to be reduced, both for the climate and for us to have more vibrant and attractive cities. Public transport and cycling are therefore the backbone of climate-smart and sustainable cities. Now, I'm sure someone thinks you shouldn't set traffic laws against each other. Unfortunately, however, it is important to have the priorities clear to us if we want to achieve a sustainable transport system. Neither budget nor physical space is unlimited. In the next national plan, I and the Green Party therefore want an even greater focus on sustainable transport – that the maintenance and expansion of rail for both passenger and freight transport will be the focus and that bicycle traffic will also have a clearer place. In this respect, I think that we need to have a clear objective of increasing cycling traffic in the run-up to such work. I think we need more resources for cycling. I also think that we need to devote more resources to the county plans for the expansion of bicycle infrastructure. My hope is that important investments in railway infrastructure can be brought forward so that they do not delay and, at worst, are pushed out of the plan. Further measures are also needed to transfer more goods from truck to shipping, although it may not be the efforts of the national plan that are most crucial here without various economic instruments. Finally, the climate issue is the destiny of our time. How and if we solve the issue of a sustainable transport sector is crucial if we manage to take our responsibility in Sweden and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. That is why I and the Green Party are giving priority to infrastructure that makes it easier to reach the climate targets. That is why we want us to move towards our climate targets and not just based on forecasts.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-910	Madam President, I would like There was much in Emma Berginger's speech that I could agree with. But what ultimately makes the decision is what we as parties drive and what we get through. When the national infrastructure plan began to be drawn up, we did not have a climate policy framework, and we did not have a climate law. But now we have it. When you listen to, for example, the Climate Policy Council, they say that there is a fundamental error in our infrastructure planning, namely that we do not relate to the climate target. It is not the governing body for infrastructure planning. The same thing has been said several times by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. A concrete example of this, which I mentioned in my speech, is the construction of Tvärnändning Södertörn – a huge motorway a few miles south of here in the Stockholm area. This whole project is based on increased road traffic, otherwise it does not go together economically. For this reason, for example, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has dismissed this construction and says that it is completely at odds with our climate goals. This report deals with a motion from us in the Left Party, in which we propose that this national plan must be revised so that it is based on our climate targets. We also propose that a construction such as Interconnection Södertörn should not be built for this reason, and that money should be spent on something else. I would like to ask whether the Green Party is pushing for infrastructure planning to take its starting point in our climate goals and that it is they who should be governing and not forecasts of increased road traffic.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-915	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the question. Climate targets are very important, and the Green Party believes that they should be governing. That is precisely why we are very pleased that the January agreement points out that all relevant legislation should be reviewed on the basis of the climate policy framework. Just as Jens Holm mentioned, when the national plan that we are seeing here today was not planned, it was not in place. We also know that we do not turn the whole ship around in one day. There have been major transfers during the previous term of office, and I see that we can make further transfers in the coming term of office. I can point out a number of different objects in this plan that were not at the top of the Green Party's wish list. But our government is based on cooperation. That is precisely why there are various interests to be taken into account. But for the Green Party it goes without saying that it is the climate targets that should be governing.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-919	Madam President, I would like If climate targets are to be governing, it is a little unfortunate that we now have a plan that runs for the next ten years. And it's the biggest infrastructure investment in a long time. We have a plan that actually does not have climate targets as a starting point, but many objects are based on increased road traffic. I think that all plans must be able to be adjusted a little, because things are happening. Now, for example, we have a climate law. Does the Green Party not think it would be a good idea to revise this plan on the basis of our climate target, otherwise we will build on the infrastructure investments for the next ten years that do not relate to our climate law? And it is actually ten years that we now have to save the climate. If the Green Party is not prepared to pursue this issue, I am, in fact, a little worried.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-921	Madam President, I would like With regard to these infrastructure plans, which operate for a very long time, one should know that they are also revised once per mandate. To throw all this work in the trash and say that we should do it again when we are about to develop a new one does not feel relevant to me. But be assured that the Green Party is prioritising the climate issue and will push this issue also in the negotiations on a forthcoming national plan.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-923	Madam President, I would like It was exciting to listen to the previous line shift. I'm about as worried as Jens Holm, but because I have exactly the opposite view. It can sometimes be exciting. When I listen to Emma Berginger's speech, I am more concerned that there is a picture of where we should be but that reality does not look like that. The unpleasant, difficult and sweaty reality is that the population is increasing and that we have an increased trade. Thus we will have more transport. It is clear that we Christian Democrats will then enter into the debate, but not with concerns about the need to reduce transport. We can, of course, try to do this through instruments and so on in urban areas. But it is not realistic to believe that it will happen throughout the kingdom. Rather, we need to have a mix of measures. Madam President, I would like Some of the thoughts that are highlighted do not really hold up mathematically. If rail freight flows are increased by 100 per cent, this corresponds to 8 per cent truck flow by 2017 figures. So if we look at how much you were driving on a truck and how much you were driving on a railway, it would reduce truck traffic by 8%. It does not solve the environmental problem. Then it is rather electrification of the major roads, so that trucks drive more environmentally friendly, which would solve the problem. It is probably also cheaper than making efforts to manage a 100% increase by rail.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-927	Madam President, I would like The unpleasant truth, in my opinion, is not an increase in the number of citizens or the volume of transport, but the unpleasant truth is climate change and the challenges they will face us with. That is precisely why the climate issue is a very priority, and I agree with the honourable Member, Magnus Jacobsson, that it is a mix of measures that need to come about in order for us to solve the issue of a sustainable transport sector. But then we must also have the courage to look at what is most effective, and the most efficient per person-kilometre is the railways. It has both physical explanations and other explanations. While I have this change of line, I would like to take this opportunity to see the attacks that a Member of this House, Magnus Jacobsson, made during his speech, Madam President. After all, I could not ask for a reply to his speech because I had not spoken yet. It was about Ertms, which the EU is calling for us to introduce by 2030 – while we know that we have a great need to invest in new switchboards already now. Should we first invest in new ATC switchboards and then convert them to Ertms, we would have an additional cost of 40% compared to the total investment cost. It was also a question of fossil fuels and nuclear power. I just want to say that nuclear power is expensive and unprofitable and that it stands in the way of investment in more profitable investments in renewable energy.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-932	Madam President, I would like I think we fully agree that electricity is one of the most efficient ways to move energy. If you have an electric motor, you have the absolute best energy capability. In the same way, electricity on tracks is better than electricity on asphalt, and the whole bit. Many other technologies, whatever we use, have greater energy losses. The problem is that it is also very expensive, for example, to expand tracks in the ability that could meet what is currently rolling on the road. Again: If we increase freight flows by 100% on rail, which no plan contains solutions to manage – whether the plan we have or the plan you have, Emma Berginger – it would reduce the flow by 8%. Let's face it, we got trucks and they're gonna be here. Rather, what we need to do is to make them more environmentally friendly. Then electrification is a solution, and hydrogen may be another solution. However, we must see reality as reality, and that is really what was my main criticism. Should we then electrify also passenger transport – cars – and perhaps even see how it works on ships and so on, we need more capacity. Then coal power is considerably worse than nuclear power, for example. One must also have a regulatory energy that allows us to use the energies, that is, the effect, when the most people are in motion. It is pure, cress mathematics, and if we are to make these changes to the good transport system, we must see the whole chain. So I am a railway hugger– I love rail, and I travel rail as often as I can – but it will not be the one that solves our environmental problems. We need to take more action, and that is where I was a little worried when I listened to the speech.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-936	Madam President, I would like We can see that a variety of solutions are needed to solve the issue of a sustainable and fossil-free transport system. We need both electrification and a transition to biofuels, but with regard to living forests and biodiversity. We also need to make our transport more efficient, and this applies to both freight and passenger transport. We will have to work to increase the capacity of the rail system, both for transport and for goods. That is why the Green Party is pushing the issue of building new high-speed main lines, because we will then also relieve the existing main roads and create more space for freight transport, for example. We will also have to work on truck traffic. I do not think that there is an environmental party that claims that we will not have any trucks in Sweden, and that is why we must of course look at what our possibilities are in terms of electrification and in terms of various biofuels – for example biogas, which is extremely interesting for truck traffic.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-939	Madam President, I would like I have to say it's great to be back in Parliament. It is also very fun to hear a funny debate! It is especially now, because at the beginning of the month the Ministry of Infrastructure was inaugurated – something that I hope will please all members of the Transport Committee. It's been 20 years since we had a Department of Communications. Now this government is gathering power around a single department where we bring infrastructure issues and transport policy together with energy policy. Charging infrastructure or power supply is not least important when electrifying the vehicle fleet. We also add digitalization, 5G and connectivity. Everyone here who has talked about transport policy and infrastructure knows what a fantastic opportunity this means when we are pooling our energies around the modernisation and upgrading that Sweden needs to make. We are already a world leader, but we can do so much more to ensure that our transport system is modernised and not least electrified. We are doing this for double reasons. One is to strengthen our competitiveness – make sure that we get a little better than the environment at having smart transport. We need it; we are a small, export-dependent industrial country that must be able to assert itself in the world's markets. We must also be able to compensate for the fact that we are a large country with long distances. That's why we need smart transport. Of course, we are also doing this to become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. We are going to be the country that can achieve that 70% target we are talking about – which shows that the transport sector can actually be converted to fossil-free with electrification or, for that matter, biogas or other biofuels. Showing that it is possible to complete the transition will be a full guide to government policy during this term of office. It is about jobs, employment, competitiveness and sharpening our ability to have a better transport system – and at the same time ensuring that we do so by meeting climate investments and targets. This is being done in a situation where we now decided on a national plan. That is 100 billion more than in the previous plan and 700 billion in total if we include rail charges. It is a historic investment in infrastructure, after years of underinvestment and years of failure to invest in and invest in the Swedish rail system. Although the Swedish people want to travel more trains and even though companies want to send more goods on the trains, they did not invest in the rail system, and the effects we see today are: signalling errors and faults. It won't hold. We need to make a real effort on the rail system. This is done in the national plan, and I was proud when we were able to present the greatest railway effort in modern times. I also note that the national plan received a very broad consensus when we presented it. Although everyone here knows that the requests for infrastructure are incredibly great – it is clear that in every region and every part of the country, every industry and every party, there are requests for more things in terms of infrastructure – we know that the 700 billion framework we managed to achieve is still quite ambitious. It is 100 billion more than in the previous framework, and this means that we could accommodate an incredible number of projects that will enable us to lift Sweden in the future when it comes to our transport system. Here is Norrbotniabanan, where we took the shovel as late as August, and in it people's dreams that we with Botniabanan and Norrbotniabanan can have fantastic rail transport along the Norrland coast – with the needs to both enlarge the labour market region and cope with freight traffic to a greater extent. Here is Malmbanan, which is absolutely necessary for the Swedish base industry. These are heavy investments in order not least to cope with heavier transport. There are four tracks between Uppsala and Stockholm and the possibility of 50,000 homes on this route alone. Above all, this is a transport-intensive part of Sweden, not only for the Stockholm and Uppsala areas but also for the whole of northern Sweden. Here is Sydostlinken, which I as a Smålander may well say is my heart child: Älmhult, Olofström and down to Karlshamn. It's about finding smart freight transport, offloading the Southern Main Line and making sure that with these 1.6 billion we make the biggest railway effort in southeastern Sweden's history – and in this way strengthen the prerequisites for more goods out on shipping. Here you will find Ostkustbanan, and here you will find Gothenburg – Borås. How about that? At last we start the important part of the new main rail network, just like Lund– Hässleholm or for that matter Ostlänken. There is also the Central Line – I say this particularly to welcome the Group leaders of the Social Democrats in the Transport Committee. There are a lot of bets here. This is done together with a commitment to a 47% increase in rail maintenance. It is not just long-term plans for enlargement, it is here and now. It is about improving railway maintenance, improving functionality and making reinvestments. Everyone could tell when the hornet waist was off this summer. One had to stop a bit outside and in good time found out that even the transport would be a little different this time because the wasp was shut off. For the first time at I don't know how long there were conditions to renovate it. There goes a train every two minutes. It will be closed for two more summers, but it is now that we have acquired the resources, time and space to make a necessary renovation of one of the most important parts of the Swedish rail system. In this way, the 47% increase in rail maintenance will go through the entire Swedish rail system, and that is necessary. This is also an important part of the 73-point agreement, which I shall take this opportunity to mention. Here is the national plan, but here is also a focus on maintenance – long-term planning for railway maintenance and a clear action plan – so that we create predictability for operators in the maintenance sector. In this way we also create predictability both for those companies that want to send goods as well as for those who want to travel by train. It is now the upgrade is taking place, and this is only on the railway side. It is, of course, a very large part of the national plan, because we are going to meet the climate targets. To this comes the shipping, where we multiply the efforts with locks in Trollhättan, with fairway depth in Gothenburg, with fairway depth in Luleå and with Södertäljestingen. This is done in a situation where the flag is increasing for Swedish shipping – recently the 100th vessel was reached. There is optimism in Swedish shipping, and it is because we are giving clear signals in the national plan and in the transport policy in order to better be able to transfer more goods by rail and by sea. That is absolutely necessary. Of course, there is also investment in roads – 164 billion in road maintenance is not a small amount of money. This applies above all to a huge investment in road safety. However, there are also BK4, so that 74 tonnes of heavy goods vehicles, which we are now opening up to, can travel on our roads and take better transports into the world. I think that's how we're going to see the national plan. It is a clear increase in ambition in terms of our capacity, and it is a clear signal that the climate targets will govern the transition we are about to make. But it is also a clear signal that it is about investments throughout Sweden, from highways to major investments in big cities, not least through the metropolitan agreements. In the urban environment agreements there are SEK 12 billion, which can be both the subway and very extensive bicycle measures. In addition, there are 1.5 billion additional bicycle measures in the national plan. When summarising the national plan, one can say that it has created a new arena for the debate on infrastructure in Sweden. I am pleased that more people now want to see the next step and hope for a further revision or additional project, but I would also like to make it clear that this is a tough challenge. If Sweden is to do this, we need a proper concentration on the implementation of the projects. We need skills so that we have human resources. Clear governance and management as well as regional participation are also required. It's been important. In particular, I would like to say to the members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism that the plan was preceded by work where we went around the whole country and where priority has been given to each region. In each region, local politicians and regional politicians have said what is most important for them. This was indicative of the positions we made on the part of the government. I don't always want to judge. When a whole region says that it is completely united that an object is the most important object for the region, the government should also listen. This has guided the initiative, and it has played a major role in the involvement that exists in the infrastructure efforts we are now making throughout the country. Of course, it is also the case that a great deal is about how we will deal with this in the future. This is a prerequisite for the government to be able to implement the good strategy, in which we coordinate freight transport between all the different modes of transport to an extent that we have not done before. But this is also a prerequisite for us to be the permanent world exhibition that you have heard me talk about several times. The national plan lays down the conditions for electric roads, electrification of roads and the possibility of heavy fossil-free transport. Here's the geofencing. Here lies in the extension connected, self-driving cars. This is STM, Sea Traffic Management. Here is the digitization and electrification we see of the vehicle fleet. I appreciate that Helena Gellerman mentioned this, because it is an important part for Sweden to be at the forefront of technology. I believe that one challenge we have in the future is to realise that the national plan as such creates the fundamental arena for this. Then we want more. I want new high-speed main lines. Everyone realises that we need to make sure that we build increased capacity. That is why this is also an important part of the 73-point programme, and that is why I will be inviting further talks on the financing and implementation of new high-speed trains. This is important both in order to achieve the climate targets and to relieve the burden on rail systems. Above all, I think we should remember that increased capacity is actually needed if commuter trains and freight trains are to arrive. We can never put these against each other. On the contrary – one becomes a prerequisite for the other. I believe and hope for broad support for this. Some people would populistically argue that this is a conflict between city and country, but it is the opposite. The national plan is untouched. High-speed trains and new main lines are something that lies beyond. We in Sweden must not end up in the situation in which many European countries have ended up putting cities against land. On the contrary, we shall see the need to build an infrastructure that strengthens the conditions of the whole country. That is why rural roads are included. That is why shipping is included. Therefore, there is also increased capacity for new main routes. I'll say something about the skills supply. I appreciate that Anders Åkesson raised the gender equality aspect of the entire transport system. This requires our own, special debate, because we have some homework to do to ensure that we have a gender perspective in the formulation of our transport policy. There's something I'm going to take care of. With regard to the supply of skills for the 235 000 jobs required by the national plan to be implemented, there is no doubt. If we are going to do this – and it is not simple jobs, it is advanced jobs: logistics, engineers, planners and drivers – the industries and we must ensure that this is an attractive industry to seek and attract interest from the entire Swedish population. There is a gender equality challenge here. We must ensure that it becomes attractive for both women and men to work in the infrastructure sector and that both women and men dream of participating in the realisation of climate goals and to ensure that Sweden becomes a bit sharper and a little sharper when it comes to getting a good and efficient transport system. Therefore, I think it is important that we all, regardless of party affiliation, have a proper discussion about what is happening now in Transportsverige and how important it is for more people to go to this industry to be able to meet the climate challenges that we are facing, to be able to make the right investments and have human resources for this. I will conclude by saying something about the reaction I received when we delivered the national plan. When I was in Olofström and had a press conference about the South East Link, people were crying for joy that we could present a big venture in a region that felt that they had not previously been noticed. In Skellefteå and in Dåva they were very happy about the investment on Norrbotniabanan. In the harbour of Gothenburg they rejoiced with joy. In many different places in Sweden, investment in infrastructure raises hope and confidence in the future – you all know that. They raise hope that we can actually build Sweden stronger, but they also raise hope that it is possible to meet the climate challenge with smart investments. I believe that the national plan, with this 700 billion, and our ambitions to make important efforts in addition, are absolutely crucial in the social climate in which Sweden today finds itself. Of course, we are going to do things better, and we are, of course, going to ensure that resources are used in the best and most effective way. But we should never hesitate that the investments we are now making are being made to meet the climate targets and that we believe that this is possible. They are made so that the whole country can live and grow, and we are doing this because we believe it is possible. Politics is about acting – not just talking. We're acting. We've put the decisions in place. We deliver a national plan that is the biggest ever. I'm very happy about it, and I'm also happy about the turnout.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-980	Madam President, I would like In my speech I raised two questions which I would very much like to put to Tomas Eneroth. One is, on the basis of the debate that has taken place on the signalling system, how the government views this issue. It is, of course, stinging criticism that has been brought forward from the Swedish National Audit Office, and it is also stinging criticism that has been brought forward from those who are going to use the system. It would be good to have some sort of clarification on how the government perceives the situation, especially as we have now heard that C and L will push the issue that this should somehow be dealt with. The second question concerns what I myself raised in my speech and is very happy about. I know that all countries say at regular intervals that we should hold hands as much as we can and so on, and then maybe not so much. But now the Norwegian Government has given clear signals that it wants to cooperate with Sweden and Denmark. Then, of course, I am curious about how we in Sweden will handle this. It would be extremely good to have some form of overall collaboration. Personally, I would even find it exciting to have a parliamentary inquiry made up of parliamentarians from all three countries and really take a holistic approach. It is about our transport in the north, it is about transport in Central Sweden and it is about the Nordic triangle. We have an enormous number of reasons for finding common positive synergies between our three countries, especially in view of the large freight flows and the new trade that will take place. I think we all underestimate what happens when China now builds the new silk road. There is an exciting figure: In the 19th century, Europe was 25% of the world's population. We are now about to become 5 to 10 percent of the earth's population. This means that we are becoming increasingly dependent on trade with others. From being the dominant, we will be one of the negotiating parties. It will then be important that we in the Nordic countries also have well-functioning infrastructure. I would like to ask the two questions.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-986	Madam President, I would like With regard to Ertms, first of all, I welcome the report by the Swedish National Audit Office. I think it's good that you do reviews. I also note that the recommendations that Magnus Jacobsson calls "totally stinging" criticisms" suggest in the report that the Swedish Transport Administration should develop a strategy for the extent to which and how reinvestment measures outside the current ERTMS plan should be carried out. That is a number of recommendations that I think are fairly balanced. I think the Swedish National Audit Office is doing quite wisely in this, and we will of course handle it within the Government Office. As far as Ertms is concerned, it should nevertheless be remembered, because I have listened to the debate, that there are five times more delay minutes and errors per runway kilometre in places that do not have Ertms. All of you who speak warmly for punctuality and increased punctuality should consider how it would be affected if the ATC system remained – not to mention the 40% of upgrade costs it would otherwise cost to ATC. We should therefore be careful when discussing Ertms. It is important that we have a well-functioning signalling system. I think it is good that the Swedish National Audit Office is doing a proper review. I intend to make sure that we are working to upgrade both our ERTMS system and our rail system in a good way. But I also think it is important to realise this: to say no and stop now will in turn be able to lead to quite serious consequences for punctuality and reliability in the Swedish rail system. As far as Norway is concerned, perhaps my priority in the short term is to ensure that we get an electrification of Meråkerbanan right up to Trondheim. It is important for Sweden, in order to be able to get to the coast between Sundsvall and Trondheim. But of course we have good working cooperation with the Norwegians. I will come back in my second line and explain a little more about how I think about the strategy with regard to both Norway and Finland.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-990	Madam President, I would like If you read the full text about Ertms, you can see that there is strong criticism. In their speeches, freight operators in particular express great concern. Now we as a party have not raised the issue, but it is others who have done so, how the government sees whether to participate and contribute to their being able to drive, in other words, support them financially, or not. It is a bit important that the government responds to what happens if we continue with this system when such harsh criticism is brought forward. I miss that a little in the debate. Then I wait with great interest to hear how we will continue to work with our Nordic neighbours. It is no secret that I come from the district I come from, and what we see is that in the long run the E6 will not be able to handle all the flow of goods. Svinesundsbron, which is a newly built bridge, is, I know, the most trafficked freight stop in the Nordic region with 2,500 trucks per day. We need to take off to rail, and we cannot do that unless we invest in the south too. The port of Gothenburg is Norway's largest port. So there are things we need to do even in the Nordic triangle. I am therefore pleased that the Norwegian Government is opening the door to cooperation and I am naturally curious about how the Swedish Government intends to respond to that opening.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-993	Madam President, I would like I am just like the Norwegians very happy about the investments we make in the port of Gothenburg. We're the ones who make them. We're increasing capacity. Maritime transport is perhaps one of the most important roads in order to increase good capacity between Sweden and Norway, alongside improved rail connections. We chose from the Swedish side to highlight during the last term of office increased opportunities for CEF funding not only up to Stockholm but to Oslo, up to Haparanda and on to Finland. It was my way of making it clear that co-financing for infrastructure from the EU should not be reserved only for operations in southern Sweden. It must be the whole country's business. There cross-border projects will be prioritised. There we have good opportunities to talk about co-financing models, not least with our Norwegian friends. This labour market region will increase. Our relations and communications between Sweden, Norway and Finland will increase. But each nation also owns its decisions, as we have noticed in the discussion about Meråkerbanan. Since Anna-Caren and I opened the bridge at Stora Hellet, electrification goes all the way to the Norwegian border. Then there is a government in Norway that has chosen not to go further. I have made it clear that we from the Swedish side want an electrification. It would be good for Norway, it would be good for Sweden and it would be good for the whole region. Continued good cooperation, which we have with regard to Narvik and with regard to other parts of the transport system, will therefore definitely work towards.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-997	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Minister for Infrastructure. That's very positive. Perhaps I could ask for a degree of humility in the description of how fine everything is now that 700 billion is being invested. I have not been so long in this committee, but I have listened to and read these debates on a number of occasions and have heard the Minister for Infrastructure say about the same thing in the past. I have also heard representatives from the alliance parties recalling what history has been like. On the contrary, after years of underinvestment in railway maintenance, the alliance government took over and invested EUR 100 billion more. The truth is – and I know that Tomas Eneroth also knows – that the alliance government doubled the funding for railway maintenance during its time. But that's not really what I was going to talk about. I would like to mention the point I made in my speech on rail punctuality. As many others have mentioned here today, it is still the case that very many do not arrive on time. The trains are late. I and many with me have an app like this where there often comes a flash when you have booked a ticket that says the train is cancelled. You're standing on the train. It's still chaos, quite simply. Then my simple question is – yes, it may not be that simple, but I heard Emma Berginger from the Green Party say that she, too, thinks that this is important, and it is your partner in the government: what does the Minister for Infrastructure say? Will punctuality improve?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1000	Madam President, I would like If we start with the railway maintenance efforts under the alliance government, it is true that there was an increase. At the same time, however, there was a finance minister at the time who said that it was unprofitable to invest in rail and clearly indicated their disinterest. So there were no major new investments, but I can congratulate you on the fact that you made some increase in rail maintenance. We have taken it on and are increasing strongly. And that's good, because the functionality of the railway needs to be good. When it comes to punctuality, remember that it is now increasing. It might be good to know. The latest figures we have received show that punctuality is increasing. There have been no major fires or disasters, and we have had a little better weather. Then the punctuality increases. If you wanted to have very good punctuality, you would only reduce traffic. I think everyone in this House understands that too. But we're not gonna do that. The interest in travelling by train is increasing. Freight transport must also be increased. That is why we have the difficult challenge of ensuring high traffic density and, at the same time, trying to maintain the targets set by the industries in terms of punctuality. I believe that an important part that we must all remember is that the large volumes of maintenance efforts we will be making in the future will be a challenge for punctuality. That is why we are calling for the planning of railway maintenance, for an action plan and for predictability. It will be crucial for operators to meet the targets they have set themselves for punctuality. The same is true of Ertms, as I mentioned. If Jens Holm were to get his way – in a hurry I address you here, Jens – so that we immediately pull the brake for Ertms it might have negative effects on punctuality in the future. We must be aware of this, given the large gap in punctuality between the Ertms sections and those without Ertms. I will work to improve punctuality. But we must also ensure that the reliability and legitimacy of the Swedish rail system are increased. Punctuality is an important part. The second is the capacity we actually have in the rail system.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1006	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the fashioned humility. I think that's good. The voters don't want us to stand here and yell at each other about who's throwing the most billions. It is important that we signal that there is indeed a broad political consensus on investing in rail maintenance. Because it does. Back to punctuality. I and many people who commute and travel by train do not really recognize us in the description given by the Minister for Infrastructure. I pointed out in my speech that the delays last year reached all-time-low, with 62 000 hours delayed. Add to that that the Swedish Transport Agency believes that the deficiencies in the railway installations, which we have experienced on several occasions, will lead to a deterioration in punctuality for some time to come. It will therefore be important to send information to people. Will punctuality improve in the next few years or not? I know a lot of people do. But can the Minister of Infrastructure promise anything about that?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1009	Madam President, I would like I think everyone realises that with the under-investments that have been for a long time there are significant challenges in the rail system. It will of course mean that once we have made railway maintenance investments on certain routes, once we have made reinvestments, punctuality will increase considerably, just as it has done on the routes where it might have invested in Ertms. Reinvestment measures remain in place elsewhere. The starting point must be that we create predictability. But yes, the starting point must be that punctuality is increasing. It is about building legitimacy and confidence in the rail system. Then punctuality is also measured in the operation of commuter trains. There are several operators who have a shared responsibility. We saw not least how skip-stop in Stockholm deteriorated punctuality, when they found their own way of handling transport within the Stockholm region. Our starting point must be to ensure that there is increased confidence in both punctuality and the capacity of the Swedish rail system. The maintenance operations now planned are the most important contribution in this respect. The second is the coordination between the train operators, hence the point in the 73-point programme where we say that the Swedish Transport Administration, together with the train operators, will develop a joint maintenance plan with a list of measures, so that we create predictability. I believe that it will be absolutely crucial, not least for the maintenance companies, to get more time on track and more space to make the right investments. That is my starting point. This is where we are taking action to increase punctuality.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1015	Madam President, I would like I like the infrastructure minister's setting of this debate. Infrastructure investments are a source of great interest and hope in many areas. I think we need more grander projects, so that people have some hope for the future. It was also good that the Minister for Infrastructure clearly took up the climate target of reducing emissions from the transport sector by 70% and that it should guide all government policies. With regard to the climate target, I wonder, in my first question, whether the Minister for Infrastructure is prepared to make any adjustments to the infrastructure plan so that it is more clearly guided by the climate target. This is exactly what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Climate Policy Council advise the government to do. It is wonderful to hear about the major investments to be made: double track between Gävle and Härnösand, four track between Stockholm and Uppsala, Norrbotniabanan – The Liberals can finally take the train to Piteå. The rest of us can go on to Luleå, Gothenburg, Borås, Sydostlinken and so on. But, the Minister for Infrastructure, all of them have in common that they are the last in infrastructure planning. They begin at the earliest in 2024. Is the Minister prepared to advance any of these incredibly important train ventures? Finally, I would like the Minister to comment on what was said earlier by the Center Party on the Ertms signalling system. Will that signal system be the subject of negotiations between the government and its partner parties, so that the government may be able to postpone implementation until we know that it really delivers what it is supposed to do?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1019	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm! As far as the latter is concerned, we definitely need to talk about Ertms, about maintenance operations and much more. These are things that affect the reliability and functionality of the Swedish rail system. I believe that with the commitment that exists in the Transport Committee, many will be involved in the development of Ertms in the future. I was just trying to describe the conflict we are facing and was a little surprised that the chairman of the Transport Committee wanted to say stop, so easily, immediately, without properly explaining what consequences it would have for the Swedish rail system, economically and in terms of functionality and punctuality. You still have to know the consequences of that. Similarly, the consequences should be clear about bringing forward all investments in a national plan. No one is more eager than I am when it comes to getting started with many of the, not least, railway initiatives that exist. But everyone in this House knows that it requires long-term planning conditions. A forward-looking approach also means that we must allocate resources sooner. It's not quite simple. The Left Party was involved in the development of the national plan. In this context, I did not see any demands for forwarding. I am very pleased with the efforts we have made in the national plan. It is the largest railway investment in modern times. It will require rather careful preparation for the planning to be carried out. I only recently met a number of county governors all along the way for new main roads. They just courted me to talk about the fact that they need better conditions in order to be able to carry out the planning work faster. That is where the big challenge lies, with the whole complex legislation we have to implement good infrastructure objects.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1025	Madam President, I would like Although I did not sit at the negotiating table when the Left Party was negotiating the infrastructure plan, I followed the negotiations quite closely. And I know with determination that we lifted up, for example, the advance of Norrbotniabanan. We also raised the need for investments to increase the capacity of the national railway. These are things that we also raise in our exercise. We are also not very successful in spending nearly SEK 10 billion on another motorway project in the Stockholm region, when we know that the need to upgrade both smaller roads and railways in sparsely populated areas is huge. We lifted all that up. That is also what we are discussing in our motion in this report. All such plans are, or may in any case be, continually revised. Things change. Madam President, I would like There was one thing I did not really get an answer to: the fact that we have a climate law and a climate policy framework. Now our expert authorities say that this plan is not in line with the Climate Act. I would like to ask the Minister once again whether the Minister is prepared to revise the infrastructure plan on the basis of the fact that we have a climate law and a certain framework to stay within. Pausing the Ertms signal system to wait and see how it works in other countries, I think it is a matter of course to do. I have seen that several cases have been taken in Germany, Denmark and also Spain when it has been noticed that the system has not delivered what it had hoped for. For me, this is a natural approach. It is good that the whole thing should be discussed with the Center Party and the Liberals. The question, however, is whether the discussion will be about whether to pause and do something wise or just drive on.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1030	Madam President, I would like For me, a natural approach is to find out what the consequences are before you pause. That should be the starting point. You have to find out what the consequences are. Let us discuss this on other occasions in the future. I believe, however, that this must be the starting point and not to take without reservation a parliamentary decision that you do not really see the consequences of. When it comes to cross-connection Södertörn, it should be remembered that it was the Stockholm region's strongest wishes. One of the reasons why almost all parties in the Stockholm region had this as their strongest wish was that it meant better connections for the investment made in Norvik harbour. This represents an opportunity to significantly increase maritime transport. The capacity being built in Norvik's port will mean a substantial increase in transport opportunities by sea. Then we must also have good links there. As far as revision is concerned, I think Jens Holm is breaking open doors. All national plans are revised. Although the plan has a twelve-year cycle, we have a model where such plans are revised on a regular basis. Of course, this plan will also be revised in due course.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1033	Madam President, I would like Good evening, Minister of Infrastructure Eneroth! First of all, I would like to say that it is gratifying that we finally have an infrastructure department. I'm sure the Minister appreciates that, too. I would like to ask the Minister three questions. The first concerns Ertms. Mr Jacobsson referred earlier to the fact that operators have today written to us about the problem of Ertms. SJ has previously told the committee that there is no point in this. I do not really agree with the operators, but actually share the Minister's view. We need this to reduce the number of signal errors and switchgear errors. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats have a concern that Sweden is not quite ready to implement this. We therefore want to pause it. One question I would like to ask the Minister is: Does the Minister think that we are ready to implement Ertms now or does he see a risk that it will be the same story as for the Bothnia Line with delays and troubles? My second question to the Minister concerns the staff shortage. As the Minister heard, I mentioned in my speech the many retirements. Already the places in the training courses are empty. People don't go to the industry enough. Does the Minister have a plan to secure personnel supply or does he have any idea of developing a plan?
i-Hq2ci1ps7V16e6yekeBqrF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Jönsson! Let me first answer the first question. I think it is important to have a care about how the implementation should take place. There is no doubt about it. I think that the Swedish National Audit Office points to the shortcomings that have existed. I have also noted that the Finnish Transport Administration has corrected some of these shortcomings in the near future. I think this is important. Of course, I, too, am courted by the operators. Let us in the government continue a dialogue with them to see how implementation is to take place as painlessly as possible. This is particularly important for freight operators. As far as human resources are concerned, in my speech I myself mentioned the importance of managing the supply of skills. One aspect that is important to me is equality. We must target the entire population of Sweden in order to harness its power and capacity in order to be able to cope with all the investments we face. Another aspect is given. A lot of people have come to Sweden in recent years. There are people with experience in infrastructure construction from other parts of the world. It's a fantastic capacity. An important strategy is of course to ensure that many who have come to Sweden now also have the opportunity to build Sweden. There is a strong commitment and interest, I think. With the investments we make in knowledge transfer, university of applied sciences and higher education, I think we can be able to attract more people, not least the infrastructure industry. Then it is important that working conditions are good and that you have a good working environment. You have to attract with good career paths. There is also a need to consider what working conditions are offered to employees. I recently noted that at a major project the Swedish Transport Administration chose to cancel it because the work environment aspects were not properly taken into account. I think it's wise to do that. We must be clear about the fact that you have a responsibility for what reputation and status you have if you work in the infrastructure and transport industry. There we all have a common job to do.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1044	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. As far as Ertms is concerned, I believe that many companies are very critical of having to pay an incredible amount of money to equip their locomotives with the system. There are many complaints against Ertms, but I'm not sure you can see all the benefits of it. Like the Minister, we can note that comparing completely newly built ATC systems with Ertms makes a significant difference to Ertms's advantage. We see that delays are decreasing, but I am not entirely convinced that the train operators see it the same way. Actually, I think a big catch is the cost. The MP Magnus Jacobsson was previously aware that it is a problem for transport companies to equip their locomotives. I was going to ask the Minister the same question, because it is easy to forget to answer. Does the Minister mean that we should not give any money at all to the transport companies? We in the Swedish Democrats want operators to be fully paid for their Ertms on-board data. I think that operators would have taken a completely different approach if we had met them on this point. One of the reasons we want to pause is that there is a risk that we will be without vehicles if we build the Scanmed East Corridor with Ertms. At Malmbanan I think you can manage to fix this, because LKAB is very strong in capital. However, I see a risk with Scanmed Öst because so many operators are without on-board data. My question to the Minister is: are you willing to go to the companies and give them support to equip locomotives with Ertms?
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1048	Madam President, I would like I get recurring very many requests from operators who want on-board equipment paid for, from municipal councillors who want new infrastructure investments and from many others who think that the government should inject resources. All this I try, the government and those we negotiate with together when we take a stand in budget proposals or our budget. I am therefore not going to answer the question now. I know what the wishes are and I have a good dialogue with the operators. I see the challenge with Ertms, but I also see the challenge of being able to make a lot of other investments. I note that the Swedish Democrats rarely have that challenge, because such budgetary discipline does not always exist or they assume that the cost can be reduced in other areas. I found out that Patrik Jönsson has no further line, so I will therefore avoid being too polemic on the issue. For me, however, it is important that we keep track of what we promise. It is important that we are clear about how we use state resources. It is also important to put the goal first. It is again about the functionality of the rail system. We need to increase good capacity. This will be necessary, as the quantity of goods is increasing. We must ensure that we are able to implement new technologies as quickly as possible, but also ensure that it is able to maintain the right quality. In this, the Swedish National Audit Office's review report is an important basis. We will continue to discuss the implementation of Ertms. None of this would have been possible if it were not for us to spend EUR 100 billion more on the national infrastructure plan and thus make the greatest investment in rail in modern times. It feels safe to know.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1054	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning I am only calling for reservations 16 and 23. Madam President, I would like There has been a large increase in rail travel in recent times. There is also much talk about train travel and how to travel to Europe or the world with night trains, for example. When you look at the climate, it is positive to travel by rail, and many times it is also very easy to travel by train. Unfortunately, there has recently been a lot of focus on the problems around the railway: delays, cancellations of trains, signal errors, track failures, etc. On Monday we could read about the Paga trains and the irritation of passengers travelling in Skåne. Considering how good the construction Skånetrafiken has, it is surprising that there are so many vehicles on the motorway down to Malmö. You prefer to sit in traffic lanes rather than risk delayed or even cancelled trains. We must do something about this. So the will is to travel by train, but trains cannot be trusted to arrive on time. This causes a lot to work commuters, among other things. Skånetrafiken derives the problems to the infrastructure that is substandard and that the proportion of unauthorised people on the tracks has increased significantly. We know today that more people want to travel by train, but if the problems continue, there is a risk that rail traffic will lose passengers because it cannot be trusted that it will arrive on time. I myself always try to travel in very good time to cope with delays. To me, being late for a meeting is totally unacceptable. The problem for me is whether to ride the train that goes an hour earlier or even a day earlier to make time. When I went on the Öresund train towards Gothenburg we got five minutes before the train was in Halmstad told that it would be our final station due to track faults between Falkenberg and Varberg. The Öresund train had booked replacement buses but unfortunately did not get these confirmed. It was a great uncertainty. Time passed, and the next train arrived. There were as many people at the station as there were in an Olympic village. Imagine if there was a struggle for the buses when they showed up an hour and a half later to take us to Gothenburg! Madam President, I would like The railways are in great need of rehabilitation, and there is a great deal of investment in improving the railways. But it needs to be done smartly and quickly to keep the share of travellers. Building high-speed rail that is ready in 2070 is not what is needed. What we need is to optimise and expand today's railways. Build into double tracks and four tracks where needed. By building smart, you can double or quadruple your capacity on certain routes with relatively small means. New tracks are needed where passenger and freight traffic can be driven. We cannot afford to build new tracks solely for passenger traffic when we know that goods want to increase their share by rail. Madam President, I would like I was also going to take this opportunity to talk about cross-border traffic. I will focus on Europe even though rail to Norway and Finland is also important. It has not escaped anyone that Region Skåne wants a fixed connection between Helsingborg and Helsingör. I'm not saying no to that wish. However, I would like the government to review the possibility of creating a fixed rail link between Landskrona and Copenhagen. Landskrona has a good material for a so-called European track. However, it is intended as an extension of the Swedish negotiation's high-speed initiative. Looking closer at the European track, we see enormous benefits from a sub-tunnel between Landskrona and Copenhagen. Now that the Fehmarn Belt tunnel has been decided, freight traffic is expected to increase by 80%. We must not forget that commuting is expected to increase by about 50% only on the Öresund Bridge by 2030, something that the Öresund Bridge cannot cope with in terms of capacity. If you take this into account and byg provide tracks with a standard of 250 kilometres per hour, we can cope with increased volumes of passenger and freight traffic. Nor are we as vulnerable as we are today when we rely on the Öresund Bridge as the more or less only fixed link to Denmark and to the continent. To drive freight trains between Helsingborg and Helsingör I think will be difficult due to geography, and I find it hard to believe that the Danes see it as a good solution. However, I think you can build a pass for car traffic between Helsingborg and Helsingör. That would be a better solution. I would just like to say this once more now that we have the Minister for Infrastructure in the room: we are talking about an estimated 80% increase in rail traffic when the Fehmarn Belt - the tunnel opens. There is a lot of goods and night trains that can pass Denmark and Germany further into Europe. What we can learn, the maximum speed will be about 200 kilometers per hour in the Fehmarn Belt tunnel, and we can handle it galantly with 250 - kilometer trains. For the goods, the European track is the best route, but also the last small part of the Western main railway needs to be extended to double tracks so that the trains can travel smoothly from Norway, Mälardalen and Gothenburg down to Landskrona and out into Europe. Compared to Helsingborg – The Helsingör connection, the great advantage of a train tunnel between Landskrona and Copenhagen is that it can also be used for freight transport. Such a tunnel could work for both freight and commuter traffic. This would relieve the South Main Line and reduce truck traffic on the E6 through Skåne and act as redundancy if something happens on the Öresund Bridge. Madam President, I would like The need for travel will only increase all the time, and if we can do it with trains in a smooth and environmentally friendly way, it is a plus. We know that online trade is increasing and that freight volumes are expected to increase. Personally, I would have liked to have seen these volumes go to shipping, but when the Fehmarn Belt tunnel opens, a lot of volumes will go by train. I brought you an usb stick with information about the European track. Now the Minister disappeared, but I have to look him up afterwards so that he gets deeper knowledge of the European track, which is close to my heart. I hope that we will have a much better infrastructure in the future now that the Department of Infrastructure has been inaugurated. I also hope for a deeper view and knowledge.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1074	Madam President, I would like I say like Jimmy Ståhl: It was a shame the minister had time to leave. I also had something important to say to him. We are debating the report by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy on infrastructure issues. I have to start by really getting your colleagues to listen now. I understand it's not the best time this late at night, but I'll do my best. I have four minutes to lift the most important investment in infrastructure that affects not only eastern Norrbotten, but also connects an EEA country with two EU countries and North Asia. I am of course talking about exercise 2018/ 19:1280 which you must read and which I have written together with Linda Ylivainio from the Center Party. It addresses the importance of a interconnected Europe, and we argue that the government should work to ensure that the European Commission's proposal for a CEF regulation for a interconnected Europe for 2021 – 2027 will also enable a further railway expansion in Norrbotten in order to strengthen sustainable freight transport in the region. There was a mining company called Northland Resources that went bankrupt. It was the largest industrial failure in Sweden. 12 billion has been invested. The mine's up and running. That's great. The disadvantage today is that you drive by truck – 2 million tonnes of ore driven 150 km from the mine to Svappavaara. This kind of railway venture would connect Kolari in Finland with the Malmbanan in Svappavaara. You do not understand how important it would be for the region, but also for Europe, Norway, Finland and Russia. The future of Kaunis Iron is that they intend to increase their production to 4 million tonnes from today's 2 million tonnes when they open another line on the enrichment plant and mining on the side. This means that after that increase, every seven minutes, around the clock, every day of the year, there will be a truck of 90 tons. That is not reasonable today. This railway investment might cost more than two years' return from Telia to us, if I take an example. There are deposits in the region. There are deposits of over 1 billion tonnes of which 950 million tonnes of crude ore are known. Then I'm sure there's another unknown. This effort would make additional deposits worth breaking. It's really important. The belt also extends on the Finnish side. There are deposits there. The Finns and Norwegians are in favour of this. That's a win. The Norwegians say that if it becomes a reality, they can transport salmon in three days to North Asia. Today it takes six weeks by boat, or you drive by truck. Those who support the initiative are, of course, the county boards in Norrbotten, the municipalities and the chambers of commerce in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. The major companies are, of course, important in the future. LKAB, Boliden and the forest companies say so. The port of Narvik and Finnish municipalities say the same thing. All of these could benefit from it, and of course the forest companies. Please read the motion. The only thing I can do is try to get you to understand how important that venture is. Let us not miss the opportunity to reduce emissions radically. That's what it's all about. At the same time, we are giving a whole region a sustainable future. You can think what you want. But the base industry would become the engine, the deposits would be very breakable between these places and they would be linked together with North Asia. Thank you for giving me the four-minute speaking time at least. There's nothing else I can do.
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1110	The EU's view of Romania's action
i-6cd5ddcb25ae0b34-1113	Balkan countries as potential EU Member States
