i-b286276d01c3b855-2	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me why women soldiers' clothing needs are not met, such as approved suitable underwear, and what measures I and the government are taking to ensure that even women soldiers have access to approved and adequate equipment. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked me how I and the government intend to work, in addition to the fundamental question of the possibilities for adequate equipment, to increase equality in defence. The gender neutral military service that was activated in 2017 allows for an increase in the proportion of women in the Swedish Armed Forces. This, in turn, is a prerequisite for greater equality in defence. Women in military defence shall have the same opportunities as men to be successful in their task and have access to safe and adequate equipment. The Government has given the Swedish Armed Forces a clear mandate to increase gender equality within the agency and to take measures to increase the number of women at all levels of the organisation. I note that the Swedish Armed Forces are engaged in targeted and structured work to increase gender equality within the agency. It is the task of the Swedish Armed Forces to ensure that all personnel have adequate equipment. I know there have been many positive developments, and I will continue to follow the matter.
i-b286276d01c3b855-7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. However, I must start by saying that just because Sweden has a gender-neutral military service, it does not mean that the Swedish Armed Forces are automatically equal. The fact that there are no good clothes for women within the Swedish Armed Forces is by no means a new question, I understand. I have even been told that clothing for women within the Swedish Armed Forces has been a problem since 1980. That's when I was six. Madam President, I would like This is a lengthy problem, and I really cannot understand why it is a problem. I think that in the rest of society it's pretty easy to find clothes for both men and women. Nevertheless, I have understood, and I have been told from many different quarters, that there has been talk of a way forward for a long time, but in some places the problem has been waved away as a petitess. In some unit, a report was written that was passed on to FMV, where they finally received a response that was perceived as negligent and reducing. For example, the wording of the answer suggests that for fashion reasons women choose too large or too small a size of personal equipment and that this creates problems. The answer basically says that many views are correct and well known but that the economy is limited and that it costs to keep more sizes. We do not know what effect that report has had on women in that unit, but they have not noticed anything in the business. Madam President, I would like During my short year in the Defence Committee, I have met people in different positions within the Swedish Armed Forces and talked about the issue of a uniform adapted to women as well. All in all, I can say that they are frustrated and feel questioned. There are seemingly simple measures that can be taken and marginal investments that can be made relative to the Swedish Armed Forces' budget, yet the problem cannot be solved – after 30 years. Madam President, I would like When I was able to visit our operation in Mali during the summer, I learned that the only approved bra available was made of merino wool. I think that is really nice during the winter in Arvidsjaur, but it was nothing that I myself prioritised in my packing. The bra is also said to be so poorly adapted that if it is to give any support at all, it needs to be so tight that you need a dresser to pull it over your head. During various visits around Sweden, I have asked about the issue of uniforms. The problem is that women experience irritation and physical injuries from boots of the wrong size, wrong fit on helmets, body protection, field jacket, trousers, sweaters, long underwear, panties and so on. The equipment causes trouble and is a safety risk in everyday life. Sometimes women write a report and submit, but confidence in a change to happen is small. In some cases, women have been re-stitched, but this requires very much that individuals stand up. Unfortunately, there is now a tone of acceptance and resignation in relation to material shortages in women. Seriously, Madam President, how difficult is it to get good and suitable clothes in different shapes and sizes? And why does the government not take responsibility for the matter? Or is it not for a feminist government to ensure that both women and men have the same conditions to defend our country?
i-b286276d01c3b855-18	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to point out that the reintroduction of universal military service after the marginal abolition of it by the bourgeois majority – made it dormant – at one time is one thing that helps to create a platform for greater equality and for more women in defence. On average, it is 15.5 per cent who are women who enter basic education with compulsory military service compared with previously 12%. Today there is an article in the South East about the Navy's military service hill of 235 people in Karlskrona. We can note that about 20% are women. Compulsory service creates opportunities for more women in the Swedish Armed Forces. I would also like to remind you of the Swedish Armed Forces' action plan for gender mainstreaming 2015– 2018. There are steering and follow-up mechanisms, training, action on the physical working environment and the usefulness of defence equipment. The action plan is an important part of the government dialogue from the Ministry with the Swedish Armed Forces, so the questions are not forgotten. In terms of concrete deliveries, I can mention current volumes in August 2019 when it comes to personal equipment for women. In the case of exercise clothes with kit that includes trousers, jacket, shorts, swimsuit, T-shirt and sports bra there are 2 900 kits. Pregnant shirts, 420. Boxer-model Trousers, known within the Swedish Armed Forces as Long Roses, 8,000 pairs. Long underpants for women, 3,240 couples. Bras for military use, 5 072. Knee butts, unknown number. In addition, there are march boots in several variants, 20,000 pairs. The new panty of boxer models has, reportedly, been procured in tens of thousands of copies, and there are plenty of them in the unit stores. For merino wool, unlike synthetic materials, there is better flame safety and otherwise better properties from a safety and hygiene point of view. The product that has been purchased is called Icebreaker and is of high quality, according to FMV. At present, there is no available civilian product that meets safety requirements and would counteract the poor comfort of use in desert climates. However, this specification is available for the new Nordic uniform system under development. It is thus Nordic Combat Uniform, which will be the subject of procurement in 2020. Tests are planned in all four countries for Nordic Combat Uniform, and in Sweden the selected organisational units are: I 19, Lv 6, Amf 1, F 17, Trängregementet and K 3. I do not agree that this is an issue that the Swedish Armed Forces are not working on. I agree that there is a great deal more to be done, but I see that things are being done and something is being done. From the Department's side, we will follow that trend. I would also like to emphasise that it is the task of the Swedish Armed Forces to provide personnel with appropriate equipment, uniforms and personal equipment. That responsibility is therefore ultimately a responsibility of authority. However, we have clear directives on this on the part of the department.
i-b286276d01c3b855-26	Madam President, I would like Plans in all honor, but if there isn't any of them, they're not much to have. I'm sure some things are harder to get than others. I understand that. But we've managed to land on the moon... quite a long time ago. Yet in Sweden 2019 we have body protection with side plates and breast plates that do not fit on a woman if she has hips and breasts. Most women do. The side plates chafing the hips and breastplates are not shaped after breasts, which makes it difficult to wear them. The ability to breathe, drive vehicles, move and operate is reduced, which means that fighting ability is reduced. FOI's report Career barriers for military women talks about how military women face other barriers to their careers than men. H is the matter of materials one point. Material for women needs to be prioritised based on actual problems. So it is not a question of whining at appearances, but of health and safety risks. The necessary measures need to be taken to prevent the exposure of employees and obliged women to these risks. Madam President, I would like If the feminist government lacks knowledge about existing material-related health and safety risks for women, I can tell you that there are lots of wise, non-wailing women and men in place in our businesses who are happy to share their experiences – free of charge. Otherwise, you can set up an investigation. Madam President, I would like In my interpellation I have asked a number of questions, but I feel that I have received answers. Why, after so many years of trouble, are the needs of female soldiers not met, among other things, by approved suitable underwear? The Minister of Defence refers to the Swedish Armed Forces, Madam Speaker. A clarification for the audience we have in here and surely also on television: The Swedish Armed Forces is led by a commander-in-chief who in turn ranks under the Ministry of Defence. After all, the Minister for Defence is head of the Ministry of Defence, which in turn is responsible for Sweden's military defence and its support authorities. The highest responsible must therefore be the Secretary of Defense.
i-b286276d01c3b855-34	Madam President, I would like I have never spoken of any whiny comments or irrelevant points of view, so I think that part of the debate can be removed immediately. I also think that the insinuation that this is not taken seriously can be removed, at least with regard to the government and the political side. As I said, in the government dialogue we have been clear about these things. There is also a defence-power action plan for gender mainstreaming, where this work is ongoing. I have talked to the ÖB about such matters on several occasions, and what I face is respect for these issues. Then you can always discuss what is real and what is not. I listed here, quite specifically, exercise clothes, boxer panties, long underwear for women, bras for military use, knee socks and so on. These are the things that are delivered. The facts are real. The work on the Nordic uniform is also real facts that are going on. So just talking like nothing's going on, I don't think I'm giving a good picture of it all. The views and criticisms that have existed have been well sought within the Swedish Armed Forces. I also think it is a good thing that, by reintroducing universal military service, we can now see an increase in the proportion of women entering the Armed Forces and that the proportion of women serving in the conscription organisation, but also gradually as officers, can be gradually increased. So a great deal has been done, but it is not that we can be satisfied and think that everything is to the full. We shall, of course, move on in this. Other things you need to take into account are that we from the Swedish side have worked for a long time with UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. We are also responsible for a Nordic Centre for Gender Perspectives in military operations, where we both in Sweden and internationally educate on such issues and have received very good reputation in different contexts. I think it is important to take into account gender perspective and integrate gender equality into thinking when making operational capacity in units more efficient. It is important to re ect and retain women in the Förvarsmakten. In this context, I see general conscription – which your party, Alexandra Anstrell, once pushed through that it would be dormant – as an extremely important instrument. From my perspective, the Swedish Armed Forces are working on the issue, but we have some other things that need to be carried out and done. We're not in any way done yet, but the process is underway. Orders and deliveries have taken place, and work on this will continue.
i-b286276d01c3b855-43	Madam President, I would like A woman in the Armed Forces today has said that a woman can fight in her position with all these flaws is a miracle. Not having protective equipment adapted to fit soldiers with breasts is troubling. In a war situation, women will ignore body protection, which means a higher risk – at worst with a fatal outcome. Another woman has said: If you are serious about wanting more girls in the Armed Forces, you have to develop equipment that allows us to perform on equal terms. It must be made clear that women are as welcome as men. Today, unfortunately, the equipment signals something else. I quote a third: that today, 2019, there is still a lack of equipment so that the Swedish soldier and sailor can carry out their duties – to defend our nation and its inhabitants – properly speak their own language for the purpose. When there is not even underwear that fits, how can you expect more difficult and complex things than panties to work for a woman in the Swedish Armed Forces? Madam President, I would like Gender equality work within the Swedish Armed Forces is important, but if it does not become real, it is not important. Basic is the ability to have good, suitable equipment, such as clothes and shoes, that suit differences – and even when you are pregnant. Several other obstacles to increased gender equality are mentioned in FOI's report Career barriers for military women. There is simply a lot left to do. Then, Madam President, I think that a government – whether it claims to be feminist or not – should take more responsibility than it does now, when it merely refers to the fact that military service is gender neutral and that the Armed Forces are responsible. It's nothing but bad leadership.
i-b286276d01c3b855-48	Madam President, I would like Not only have I referred to general military service, but I have presented a number of other measures here. But I see universal service as an important instrument in this context. You may not have any interest in describing it, but I think it is important and I see that it has a real effect. Nor have I said that it is problem-free when it comes to materials and such things. But I have stated here that some things have been done. You mentioned pregnant shirts. I have said twice that pregnant shirts are something that has been ordered – 420 copies. Do not ignore what is being done, and do not paint the picture that nothing is happening! Things are happening in a positive direction, but that is not enough. I do not think it makes much money simply to give a clear negative picture of the state of things. Look at this nuanced! It tries to work on the issue, but it has not yet come all the way. We are trying to engage in dialogue with the Armed Forces. We have a gender mainstreaming plan. This work continues and will need to continue for the foreseeable future. It is not something that will be resolved with immediate effect at any specific time. It is also about attitudes and behaviour in everyday life. At a workplace with many people, attitudes can last a long time, especially if there are traditions in this context. But I perceive the Armed Forces' leadership as seriously interested and seriously involved in this. They really want to improve the situation. I keep them count for that, and I hope that they will do so in Parliament as well.
i-b286276d01c3b855-52	Madam President, I would like Mikael Damsgaard has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that a future change in the cost equalisation of the regions takes better account of the risk of ill-health in the population and how I and the government intend to compensate the municipalities and regions adversely affected by the proposal for new cost equalisation. It is almost ten years since the last revision of the cost compensation system for municipalities and county councils. Several of the data and calculations underlying the cost adjustment are therefore old. The cost compensation investigation's proposal entails continuous updates and some changes to the system. The updates and changes aim to ensure that the system takes greater account of structural differences between municipalities and between county councils. With regard to the health care sub-model within cost equalisation for county councils, the investigation proposes some changes and simplification. Most of the consultation bodies that have expressed their views on the proposal are in favour of this. It is proposed to add a variable for educational background to the sub-model as the level of education has a strong link to public health and thus to care needs and costs. Other amendments are also proposed, such as updating the compensation for additional costs of care in sparsely populated areas. The assessment is that the proposed changes will lead to greater account being taken of structural factors affecting healthcare needs and costs, including differences in ill health, but also of other factors such as sparseness. This will create more equal conditions for the country's municipalities and county councils. The Government considers it important that an updated system can enter into force by 2020. The changes in cost compensation will mean much-needed additions for many municipalities and county councils. At the same time, the changes have negative effects on others. In order for the municipalities and county councils that are adversely affected by the changes to be given the opportunity to change and adapt, so-called introduction grants are proposed, which means that the effects of the changes are gradually passed. In the legislative referral the government has decided on the introduction period is also extended compared to the investigation's proposal so that there is more time for conversion. The proposed updates and changes to cost compensation are an important measure to create good and equal economic conditions for municipalities and county councils. At the same time, the government is working to strengthen all municipalities and county councils, for example by strengthening state grants.
i-b286276d01c3b855-59	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Cost equalisation plays an important role in smoothing structural disparities between the municipalities and regions of the country. However, in order for the equalisation systems to be perceived as legitimate, it is important that they are transparent and that the accuracy is good. In its final report, the cost equalisation inquiry proposes changes which, if implemented, mean major changes for municipalities and regions around Sweden. I have put this interpellation on the grounds that the government has announced a new cost-balancing system, which will enter into force in the short term as early as next year. In my county of Västmanland, the level of education is lower and the health rate is higher than for the country on average. In addition, there are only four counties in the country where unemployment is higher than in Västmanland. Despite this, Västmanland County becomes one of the biggest losers through the investigation's proposal. All in all, if the proposal is implemented, the average number of Westerners loses nearly SEK 1 000 per inhabitant per year. This corresponds to the cost of 400 to 500 teachers in Västmanland. The big losers are Västerås city, but also R egion Västmanland. Region Västmanland loses through the changes that the investigation proposes 801 SEK per inhabitant. In fact, it is more than any other region in the country. This means that Region Västmanland needs to save an additional SEK 214 million due to the changes in cost compensation, despite increasing healthcare needs among the population, large investment needs and existing savings. Within the county councils, the index CNI, care n eed idex, is well established and used to measure the risk of ill health in the population. CNI is also used to allocate resources to family clinics and health centres in many regions of the country. According to this index, the risk of ill-health among the population is second highest in Västmanland of all the regions of the country. In spite of this, Region Västmanland will be net contributors to the cost adjustment and the biggest loser as a result of proposed changes. I would therefore like to ask the Government on what grounds it believes that the study's proposals for calculating the health care needs of the population respond better to the needs of the regions than the index used by the regions to measure precisely the risk of ill-health in the population.
i-b286276d01c3b855-67	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Damsgaard, for this important question. The Government has decided to proceed with the investigation's proposal because, like a clear majority of the consultation bodies, we see the need for strengthened and updated equalization to keep Sweden together. All Swedish citizens have the right to equal welfare, health care, care for the elderly and high quality school, regardless of where they live in the country. Within the framework of the municipal self-government, municipalities and regions run health care and other welfare services. If we are to achieve this equivalence, we need an active levelling-up so that those municipalities and regions with a more favourable structure can share with those municipalities and regions which, for structural reasons, have a less favourable structure and higher costs. One of the reasons why we choose to proceed with this proposal and also reinforce some of the conclusions drawn by the investigation is that we need to remove the factors that can be affected. This system should be based on factors that cannot be influenced for municipalities and regions – the structures of a population. It is worrying that, at the present time, the levelling-up system does not take sufficient account of the sparse factor. It is more expensive to run healthcare in Jämtland Härjedalen, with the geographical conditions prevailing there and the sparse population base, than in other regions where we have more densely populated structures. Then a redistribution must take place, because otherwise we do not get an equivalent health care in Jämtland Härjedalen, Norrbotten or other parts of the country where we have a strong sparsely populated structure. That is why we have chosen to move on with this. Having said that, however, Mikael Damsgaard is right. Västmanland is an important part of our country. The citizens of Västmanland have the same right to healthcare as those in the rest of Sweden. Therefore, the change in cost compensation must take place in such a way that R egion Västmanland is given the opportunity to adjust. The change must also take place as we increase the general and targeted state subsidies to the Region of Västmanland. Therefore, we chose to change and adjust the investigation's proposal so that we lower the ceiling for change, from SEK 300 to SEK 250 per municipality and per inhabitant, so that the introduction period will be longer and Region Västmanland will be better able to adjust and coordinate this with growing revenue from state grants. It is quite right that Mikael Damsgaard says: We must take this into account – and it has been taken into account. Of course, this will be implemented in a way that also gives Region Västmanland a good opportunity to carry out a very high-quality health service.
i-b286276d01c3b855-75	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Civil Affairs says that the proposal should take better account of the additional costs caused by a sparse population than it is today. However, it appears from the legislative referral that several consultation bodies are critical of precisely the formulation of the sparse component of the proposal. For example, the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting points out that the calculation model is not transparent and is based mainly on 20-year-old assumptions. Among other things, SKL points out that no empirical analysis has been made of how costly sparseness is. As far as my question of compensation for the municipalities and regions affected by the change is concerned, I note from the Government's response that compensation is made during a period of introduction, but then the regions that lose out on this themselves bear the full cost. Many regions and municipalities, large and small, have a strained economic situation largely due to a failed migration and integration policy combined with demographic challenges. In many municipalities the costs of social services run smoothly. The school's mission is becoming increasingly difficult, and the responsibility for creating security in streets and squares has increasingly been handed over to the municipalities. The government now wants to force the introduction of a new proposal to meet the strained situation of regions and municipalities rather than take seriously responsibility for the problems that exist in many municipalities and regions. Several consultation bodies are also critical of the forced timetable. For example, the Statistical Office in its referral was of the opinion that the changes can be implemented at the earliest in 2021 if the agency is to be able to assure the quality of the calculations. A prerequisite for municipalities and regions to be able to assume their responsibility for welfare is that planning conditions are predictable. The legislative referral contains no estimates of how the proposal hits individual municipalities and regions. The rapid introduction thus makes it difficult for municipalities and regions to take responsibility for their tasks.
i-b286276d01c3b855-81	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that it is important to stick to the truth in debates such as this and not to use upper words. You must not be drawn into the current trend in social media where things are being exaggerated. This is a very strong word, given that we are following the investigation's proposals. The investigation was set up by the government and had a parliamentary foundation with a parliamentary reference group in which the Moderate Party also had a representative. Under the leadership of investigator Håkan Sörman, it was concluded that the change would enter into force on 1 January 2020. The investigation has been referred in accordance with the Swedish Constitution. We have taken into account the referral points and will soon be putting forward a proposal that simply follows the investigation's schedule and proposals. That's how we work in Swedish administration, and that's how it should be in Swedish administration. It's not about a rush. Forcering is when the Riksdag decides to reduce the budget of the Employment Service with a few weeks' notice. It is not a question of forced action when following a parliamentary process for dealing with legislative proposals in our country. Why, then, do we stick to the timetable of the investigation? Well, for the simple reason that the situation in Swedish sparsely populated areas is acute. We have been talking for a long time about the structural changes in the effects of urbanisation, the effects of an ageing population and how this affects sparsely populated regions. Now we're standing there. The Region Jämtland Härjedalen is now facing these challenges. Now there are these challenges on Gotland and in more sparsely populated regions. Then the government can either sit and watch and accept that the regional divides are increasing, that the divides between country and city are increasing and that Sweden is going the way that many other Western European countries have gone, or the government and parliament can act to equalize the differences between country and city. Then it is also reasonable for us to consider sparseness much more when allocating resources in our country. On the basis of the current conditions of sparsely populated regions, it is not possible to offer citizens an equivalent level of health care. Because it is incredibly much more expensive to carry out healthcare in sparsely populated areas. And then we have to act. Therefore, in ordinary Swedish order, we have a proper investigation with a very experienced investigator, a parliamentary anchoring of the investigation work, a consultation session, a legislative procedure and now an opportunity for the Riksdag to look at the issue. Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise one thing. We in the government see a great need to compensate all municipalities and county councils for the growing expenditure of demographic development. We will increase the state contribution to Region Västmanland as well as to all regions and municipalities in our country. We will increase the targeted state subsidies to the specific initiatives needed in the areas of health care. We will also increase general state subsidies. Well-being costs. Well-being must cost. This government will never fail the welfare. Well, well-being comes first for us. We would never, Madam President, change the models of equalisation between the municipalities and county councils of the country without at the same time increasing state subsidies so that municipalities and county councils actually have more resources to spend on welfare. I can guarantee Mikael Damsgaard that there will be compensation for all municipalities, including Region Västmanland and Västmanland municipalities.
i-b286276d01c3b855-91	Madam President, I would like I put this interpellation on account of the fact that the Westerners become some of the biggest losers through the new proposal for cost equalisation. This is despite lower levels of education, higher levels of ill health and higher unemployment than for the country on average. According to the index used in the county council sector to measure the risk of ill health, Västmanland has the second highest risk in the whole country of ill health. I believe that we agree that a well-functioning cost adjustment is important in order to create a more level playing field across the country. However, changes in the cost equalisation system cannot compensate for failures in other policy areas. It is also important that a levelling-up system, even if it is not liked by everyone, is nevertheless tolerated and perceived as legitimate by the whole sector. The current proposal has several shortcomings, which I have highlighted in previous speeches. That is why I believe that the change is being pushed forward. This risks, in the long term, the legitimacy of the whole system of equalisation. Here it would have been preferable for important questions raised by consultation bodies to be clarified and for municipalities and regions to be given the opportunity for a better foresight in their planning. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Civil Affairs for a good and interesting discussion on the cost compensation. Continued.
i-b286276d01c3b855-96	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to Mikael Damsgaard for his commitment to the issues relating to the municipal sector and to this debate. The more members of parliament who are involved in the reality and development of the municipal sector, the better the conditions for the Swedish state to provide the municipalities with the opportunities needed for us to have equal welfare throughout the country. We need more of these debates in this House. Everyone's a winner at this. Everyone in Sweden, all municipalities and all regions, is the winner of an up-to-date and strengthened levelling. Sweden is a country that should stick together. One of Sweden's most important assets is the fact that we have managed to keep away too large gaps, both social and regional. Now, however, we have a development behind us where the regional divides have grown, and if we do nothing, this will increase in the future. This has happened because of demographic change and because we have a very strong urbanisation. The state now requires very active measures to keep Sweden together and to reduce regional disparities. The levelling-up is part of this, but it will not be enough. I want to be very clear about this in this House so that it is also in the Minutes. It will not be enough to offset costs. It is an important and necessary change, but from the state it will take much more to hold back the kind of development that we have seen in other parts of the Western world where the gaps are growing regionally. In Sweden we can keep society together. We have the conditions for this, if we help each other and put equivalence first and if we go back to what is laid down in the Constitution and other laws, where we do not make a distinction between citizens. We must state that all citizens, wherever they live, have the right to equal welfare. If we have this as our watchword, we will also succeed in maintaining the equivalence of welfare and hence the cohesion of society.
