i-849cb925bbc5e67d-0	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me when I intend to set up the investigation to review the rules for security officers and when a change of legislation may be in place. As David Josefsson points out, the rules for security officers are obsolete. This is why the government has taken the initiative to set up an investigation to review the regulatory framework. The investigation will, among other things, look at how the rules of the security officer's appointment should be designed and where security officers should be able to serve. However, the regulatory framework also needs to be reviewed in several other respects. A thorough and comprehensive review of the entire regulatory framework is therefore to be carried out. Important issues that also need to be investigated are, for example, what powers and concrete tasks a security guard should have and what requirements for training and fitness should be placed on a security officer. The Committee Directives are being prepared within the Government Office, and the investigation will be completed shortly. It is too early to say something about when new legislation may be in place.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I believe that everyone agrees that the current legislation on security officers has passed the lead date. I also believe that everyone agrees that security guards are not a good solution for replacing police officers. But I also believe that we agree that security guards are both a necessary complement and, properly used, a good complement to the police. Madam President, I would like The Government Mikael Damberg has several times said – only in March this year and most recently when the government presented its measures against the gang problem – that it should set up an investigation to review the legislation. Last spring, it was said that the investigation was due after the summer. Then it would be added in the autumn, and now it will be added soon. But the problems are acute. Current legislation, above all, is very different depending on how the police choose to interpret the law in different municipalities. Today there are about 80 municipal security officers in Stockholm. By the end of the year they are estimated to have increased to 100. It has gone from 14 so-called LOV 3 areas to 25. It is reported that another 13 areas for preparation are located in the police. At the same time, the municipality in Gothenburg has applied for four clearly defined but coherent LOV 3 areas within a few hundred meters radius. It is about Brunnsparken, Gustav Adolf torg, Kanaltorget and Kronhusparken. I come from Gothenburg and had my workplace in this area for five years before I entered the Riksdag. I myself have called the police about everything from gang fights to drug dealings that have been done openly. The police are trying to curb this, but the resources are not enough to give priority to organised crime. The City of Gothenburg has worked with security-building measures. At the moment, for example, a major reconstruction of Brunnsparken is taking place. But these measures are not enough. Therefore, the city has applied for a LOV 3 permit but has been refused from police and administrative law. The case is now pending before the Administrative Court of Appeal. At the same time, the chief police officer in Gothenburg in the media himself has stated that he would have liked to have received the support of security officers with a change of legislation. It is therefore only a question of the interpretation of legislation, not that the police are generally opposed to the use of security guards. As the Government states, Madam President, there is a need for reformed legislation. The police highlight the need for support and relief. Now it is said that the investigation will be set up shortly but also that it is too early to say when new legislation may be in place. I must therefore ask whether the government has any ambitions as to when legislation could be in place.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-11	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for an important interpellation! Today we have major security problems in society. The main focus now for large parts of the House is to expand the police. It is the core of the security and law enforcement work in Sweden, and should be so. But as a complement, security officers have a role to play and do so already today in many municipalities around Sweden. It is clear, however, that the regulatory framework is out of date. Unfortunately, it has been far too long before the regulatory framework has been properly updated. A number of regulatory investigations have been carried out, but no major changes have taken place in a very long time. Now there will be a major investigation of the entire regulatory framework. It's very hard to break out just a few. Just look at, for example, the question of where guards should be and be able to be. We have the whole LOV 3 problem, which many municipalities with me raise. Gothenburg is not alone in this problem. The question is also about what serious crime can be found in the area. What are the tasks involved when you have a LOV 3 assignment? This must be reflected in the level of education of security guards so that we do not expose them to something they are not trained for or able to handle. The general debate sometimes makes a connection between gang criminality and security guards. I am a little worried about such a debate. Guards can play a role in providing security and crime prevention, but they can also be at the intersection of being a relief for the police. I believe that there are tasks that the police are obliged to do today, but where, with a changed regulatory framework and discussions on powers and training, it may be possible to conclude that security officers can relieve the police in these. It would actually get a greater exchange against gang crime or other. This means that you should look at many parts. You also have to look at police control over the operation. It'll be a package. It is difficult to break out a very small part of this if you want the regulatory framework to work. I have been made aware of the situation in Gothenburg. I have both heard about it when I have been on site in Gothenburg and have followed it through newspapers. Now that this is a court case, it gets a little tricky. I should not comment on this. When you have these needs, as Gothenburg has, it is incredibly important that you are wise enough to try to find an appropriate balance between how to define areas with current regulations and to find sufficient reasons for it. I really hope that somehow it will work out for Gothenburg. I understand that they are entering a new round of investigations to look at other areas. I follow it very closely and think that this is a reason for our investigation to be set up. Basically, I fully share the picture that David Josefsson gives of the problem. To say a lot of things is better than to say it after the summer. In the near future, it means that we are in the final phase of being able to decide on this. When we do, we'll have to nail investigation time. Then you can figure out how long it can take. This is also based on the fact that the investigation is solid and well worked out. It contains some fundamental questions, not least regarding the monopoly of violence in society and citizens' expectations that some people have the right to exercise authority in Sweden. Today it is clear that the police are the main player in this responsibility. It is therefore based on the fact that the investigation comes up with solid results that in turn lead to a smooth process through the Law Council and in the design of a new proposal. I would like to reassure David Josefsson and assure him that I too am anxious to bring about change. I see that the regulatory framework is outdated and needs to be developed and therefore have no interest in this taking longer than necessary.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-21	Madam President, I would like I'm pretty calm. That's not the big problem. Just as the Government says, we should not discuss Gothenburg in substance because there is a legal process going on, but the example is illustrating when it comes to how different laws are interpreted. In Gothenburg, applications have been made that are very limited and still received no. In other municipalities there have been generously extended areas and received yes. This is part of the problem. Just as the Government is on the subject, Madam President, it is about the monopoly of violence. Now we have a situation in which the monopoly of violence is outsourced in some places and not in others, and it is done in a rather unregulated way. That is precisely why I think it is important to bring this legislation into line. Just as the Government is concerned, it is not just about the LOV 3 problem. It's about a lot more things. For example, you should look at whether the police themselves should be able to hire security guards. That is what the chief of police in Storgöteborg is calling for. It is not a matter of municipal security guards, but of the police being able to use the security guards themselves as a support in their work, for example for transporting detainees, guarding the prisoners who are in hospital and doing security work in streets and squares. I think it is positive that the Government is saying that these things should be included in the investigation. I also think it is important to look at the LOV 3 problem and – as the Government highlights – look at the security training. It is also a paradox that exists in legislation today – guardians, who actually have no other legal powers than everyone has, have a longer education than the security guards have. This has had the effect that many guarding companies demand that they first go to security training and work as security officers for a while and then become security guards. But that is something that the industry has done and nothing that the legislation says. It is great to say that you want legislation and that it will come soon. But it is important that it actually comes shortly. Now we need an investigation directive. Legislation should never be rushed forward, but this is an acute problem, and it is important that we get legislation in place soon. I hope we take these recordings with us in the further investigation. As I said, it is important that new legislation can be in place early.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-28	Madam President, I would like This is an interpellation debate in which we are very much in agreement. We agree that there must be a broad investigation looking at more parts than just the LOV 3 issue, although it is acute for many municipalities. It is about the relief of the police in several areas, about the duration of the training and about the powers of security officers. It is therefore a broad investigation, and it will be set up shortly. I am absolutely sure that we will return. It's nice to feel that in a question like this everyone wants an investigation: the police, unions, municipalities and the industry. When I meet all these different actors, for once they say the same thing to me. This suggests that an investigation can land in a proposal which hopefully has quite broad support, although there are some important balances to be struck in principle.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-30	Madam President, I would like As I stated in my introduction, I think we all agree on the need for new legislation. If you're being a little critical, you can say that this unfortunately follows a bit of a pattern with the government; you're sometimes rather slow to conclude that a review is even needed, and you're going to set up the investigation. I very much hope that the pattern is not followed by being late in delivering concrete proposals. As the Government says, everyone feels the need for new legislation: all those who work as security guards, all those who work in the police with security matters and all municipal politicians who try to take steps to overcome insecurity in streets and squares. With that, I would like to thank both the President and the Government for a good debate. I hope for swift and resolute action from the government.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-32	Madam President, I would like The announcement is that the investigation will be completed shortly. I don't want to go into a polemic. I think all parties can be a little self-critical that this regulatory framework has not been reviewed since 1980. It's been a while. There have been many governments of different colors during that time. I will be the Minister of the Interior who is launching and conducting the largest comprehensive investigation of this acquis since 1980. This is something that is needed. I am pleased that there seems to be broad political agreement on the breadth of the mission's nature, but also that there are urgent changes to the regulatory framework.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-33	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me what measures I intend to take to facilitate the recruitment of part-time firefighters, what measures I intend to take to ensure that emergency preparedness is carried out effectively and safely and what measures I intend to take to ensure that people living in Sweden are guaranteed that the public contract works and that emergency preparedness is equipped. It is of great importance that Sweden has good preparedness and ability to carry out effective rescue operations in the event of large-scale fires and other accidents. The civil protection services of the municipalities, together with the stakeholders, carried out great efforts to extinguish last summer's forest fires. At the same time, the management of events showed that there are areas to develop for a more effective civil protection capability in the future. According to the Accident Protection Act, the municipality is responsible for civil protection activities within the municipality. The municipalities have taken several measures following last summer's forest fires to strengthen their preparedness and ability to effectively manage large-scale rescue operations. For example, measures have been taken to quickly gather together in collaboration with other municipalities in the event of large-scale fires and other accidents. The availability of emergency resources that can quickly be in place and start a rescue operation is crucial for effective and safe response. It is therefore of great importance that municipalities are given good opportunities to support their civil protection activities. In order to strengthen the state's supporting capacity for large-scale rescue operations, MSB has received SEK 65 million in 2019 and SEK 15 million annually from 2020. MSB has therefore been able to improve its ability to assist municipalities with support resources, such as ground and air extinguishing resources in the event of extensive fires. In addition, MSB has been added SEK 34 million in 2018 and an additional SEK 36 million in 2019 for its educational activities in order to better meet the needs of civil protection. The 2017 Civil Protection Investigation and the 2018 Forest Fire Investigation have made several important proposals to ensure that municipal civil protection can be conducted in a more equivalent, efficient and safe way throughout the country. The proposals basically aim to enable municipalities' civil protection services to carry out rapid and effective rescue operations in close collaboration. A number of the proposals concern the local authorities' ability to provide civil protection services. Preparation of the investigation proposals is under way in the Government Office. The government has thus taken a series of measures to improve society's preparedness and ability to deal with large-scale fires and other accidents in both the short and long term. The government will continue to monitor closely the development of society's overall civil protection capabilities and will take the necessary steps if necessary. At the same time, it is of great importance that the municipalities themselves take the necessary measures to ensure an effective civil protection service throughout the country.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-40	Madam President, I would like 112 - I need help! That's what it sounds like when 10,000 people call SOS Alarm's phone every day. There are 10,000 people every day in need of our bluelight staff, and it is our bluelight staff who will give us the security we need. This requires that we have the resources to give our citizens that security. But that is not how reality looks all the time. In 2018, there were about 10,000 part-time firefighters in Sweden. As the country looks, with 290 municipalities, there are more or fewer emergency services both full-time and part-time around the country. There are quite a few people involved in the emergency services. Access to and the possibility of recruiting part-time firefighters depends on a variety of factors. It has to do with working schedules and improvements in the staff situation. Today, more than 70% of the country's stations have no staff. There is a shortage of trained rescuers and supervisors. In particular, there is a shortage of staff able to drive heavy goods vehicles. Staff turnover is high, leading to high training costs and lower skills. Madam President, I would like Why, then, is it so difficult to recruit? I agree with the Government that this is a municipal matter. But it is such a serious matter that I think that everyone must help to find a good solution. The issue is complex. One explanation is that people work to a greater extent in a place other than that in which they live. Another is that leisure time is valued higher today. One explanation given to me when I've been out visiting emergency services is – it sounds a little strange – that low interest rates and low unemployment mean that people manage their finances in a completely different way and do not have to commit themselves to being firemen on a part-time basis. It is also an obstacle that a person who is a job seeker cannot be a part-time firefighter because he loses his full unemployment benefit if he calls out for an hour. In my world, it's an unreasonable equation. It is also difficult to justify that all exercises for part-time firefighters should take place in their own free time. Therefore, I see that the Government, together with our municipalities, has a challenge to solve. I can imagine that we share the view that this is a major challenge that we must help to solve.
i-PP5Jf41qSapdXeGe27YH3Q	Madam President, I would like Thank you, interpellant, for an important interpellation! We saw last year how strained the situation was. The evaluation shows that large parts of the emergency services and other volunteers made huge efforts. We also received international assistance in a way that we have not had before, which was good. It helped us to deal with the situation. But it showed that there are weaknesses in the organization. It is in the municipal emergency services that the basis of the operation must be dimensioned and planned in order to be able to cope with also serious events. It is not only possible to discuss what the state can do on top of additional resources even if we have made efforts there. Only this early summer showed that the helicopters really gave results. They could be placed out in the country where it was dry and make quick efforts. Then there were not so big fires. We were able to avoid the big difficult situations, which was good. I think it matters. What is a bit positive, however, is that the major accidents and fires create a great deal of interest. At least that's the picture I've got. People were seen wanting to volunteer. There were others who recruited some part-time firemen after the fires. People saw that it was perhaps an important task to do in society and be able to do it. You could use the crises to advance the positions. What is particularly exciting is that the social partners, in which I am not involved at this stage, have signed two agreements. It is first an emergency agreement that resolves some of the remuneration and other and overtime issues for existing staff in the event of major crises. So what do we do? How do we make it equal? What are the rules? This makes it possible to make better use of existing resources, says the parties. I think that's a good deal. The second is the new collective agreement for part-time firefighters. I won't review it in detail. The aim is to make it possible to work in municipal activities to a greater extent. Historically, there were quite a few people working in industry around Sweden who were also part-time firefighters. It is more difficult to leave the industry today. Fewer people work in the industry. There are more small companies that have difficulty releasing their staff at short notice. Then I think the municipal sector can be very interesting to find the combination service where you have a permanent job in the municipality. You work in the local business but have the opportunity to be part-time firefighter on the side, whether it's a man or a woman. It could also broaden the recruitment base quite properly to part-time firefighters. I still want to see it as two signs in time that you work from different parties to develop the business. Then I really want to share that it matters how you sign the agreements, how you set schedules and how to take care of your part-time firefighters. I have travelled a lot in the country and met different parties, and you do in different ways and see different results. People today have different expectations of a task as part-time firefighter. It is important that municipalities recognise this and can use this insight when designing their operations. One thing we have done on the part of the state to say that we have a role in this area is that we have given MSB more money for education. If I look at 2019, MSB offers 780 training places for part-time firefighters compared to perhaps 460 or around 500 historically. Since there is more turnover, we have tried to take heights for it by trying to have a slightly larger rate of training of part-time firefighters. I think it's important.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-55	Madam President, I would like I hear from the government's description that we share roughly the same picture of what reality looks like. We see the problem in a rather similar way. I would just like to highlight what the Government said about collective agreements. It has been one part of the fact that it has been difficult to recruit part-time firefighters. Since 1997, the agreement negotiations have been governed by the label, and it does everywhere else. But the brand means very low levels of wage increases for part-time firefighters. It has changed since 2015. One of the objectives is greater flexibility. The emergency services I have met show that we are heading in the right direction and that this is a positive development. However, it is still often stated in the employment contracts that one is prepared for whole weeks. Here we may have to look at new ideas and new scheduling. Should we land in the situation of having to have full-time rescue services throughout our country, the cost would be enormous. For the municipality from which I come, little Lycksele with 13,000 inhabitants, this would mean an increased cost of SEK 20 million each year. The Government also understands this as a completely unreasonable cost. In addition, if you have only one call on average per day, it becomes unreasonable. We must ensure that we have good competence among the part-time rescuers we have. It is important that we can maintain the skills we have and that we do not lower the requirements for competence, physical testing or at all the requirements that we impose on rescuers today. In order to cope with recruitment, I think it is necessary, as the Government says, to cooperate more closely with local companies. Not all companies have the opportunity, as the Government says, to release their employees. You can't work in a joint venture and be a part-time fireman. For example, you cannot work in the healthcare sector with your own patients if you are now to be a part-time firefighter. I believe that together we must offer employers carrots to hire or allow already employed employees to become part-time firefighters. Maybe we should lower the fee to the unemployment fund for those who hire part-time firefighters. Perhaps we should compare this with the situation of seamen with that of a subsidy from the sea, which allows them to deduct their salary in the declaration. Perhaps we should look at other deductions that can be made in the taxation of the earned income of those who work as part-time firefighters in order to stimulate and increase the recruitment of part-time firefighters.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-63	Madam President, I would like Part of the solution is to give the sector a little more long-term direction and rules of play. The Civil Protection investigation and also the Forest Fire investigation have put forward a number of proposals which, when I travel the country, are very important to clarify. There are, for example, requirements for municipalities to cooperate. Small municipalities in particular cannot cope with major accidents or disasters themselves. There must be effective collaboration with others, but also an opportunity to manage activities that work better. We really saw last summer that it was there it broke most. If you don't have the management, it's not just that you can't manage the business. It is very difficult to accept help if you do not have the management structure. I usually say that those recommendations are in investigations. The municipalities don't have to wait to work on this. I am clear that those requirements are coming. I have the ambition now to present a legislative referral before the end of the year with the proposals in order to be clear. That will be the development that we need to see in the emergency services across the country in order to cope with the somewhat more difficult situations. There is also the question of the supervision of the preventive and civil protection activities of municipalities, which must work in order to maintain a minimum level throughout the country. There are also recommendations for those parts where you can interact with others. This applies to both companies and municipalities, which historically have not worked so strategically with. It is also a question of finding municipal employees who can share a normal position of being part-time firefighter alongside regular work. I think we have a lot to do in this area. I also believe that we are in a phase where these issues will become increasingly important. Much indicates that the climate changes that we are now seeing are going to lead to more of different weather. It can also lead to more types of accidents. Then society must be prepared for this, and it must be done in collaboration between different municipalities and with additional state resources that can be deployed when needed.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-69	Madam President, I would like I hear we agree, me and the Government, on this issue. I am pleased to hear that. Unfortunately, it is the municipalities in the country that are the worst at allowing their employees to be part-time firefighters. Today we see that private companies are planning for their employees so that they can be part-time firefighters. Here we have a lesson to do in backing back and seeing what the municipal and public sector can do to recruit as many part-time firemen as possible. As the Government points out, it is very important that we can maintain competence. We cannot go below a minimum level, because the requirements are as high for a part-time firefighter to be able to maintain their mission and do the best possible job. At the end of the day, it is the security of our citizens that we must protect.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-72	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by thanking Elisabeth Rahm, Björnsdotter, for an interpellation debate which shows that we have a very similar view of reality. It is also very much about the expectations we have of what needs to be implemented, not least in the municipalities, in the near future. This also applies to the interaction between different actors, where the public sector and municipalities can be a much closer player linked to part-time firefighters. It should be able to work better. I think it is important to put some responsibility also on the rescue services in the form of the image of the fireman profession, as is often said. Today, the recruitment base is almost just men. It is not good equality in this profession. There are those who say: Women do not pass physical tests. That's not really true. Look at how many women today are very committed to training and who see it as an important part of their lives! It is clear that the firefighters' profession and civil protection must also be developed. Otherwise, the rescue services will turn down half the population as a recruitment base. In addition, if we add variety to the raster, we can see that civil protection today is a little behind other large agencies working on approximately the same recruitment basis. You can look at the police or the Swedish Armed Forces, who have come further in the recruitment work. It is important to bear this responsibility. If you are going to manage recruitment and find really good people, you have to look at the entire population to make it possible.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-76	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me what the government and I are doing in order for the training of bluelight personnel in emergency driving to be nationally uniform and what the government and I are doing to ensure that an increased number of blue light personnel have the right training in emergency driving and that this should not be ignored. She has also asked me what the government and I are doing to reduce accidents involving personal injuries caused by emergency drivers. It is of great importance that the blue light actors, i.e. the police authorities, emergency services and ambulance services, have a good ability to carry out effective and safe assistance and intervention when cases of illness or accidents have occurred and when crimes have been committed. The safe operation of emergency vehicles is, in this context, of importance to other road users, blue-collar workers and helpers. When driving emergency vehicles in urgent cases, i.e. during emergency driving, the Traffic Regulation allows the driver to refrain from complying with traffic rules provided that special care is taken. Emergency driving is risky and places high demands on the driver's competence to be able to drive the vehicle safely. Bluelight operators are responsible for ensuring that the personnel have the skills required to carry out their tasks, such as emergency services, through training and experience. Operators must also carry out systematic work environment management. Within the framework of this work, MSB has developed, among others, the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Police Authority in 2017, the Guide Safety in the Road Traffic Environment, which states that all emergency drivers need to undergo a driver training course that meets specific competence goals. These goals can be found in the guide Basic competence targets for emergency drivers, which was developed in 2008 by MSB, the Swedish Work Environment Agency, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Transport Administration jointly. On the basis of this guidance, an instructor training course is also available to operators training emergency drivers. Consequently, joint action has been taken at national level to ensure an appropriate and more uniform competence of emergency drivers. The government will closely monitor the development of society's ability to carry out effective and secure relief and intervention and will take the necessary measures if necessary. At the same time, it is essential that blue light operators themselves continue to take the necessary measures to maintain high quality and safety in their operations.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-82	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This interpellation is, of course, closely linked to the previous interpellation which the Government and I debated just now. I have been exercising here in Parliament for several years on a national blue light driver training, but as is the case with most of the movements here in Parliament, I have been refused this exercise. I have taken note of the guidance, Safety in the road transport environment, to which the Government refers. It is certainly a good guide. But that is also what it is — a guide. Driving a heavy vehicle – in this case a fire truck – during emergency, under stress and at high speed requires a lot of knowledge, training and continuity in driving skills. Many of our part-time firefighters don't have many calls during their standby hours, which means that there are very high demands on every rescuer – or rescue woman. I'm sorry, we're gonna stick to gender equality here! However, this is not the only area where a part-time fireman or firewoman is required to maintain knowledge. You should maintain knowledge in smoke diving in warm and cold environments, you should be able to drive quadricycles, and snowmobiles up in my areas, and you should be able to use chainsaws. The list can be made long. All this training should take place on the part-time fireman's or firewoman's own free time. We place very high demands on our part-time firefighters and fire women, and the compensation they receive does not always correspond to the work they do to maintain their skills.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-88	Madam President, I would like The question has several different bottoms. I interpreted the interpellant a little bit as there would be a single education for this, but perhaps I overinterpreted it something. There have been discussions about having specific training for anyone who works with emergency vehicles. When I am asked whether this is good or not, I hear that there is quite a difference between working with a truck in emergency services and driving an ambulance or even a police car. There are different vehicles, and there are different requirements for both patients, in some cases, relatives, people around, fellow road users and so on. It is important to see that the needs and skills are partly different in the different activities. But I really do share the view that it is incredibly important that employers take this issue very seriously and that we follow it over time. We have high road safety ambitions in Sweden. We have a zero vision. In this case, we choose to deviate from the rules that exist in the traffic environment because it is so important to cope with public safety and security and to save lives. But then it is also important that the people who have this power have training for it, have the opportunity to train and thus also have the knowledge required to drive the vehicles. If, over time, there are discussions or signals that this is becoming an ever-increasing problem or if we see developments that are ominous, I do not rule out my being able to take further initiatives in this area. However, I think it is important to make it clear today that it is the employers who have a huge responsibility to ensure that their staff, both for health and safety reasons and with regard to other fellow road users, have the right training and competence for the task.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-92	Madam President, I would like The Government is absolutely right: It is of course the employer who has the ultimate responsibility for their employees. If I don't remember wrong, in 2012 there was an investigation in Umeå where it was established that 16 people died this year because of accidents during civil protection work – and now I'm not just talking about civil protection, but about all the bluelight personnel. Driving heavy vehicles is a tough task, and it requires a C licence. A fire truck weighs about 20 tons on average. It's a big vehicle to drive. In order for a fireman to take his C driving licence, the same knowledge of theory and practice is required today as for the person who will drive a heavy truck. A fireman may not need knowledge of loading and unloading, rest periods and other things specific to a future truck driver. We may have to look at introducing our own training programme for a safe C driving licence that is more adapted to the area of competence we are talking about here, namely blue light personnel. I also know that there is a big difference between driving an ambulance and driving a fire truck. I think that an adapted education would be good because then we could include more people who could take a C driving licence. Today, many rescue services do not have a C driver's licence and are therefore unable to fill their rescue teams properly. We also place high demands on our volunteers in the emergency services. Depending on how large a location you operate in and how many alarms the station has, of course, vary the ability to practice your skills and, above all, as I said earlier, the ability and competence to drive a heavy vehicle under stress and in stressed situations. That is why we need to look at the possibilities for a more targeted C driving licence training. In addition, we place very high demands on our men and women in emergency services to train all these elements for a short time. That is why I think we need to look at the possibility of another C driving licence in order to keep the rescuers we have today.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-98	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue of road safety, both for blue light workers and for other road users. There's a problem today. However, I would like to make a few nuances of the matter. It's a little hard to get accurate statistics. I've been trying to drill in this. MSB notes that there is no comprehensive accident statistics in the area of blue light flares. However, there are statistics from the Swedish Transport Agency, although it is not possible to determine whether it is a matter of emergency or of ordinary traffic. Both types of accidents are equally bad, but I suppose we are talking about the more aggressive driving that you are forced to do when it is a call that can save lives. The Swedish Transport Agency's statistics for the years 2007 – 2016 show that approximately 90 people were injured annually and that approximately 1 person died annually during these years when driving blue light vehicles. The statistics relate to both blue-light personnel and third persons. Above all, it was in the metropolitan regions that the accidents occurred. If you look at the different categories in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's statistics, you can see that most accidents occur linked to police operations. It is running and rolling all the time, and there are of course more cars in the police business than there are emergency vehicles that are rolling all the time. However, there is quite a difference between these. We will follow this matter closely. I believe that the most important thing now is to ensure that employers take responsibility, that they follow this closely and that we are clear that we do not accept bending the regulatory framework or refrain from making the necessary efforts for staff to have both training and experience to drive heavy-duty vehicles as intended. At the moment, I will not take any further action. But I follow the question very closely, and if it turns out that this is a problem that is growing over time or that there needs to be further action by the state, along with the guidance that is now available, I am prepared to look at it. However, I believe that it is most important right now to place the responsibility where it belongs, namely on the employers who have employees in the blue light authorities.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-103	Madam President, I would like As we have already noted, it is the employer who has the greatest responsibility. However, Umeå University did a study in 2012, if I don't remember wrong, about bluelight personnel and accident frequency. Maybe it's something the government can look at. In the field of civil protection, work is currently under way on an overall common management system. This is something that the emergency services I have visited see as very positive, given that it is difficult to maintain skills and levels of education on their employees in smaller locations. The problem right now is that we do not really know what the requirements will be and when this will be introduced, but in the field of civil protection we see what has been said as positive. It is perhaps something that the Government can press on and provide a clearer timeframe and a clearer content so that it can come about in the near future. If we are to maintain the competence of our part-time firefighters, we need decisive solutions, carrots for employers and possible combination services, which the Government has mentioned in the past. As I said, we want to continue to offer our citizens the security they deserve when calling 112 and asking for help.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-106	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that blue light personnel make important contributions to life, health and safety every day – 24 hours a day, seven days a week, every day of the year. It is an incredibly important work that is being done. But they also need long-term rules of play. They need to know what's going on. We have had two heavy investigations, the Forest Fire Investigation and the Rescue Services Investigation, which have presented their proposals. My ambition is to present a legislative referral before the end of the year in order to give a clear signal forward of what applies. In terms of management support and inter-municipal coordination, this will not be freely chosen work. This must happen, because not least the smaller ones need to be able to connect with the larger ones and make efforts. We know that early intervention plays a very important role in saving lives or preventing accidents, and then it has to work from the start and it has to work during all hours of the day. I will take this along with me and look forward to further discussion. I will also look into Umeå University.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-109	Madam President, I would like Saila Quicklund has asked me what I mean by the fact that the reason for the increasing number of workplace accidents among electricians is a macho culture and what measures I intend to take to improve the working environment for electricians. Last year several people in the electricity industry died from their work and many were injured. Only a few weeks ago, there was another person who died at his place of work. It is deeply tragic, and we can never accept that people die in their jobs. Preventing fatal accidents at work is a priority for the government. The starting point for the government's health and safety policy is that no one should be harmed or ill from their work. The Government's strategy for health and safety at work is based on concrete measures in three priority areas where zero vision against fatal accidents and prevention of occupational accidents is one of the areas. Since the government took office last term of office, raising the level of ambition for health and safety at work policy has been an important priority. So to the macho culture. In recent years, the Swedish Electrical Safety Agency has highlighted an uneven gender balance and a lack of diversity in the electricity industry. The electricity industry is a male-dominated industry. In August this year only 238 of 44,658 authorized electrical installers were women. As much as 99.5% of electricians are men. The Swedish Electrical Safety Agency's studies show that nearly three out of four electrical accidents at work are due to incorrect work behaviour and inadequate compliance with procedures. Employers and owners of electrical installations have an important job in continuing to improve leadership in electrical safety work and procedures. Increased diversity in the industry can affect current culture and lead to increased security thinking. But there are of course also a number of other causes of workplace accidents in the electricity industry. For example, the Swedish Electricians Association and Seko, the union for service and communication, have pointed to the organisation of operation and maintenance work of electricity grids as a possible cause of workplace accidents. Electricity network owners sometimes manage the operation and maintenance of electricity networks through procured contractors. These comments are also important to take into account in the further work. In February, together with five of my ministers' colleagues, I took a joint initiative to clearly highlight death at work. This is a work that needs to be carried out jointly between the relevant authorities, the social partners and other stakeholders. In June this year, the Government instructed the Swedish Work Environment Authority to carry out an analysis of the circumstances that preceded the fatal accidents in working life that occurred in 2018 and the first half of 2019, and to draw conclusions and consider appropriate measures that could contribute to preventive work environment management. The Swedish Work Environment Authority shall, where deemed appropriate, cooperate with the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work and other relevant authorities, the social partners and other stakeholders. The assignment shall be reported to the Government no later than in connection with the annual report for 2019. As far as the electricity sector is concerned, on 19 September, I met the industry's actors, the social partners and the relevant authorities in a conversation where we jointly reviewed the way forward. We noted that we need to deepen discussions on attitudes and safety culture, skills provision, criteria for setting safety requirements in procurements and a more qualified picture of accidents in the energy industry. I therefore invited to a follow-up meeting when the Swedish Work Environment Authority has presented the assignment that I just mentioned at the beginning of next year.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-118	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason for this interpellation debate is precisely Minister Ygeman's statement earlier this year that one of the reasons why the number of workplace accidents is increasing among electricians is that there is a macho culture. The statement came in Morgonekot, and many with me are probably wondering about the meaning of this macho culture that the Government expressed. Understanding the meaning of that wording is important for us to be able to make adequate efforts to prevent more accidents. The Minister did not really answer the question about this in his reply, but I hope we can take note of what he meant by it during this debate. 0.5 percent of electricians today are women, and such a statement does not exactly facilitate the recruitment of more women. According to Wikipedia, macho culture means the following: a.k.a. Machismo, Spanish word for macho culture in Latin American countries. "M achismo" is a type of living pattern where traditional male behaviours and attributes are highlighted. The notion that a man should behave like a confident, cocky woman lover and have a male identity can be strongly recognized with the macho culture. 中 Words matter. Madam President, I would like Last year, 226 electrical workplace accidents were reported and also several deaths. As the Minister also stated in his reply, there was also a recent fatal accident, which is, of course, deeply tragic. I agree with the Government that we cannot accept people dying in their workplaces. I now know, on the basis of the Minister's reply, that the Government would meet the industry's actors and the relevant authorities on 19 September. I wish to take note of what emerged at that meeting, preferably a little more than what the Government has just said. I also wish to answer my question: What does macho culture mean to the Government based on the description found on Wikipedia?
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-125	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it would have been better if Saila Quicklund had devoted herself to studying the tragic statistics of accidents in the electrical safety industry rather than searching Wikipedia. It is because many of the accidents – the tragic fatal accidents and the serious accidents – that we have seen have had nothing to do with electricity. It has been installers who have worked many hours extra and been killed when they drove off the road. There have been workers who haven't waited for the other one for a job where you should be two because they wanted to do the job on their own. They have been the ones who have tightened the safety rules and routines because they think they can do it. I think that part of what we see is an expression of a macho culture, that is to say that you want to do something yourself to live up to a somewhat dated ideal. I think it is recording that 99.5% of those in the industry are men and that there is a risk that a culture has been cultivated where you should manage things yourself and be a little stronger and a little better. I think it is extremely serious, and I think it is a part of the fatal accidents in the electricity industry. Another part is the hard-screwed construction agreements and the demand for uptime in the electricity industry, which makes it very hard to drive employees at the subcontracting level. I believe that the time pressure associated with these ideals is one of many explanations for the fatal accidents in the industry. I think that Saila Quicklund should take the accident statistics we have seen far more seriously and discuss it rather than the Minister's choice of words.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-129	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it is even more important for the Government to deal with the number of workplace accidents than to gloat over a googling on Wikipedia. Words matter. I have also just read out what macho culture means. Madam President, I would like I am well aware of the importance of workplace accidents and of the measures taken. I have spoken to the Swedish Electricians Association, which states that the procurements are written based on efficiency pressure. This is why electricians are under stress, causing accidents at work. It is also a question of electricians having to travel very long distances, up to 300 km, in emergency situations when you need to get the electricity supply started. This applies in my county, for example, which has long distances. It is also a question of cooperation. When, because of the way the agreements are written in terms of efficiency, you do not have time to wait for a colleague, you go out on your own. I am well aware of this problem. It is therefore about stress, the design of procurements, requirements for efficiency, distance and so on. Let me also address workplace accidents and fatal accidents in general. The number has increased significantly in recent years. We have had the highest number in ten years, nine in January alone. In 2018, 58 persons were killed. In four years 170 people were killed. It is the fourth year in a row that the deaths are increasing. The trend is in the opposite direction to the government's goal of reducing the number of fatal accidents – there is also a zero vision. I would like to give you some examples that have emerged with regard to fatal accidents at work. The Deputy Director General of the Swedish Work Environment Agency states that there are no concrete targets for the reduction of deaths per year. Targets don't exist. Svenska Dagbladet has stated in a report series that the cooperation between the authorities does not work completely painlessly. It's alarming. The Ombudsman has criticised the Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority regarding a fatal accident at LKAB in Norrbotten. Listen and be amazed. After four years, the investigation was not finished. Four years! The Police Authority has also previously reported and indicated that their investigations into occupational safety and health offences are inadequate. The duration of proceedings is too long, and too few investigations have led to prosecutions and convictions.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-137	Madam President, I would like As Saila Quicklund says, the government has a goal when it comes to fatal accidents in working life. Target is zero. No one should have to go to work and worry if you come home again, no matter what business you work in. Close, loved ones and relatives should not have to worry either. That's the government's goal. It is also the background to the initiative that the then Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson took along with me and four other ministers in the areas where accidents are increasing. The electricity and energy industry is one of those areas and the area where I have a deeper responsibility. I am pleased that Saila Quicklund acknowledges that there is uncertainty in working life and that hard-pressed construction contracts are part of the problem in the electricity industry. I look forward to the Moderates' proposal for measures to remedy job insecurity and tougher construction contracts. What I have seen from moderate politics so far is the opposite. More will be on offer. More will be outsourced. There will be greater uncertainty in working life. And labour law is to be cut. It will, of course, drive development. The government takes fatal accidents at work very seriously. The background to this interpellation debate also applies to the initiative we have taken to reduce fatal accidents in the electricity sector. Saila Quicklund criticises it because I have also noticed that in very male-dominated industries there are cultural problems to deal with.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-141	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Government is asking the Moderates for help in dealing with health and safety at work. I want to thank you for that. I will continue to talk about what has been said about workplace accidents and fatal accidents. Officials from the National Unit for Environment and Safety and Health at Work have also previously testified that the Swedish Work Environment Authority does not take investigations of death seriously enough. It's serious. Last year the newspaper reported that the South Police Region had too little resources to handle the number of reports of occupational health and safety crimes. They were too few in investigations of death and so on. So there is a history of having too little resources. It is therefore a question of lack of cooperation between authorities. The resources are too small, fatal accidents are not given sufficient priority and they are too long processing times. These are major challenges for the government to tackle. Every authority and individual is really doing everything they can, I believe, in their missions to improve the situation. But it is a question of leadership and governance, not least on the part of the government, in order to do so. More clarity is needed from the government. Many have pointed out the shortcomings for many years. Why aren't the stakes put in? It has been five years with the government that has been aiming to improve the situation but has failed. I am clearly aware that employers, trade unions and safety representatives have a great deal of responsibility. However, if it does not work, the government still has the highest responsibility for ensuring that conditions are improved.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-148	Madam President, I would like What Saila Quicklund says gets a little weird. She calls for initiatives from the government, but the whole interpellation is to question the initiative taken by the government. Saila Quicklund demands clarity. I shall once again be clear in this interpellation debate. The goal is that no one should have to die at their workplace. The number of deaths must be reduced. The number of accidents must be reduced. We must have safe and secure workplaces. That was the background to my meeting with five other ministers to discuss what measures we could take in each area to reduce the number of accidents and eliminate fatal accidents. That is also the background to the fact that I convened a broad section of industry representatives, employers and trade unions to discuss what we can do together. That is also why we jointly put forward proposals for action in the three most important areas and decided that we should meet again at the beginning of next year. We're trapped in the spirit of no one dying at work.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-151	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mats Green for the opportunity to participate in my first interpellation debate. Mats Green has asked me, in the light of Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin's statements, why the proposal for a development year contains no direction whatsoever towards the shortage professions. Mats Green has also asked me how many and what training courses for shortage professions can be carried out at all within the time frame of the development year, i.e. at least three and a maximum of twelve months. The Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2020 to introduce development time for up to one year should be seen in the light of the rapidly increasing demands for transition in the labour market and a lack of skills in several professions. The Government sees a need to contribute to raising the skills and adaptability of the labour force and to increasing labour market mobility. The development period of the reform therefore provides opportunities for employees to develop their skills or to develop new skills in order to strengthen their continued employability. At the same time, the reform means that employers' labour needs with the right training can be better met. Development time is intended to provide individuals with increased opportunities to develop, after a voluntary agreement with their employer, skills development in their current work or take the step to other employment. An important opportunity arising from this reform is for individuals to be given a chance and incentives to train themselves to professions where there is currently a shortage of labour. Work on the detailed design of the reform is ongoing within the Government Office, and the focus on shortage occupations is an issue that is relevant in this work.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-157	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its reply and welcome the first of many interpellation debates in Parliament. Now to the point, that is, the free year. The government, Madam President, has, in the framework of the January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, proposed the reintroduction of the free-year in a reshape form, now called a development year. This is to be done at an annual cost of 1 billion. The initiative has been condemned by almost all the experts, institutes and consultation bodies, including the organisation that Eva Nordmark led up to just a few weeks ago, namely the TCO trade union. In these times of escalating gang crime and insecurity, the government chooses to invest twice as much in the free year as in the police. In the Government's argument for the development year, it has been stated that this would primarily be a solution to the recruitment problem in Sweden's shortage professions. When the Minister was in the Committee on Employment a few weeks ago, in the light of this argument, I asked the questions I have raised in the interpellation we are now dealing with, that is to say: why does the proposal for a release have no focus whatsoever on the shortage professions, and how many and what training courses for the shortage professions can be carried out at all within the time frame of the development year, i.e. at least three and a maximum of twelve months? When I asked these questions to the Minister a few weeks ago, neither she nor any of her accompanying staff could give one example of this despite, Madam President, that this was the government's main argument for the free year. We have now heard the Minister read out his answer. Despite having all the preparation time in the world, it is obvious and, frankly, remarkable that one cannot give a single example of how the development year could be the solution when it comes to recruitment to Sweden's shortage professions. Yet it is claimed that this is the very reason why it is putting forward the proposal to begin with. Therefore, Madam President, I have no choice but to ask the obvious questions once again: will the year of development be geared towards shortage occupations, and can the Minister give a single example of an education to a shortage profession that can be carried out at all within the period of the free year?
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-163	Madam President, I would like I would also like to welcome the Minister to the interpellation debate. I did not intend to take part in this debate; I have just had another interpellation debate. However, while we are debating the year of development or the free year, I would like to ask the Minister a question. Between January and July 2019 we had 182 shootings, 28 deaths and 120 bombings – a 45% increase compared to the same period last year. People feel a lot of insecurity in Sweden, and law and order is one of the highest ranked political issues among Sweden's population. Then why isn't the government listening? Add to that that the Police Authority presents a strong need for more resources. In this crisis situation for Sweden, the government thus chooses to prioritise a free year or development year over more resources to the police. Madam President, I would like How can this even be possible, and how does Minister Nordmark justify this priority?
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-166	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by pointing out an issue in which, as the new Minister for Labour, I really want to help make a difference. The major problem in the Swedish labour market today is the lack of the right skills. Many private employers find it difficult to recruit the right skills, thus limiting their growth potential. The public sector also lacks staff in many important professions such as teachers, nurses and specialist nurses, which of course affects the quality of common welfare. The question of how we ensure that we get the right skills in the right place is thus about creating growth and increased prosperity and improving the quality of welfare services. I have to say that I am a little surprised, perhaps because this is my first interpellation debate. I am surprised by both Mats Green and Saila Quicklund's arguments regarding development time. They choose to call it a free year, speaking of Saila Quicklund's previous debate, which I also listened to, that words matter. The reform we are proposing is about time for development. It is about meeting the needs of the shortage professions, and it is about giving people the opportunity to replenish with new skills, both to keep the job they have and to be able to enter new jobs. My answer to Mats Green is still the answer I gave when asked by you in committee: we are currently working on the further design of the development period and will come back with it. The ambition and the intention is to steer this towards the shortage professions, and it is important for Sweden. It is about growth, about having competitive companies and about the quality of welfare services.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-170	Madam President, I would like Olof Palme used to say that you should call things by their right name. That is why this is called a free year; it is about not working at the expense of working colleagues. With all due respect – what the Minister read out is honestly not an answer to anything, and that is also wrong. The fact that the development year would be about filling the shortage professions is just one in a series of absurd finding arguments. You can say a lot about the free year, and most people do. But there is therefore a lack of money to cut care queues, raise police salaries and invest in the school, while there is money for one year's leave and other grants. In times of rising unemployment, this is the last Sweden and those who do not have a job at all to get time off from need. Let me quote LO: Then it is quite wrong to create a system of education aimed only at those who are already well established in the labour market. Over 700,000 people lack permanent jobs, many of them women, and they go beyond this proposal, says Therese Guovelin, First Vice-President of LO, to Work. And she adds: "M an misses those who are insecure in the labour market." The trade union TCO and its members, under Eva Nordmark's leadership, also dismissed the free year: When we ask our union members how they want to develop skills, most of them answer that they want to combine studies and work. Studying and working full time. It does not comply with this proposal. In addition, TCO says, the study leave law is already more generous when it comes to the right to study. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise notes that the government chooses to invest a lot of money in giving those who have already had jobs paid to be absent from work. That is hardly what the Swedish labour market needs today. I could continue reading out critical bodies indefinitely, but time does not allow. Madam President, I would like There are no free years. There's always someone paying. The fact that pensioners and employees have to pay for some to leave work with this so-called development year is not right, and that is not, above all, fair. With all due respect, I think there are very few of those who listen to this debate who think it is reasonable for them to get up and work every day at work so that someone else can take time off. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by stating what it actually is: this is a sour cream for a small group of people. When ordinary people are allowed to take student loans to train and work to support themselves, a small group is left to disperse at the expense of others. This is inequality at its worst, and it is tax-financed.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-177	Madam President, I would like This is an important political discussion. Basically, it is about how we ensure a labour market in which employers can recruit the staff they need and how people have the opportunity to replenish with new knowledge and come forward to be employed only. For this, we need a variety of measures. It is about studies and increasing flexibility in the provision of training. Mats Green quotes me from my previous role, and I am particularly grateful for that. It's also about daring to test new types of reforms – from intensive years to development time. I have to say, I'm a little disappointed. Both you, Mats Green, and I know that the free year was a labour market policy reform that was about people being free without any demands on what they would do during that time. One could even be free for recreation. But development time is not about this. It's about filling up with new knowledge and skills. It will be a little ridiculous, I think, when we stand here debating as if we think this is a free year, because we all know it is not. These are completely different kinds of requirements. If one is to compare with any reform, it is actually the previous educational covens. They concerned that a person who was in employment could agree with his employer to be free to fill in new knowledge and skills, and then the employer could at the same time bring in a person who was unemployed. In this way, we increase labour market mobility, and we give people the opportunity to change and replenish with new knowledge and skills. Then I have to comment on the comparison with the police. In the 2020 budget, we spend 200 million on development time and 2.4 billion on the police. It is wrong to compare such bets.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-181	Madam President, I would like Again, as Olof Palme said: You should call things by their right name. Free years and years of development are about not working and those who work will pay for it. As far as the police are concerned, I can see that the figures quoted by Eva Nordmark are correct only if we accept the efforts made by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats in their budget. The budget presented by the Social Democrats and their co-operative parties is extremely uninterested in giving any major resources to the police at all – it is only symbolic needle money that proposes nothing. Right should be right, Minister. The government says that the development year is about us being able to support our shortages. The Minister for Labour cannot give a single example of an education that could be started and completed during a development year. This argument is the basis for the government's argument here, but there is therefore no single example. It's deeply unjust. So you are investing more in years of freedom, years of development, than in police, nursing and school. That is totally unacceptable. Even the Green Party, which has proposed this, states in its own investigation that it will cost a total of 8 billion, and the Public Employment Service, which will handle it, has said that they cannot do it. I would appreciate a comment on this last one, the Council of State.
i-849cb925bbc5e67d-185	Madam President, I would like After all, we are providing resources for this. This also applies to Arbetsförmedlingen. I would like to emphasise once again that we are currently working at the Government Office and at the Department on the actual design of the development time. We will come back with the design itself and exactly what it will look like. Let me try to answer Mats Green's various questions. We have many different shortages in Sweden today, ranging from long courses as an engineer and programmer to shorter. Perhaps this could have the effect of lowering the thresholds and making it a simpler way in. There are also very many professions where there is a major shortage today and where the training period corresponds to about one year. It is about chefs, butchers, nurses and many important jobs on the construction side. I look forward to coming back to you, Mats Green, with the detailed design and hope that this reform will also contribute to what is our ambition, namely to increase mobility in the labour market and make sure to replenish new skills, so that we become more competitive in the future.
