i-392d7873c8915883-5	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked the Minister of Finance a number of questions about compensation to landowners when the State makes use of land for infrastructure projects. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Funds for compensation to landowners are budgeted in those projects where land needs to be redeemed. Thus, no separate item for compensation is included in the State budget, but is included in the appropriations for investments made available by the Finnish Transport Administration. The fact that the Finnish Transport Agency is to pay compensation to landowners when land is used according to a defined road plan according to the Road Act or a railway plan according to the Railway Construction Act is regulated by the respective law. As regards the determination of the amount of compensation, these laws refer to the provisions of the Expropriation Act. As a starting point, the remuneration for the land shall be equal to the market value plus 25 %. In addition, it is possible to obtain compensation for certain other damages and costs. A valuation of the land to be used is carried out on a case-by-case basis. In general, voluntary agreements are made on compensation. However, if a landowner does not agree with Trafikverket on the amount of compensation, the matter will be decided in court. I have great confidence that the Finnish Transport Administration is applying the legislation correctly, and I cannot or will not comment on the level of compensation in individual cases.
i-392d7873c8915883-9	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have asked the Minister whether it is reasonable for the state to steal land from individual citizens without providing market remuneration. I have asked the question on the basis of a case that is currently going on in Umeå. But this has happened elsewhere, especially in Norrland. In Umeå, Trafikverket intends to build a road to get the last part of the Western link together, which is good. I stand firmly behind what all parties in the Swedish Parliament agree: that the state should have the right to use land to build important social infrastructure. Anything else would be unreasonable. The problem here is that the Swedish Transport Administration will replace the individual landowners with SEK 50,000 per hectare. Once this is done, the Swedish Transport Administration will be able to peel the land away and sell for 250 000 per hectare. It's land that someone else owns today. That is why I have asked the Minister a question. It is not about what it looks like, as the Minister has replied, Madam President. I have asked the Minister whether he thinks this is reasonable and whether we should do something about it. The Minister's response has been heard in this House. But it is really a question of having full confidence in the officials of the Finnish Transport Administration and that if the parties do not agree, it will be decided in court. Madam President, I would like I have two objections to the answer I receive from the Minister. The first is that the landowners find this unreasonable, but so do the Transport Administration's officials who have to deal with the legislation. They don't think this feels good in their stomachs in any way. I understand that. You take someone's property, which is worth a lot more. Then you let someone else make money out of this. That was the first part. The second part is that the Minister refers to the Court. Yes, that is the way things look today when you don't get along. But the court, like the Finnish Transport Administration's officials, has to deal with the law. Madam President, I would like What we are doing here in Parliament is, of course, legislation, and the government is preparing proposals for Parliament, that is to say, legislative proposals. If something doesn't work, if we think something isn't right and if something is wrong, it's our job to change it. Our work is not to recite what the legislation looks like and how courts work. I know very well how it works. The question is: Does the Minister think it reasonable to steal land in this way? The officials responsible for doing so do not think that this is reasonable. I don't think that's reasonable. Will the Minister help us to look at this in any way?
i-392d7873c8915883-18	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Edward Riedl for his commitment. Edward Riedl knows very well that I cannot or must not comment on whether or not it is appropriate compensation in the individual case. That is why it is a good thing that it is so well arranged; a landowner who is not satisfied with the compensation, who does not think that they get enough value on the basis of the market valuation that is being made, has the opportunity to appeal against this. It is referred to the Land and Environment Court. It is even arranged in such a way that Trafikverket bears not only its costs but also the complainant's costs. I, as a landowner, should not have to hesitate to bring the matter to court. That is an important principle in this context. This means that the current legislation will have to deal with the matter. It is clear that there will always be differences of opinion as to whether the mark-up is correctly done. The way in which surface layers can be used and the equivalent shall also be included in the valuation. The principle behind the legislation is that the landowner should not end up in a worse position than if the land was not used. That is why it is important that we have that order. Of course, this is a principle that we have had for a very long time. I think it's the 1940 Road Act that's been guiding here. The last time a change was made was during the time of the alliance government. The legislation that we now have to relate to is the one that was developed during Fredrik Reinfeldt's reign. Among other things, the requirement for compensation of 25 % was formulated to assure the landowner that he would not end up in a worse position, but rather in a slightly better one. That must be the starting point. I share Edward Riedl's point of departure, and I believe that everyone is doing this to safeguard the importance of being able to make good infrastructure investments. In doing so, there must be a reasonable remuneration for landowners. It must be such that you do not end up in a worse position than if the land was not used. This must be the starting point for Trafikverket's actions and for judicial review. This is also the starting point for the government.
i-392d7873c8915883-23	Madam President, I would like The Minister consistently avoids answering the basic question. We are both well aware of the current state of the law. The point of this debate that I have called for today is: if we now see that it is not working, is the Minister prepared to do something about it? As far as market values are concerned, there can be a wide range of views on how they should be done. But in these cases, which affect Norrland in particular, Trafikverket has said that the land is not worth so much and that it is therefore not intended to replace so much when trespassing. The problem in this is that the Swedish Transport Administration says in its procurement documentation to contractors that they can scale land to a value of SEK 250 000 per hectare. This is a way for the Finnish Transport Administration to keep the costs of road construction down. It is known from the outset that what you replace the individual with – 50 000 SEK per hectare – is not close to the value of the land you use. The question then is whether the Minister thinks this is reasonable or not. He does not need to comment on the individual case; there are more similar cases. My view is that this is not reasonable and that something needs to be done about it. Protection for the individual should be strengthened. If you think it is a reasonable principle to replace individuals with 20 per cent of the value, the social services would ultimately use individual apartments here in Stockholm. They can then replace apartments worth SEK 5 million with SEK 1 million and say that you still get a small sum. This is about what you give when you use land up in Norrland. I think everyone understands that this is completely unreasonable and that we need to do something about it. However, the Minister does not really give an answer on the substance of the matter, but notes what it looks like today. Madam President, I would like My only question to the Minister is: does the Minister think that this is reasonable on the part of the state, when it is known from the outset that the land is worth five times more than what is being replaced by the individual? That is the fundamental question. If the Minister does not think that is reasonable, then let us help to change the legislation. That's our job. If we find that something is not working as it should, we have the opportunity in this House to change laws. If the Minister is unable to take part in taking such an initiative, I will at least present a motion in this area. Then the House will have to try this again. I think it's unreasonable and obscene that individuals can be robbed of the values by the state just taking, boys for themselves, and letting someone else make money off other people's property. That's completely unreasonable.
i-392d7873c8915883-30	Madam President, I would like I am not sure that the argument will be improved by using concepts such as that or other powerful invectives on an issue where you make your own assessment of the soil value, as Edward Riedl does, and draw your own conclusions. If this had been the case with Edward Riedl, we would probably have had a number of convictions in the Land and Environment Court and in the courts of appeal that would have allowed the Swedish Transport Administration to back down. That is not the case, however. I, as the Government, must respect the fact that it is the courts that decide these cases. It would be good if the honourable Member thought about it as well. In this case, the courts have not reached any other position. This is important for Swedish legal certainty. It is also important to say that this is not about a 20% share, but about 25% extra of the value. If Edward Riedl himself has comments on the valuation, but it is the landowner who decides and has the opportunity to proceed to the next instance that may decide whether the valuation is reasonably made. If you think differently from Trafikverket, it will have to be tried by the judiciary. I do not want a system in which individual Members of Parliament's perception of the land value is what should govern the legislation or what order we should have in the future. I can see that the last time Parliament dealt with these issues in the context of exercise, there were also no demands for such a change. I welcome a debate. I think that both property rights issues and investment conditions are very important. I also believe that it is incredibly important not least given the great social investments we face – 700 billion in infrastructure investments, which is 100 billion more than during the time when we had a bourgeois government. These are, of course, important social investments, and then we must have a system that makes people feel safe with the compensation they receive when rail is to be drawn up or a road built. I think we have such a system. Once again, I cannot comment on the individual case. Whether the valuation should be 50 000 or anything else, I will definitely not comment on. It is the courts that have to decide whether it is an appropriate or reasonable valuation.
i-392d7873c8915883-36	Madam President, I would like Let me correct the Minister on a few points. I'm not the one doing the land valuation. That's definitely not the way it should be. It is the Minister's own authority and the officials working on the authority for which the Minister is responsible who state that they will be able to sell land for 250 000 SEK per hectare, even though they only replace the individual with 50 000. They themselves feel that the existing legislation has an unreasonable impact on soil valuation, especially in Norrland, where soil values are very low, despite the fact that the land is very valuable. This is the order you follow. Then you can either think it is right and reasonable to do this so that individuals do not receive market remuneration, or you think it is wrong. My view, Madam President, is that it is wrong. It's not about me doing soil valuations. The minister's own officials in the agency think this is wrong. Our work here, Madam President, is to change legislation when it does not work the way we want it to. The Minister's answer to this is that we should let the courts decide. However, the courts are judging under the legislation that exists today and which does not cover this area, which it should do. I have no opinion other than that of the Minister that the state should have this right. But I don't think the government should have the right to take things and replace a small shard of what you've taken. The Minister then thinks I use force. Yeah, but I think this is stealing. If you take something from another person without replacing it in a reasonable way, you have actually stolen it. That is how the landowners who have been exposed to this feel. The state takes – steal – of what is theirs. I find this unreasonable and therefore intend to take the initiative in trying to change this. I regret that the Minister does not share my view. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for the debate. We will come back to the matter.
i-392d7873c8915883-41	Madam President, I would like I welcome the debate and I think it is important that we constantly examine whether there needs to be changes in legislation. There is a valuation, and the valuation can be tested. In this assessment there are also conditions to look at whether there is a surface or a top soil that could be used in other ways. In fact, we are quite used to the fact that this is the case with land exploitation. If land has the potential to then become residential land and this is included in the detailed plan or in other plans from the municipality increases the value, and this is taken into account when expropriating. It is, by the way, a fairly common principle of financing some infrastructure building. So this is a well-known and established method that has served us well so far since about 1940. An adjustment was made in 2010 – 2011, when the compensation was increased further, so that compensation of plus 25 % would be obtained. It is not up to me or Edward Riedl to stand here and say whether the compensation is right or wrong in some individual cases, but it is courts that have the power to test it. In cases where courts try this, it is extremely rare for them to come to a different position from that which was the outcome of the Swedish Transport Administration. If the court does, that's its ruling. That's how it's supposed to be in a society of law. In this case, I am defending the rule of law. Then we will always review the legislation. I welcome this debate on both this issue and, of course, many others.
