i-ea195761617f9116-0	Madam President, I would like Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked me if I believe that a Swedish government work should go in and try to steer Norwegian politics. The question concerns an opinion from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to Fylkesman i Innlandet where the authority believes that withdrawals should not be made by the wolves in Römskogsreviret, which is classified as a border area between Sweden and Norway. The bill adopted by Parliament 2012/ 13:191 states that Sweden must achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status for the predators, while keeping domestic animals is not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations are taken into account. According to the bill, the reference value for favourable conservation status in the Swedish population of wolf should be 170 – 270 individuals. According to the bill, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was to assess, after Parliament's treatment, where the reference value for wolf would be within the range 170 – 270 individuals and report that value to the European Commission under the Species and Habitats Directive. Within this limit, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden should be at least 270 wolves. The reference value for favourable conservation status may then not be less than the reference value. However, the population has had a higher inbreeding rate than is considered acceptable, and the vulnerability analysis underlying the reference value was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects. In 2015, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency (the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency) commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and, on the basis of the new analysis, to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. Based on the analysis, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has assessed that at least 300 wolves are needed and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia reproduces with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. Madam President, I would like Skandulv's report, to which Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson refers, indicates 100 individuals who a minimum viable population, i.e. the minimum number of individuals required for the Swedish wolf tribe not to be eradicated. It is not the same as having favourable conservation status. Inv the entry result from 2018/19 shows that Sweden has 300 wolf individuals. The results from the previous year showed 305 individuals. In these numbers, Sweden's half of all border areas are counted with Norway. The results thus show that the Swedish wolf population is critically close to falling below the reference value. The Swedish and Norwegian governments entered into an agreement in 2011 on the management of genetically valuable wolves in the Scandinavian wolf population, with the intention of continuously developing cooperation on predators. Since the Römskogsreviret in the last established inventory report is classified as shared between Sweden and Norway during the inventory season 2018/19, Fylkesman i Inlandn Naturvårdsverket announced that Norway intended to introduce hunting in the territory. The communication was made in accordance with the Norwegian-Swedish Agreement and Norwegian legislation. In connection with this, Fylkesman i Innlandet asked for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's point of view on this hunt. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency then gave an opinion – that hunting in this border area is unfortunate from a Swedish perspective because it risks making it more difficult to maintain a favourable conservation status for the Swedish wolf population. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has thus acted in accordance with its mission and the agreement that exists between Sweden and Norway.
i-ea195761617f9116-5	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is an answer that may give even more questions. I will use my first speech to go through some pure errors in the Minister's interpellation response. In the first paragraph, the Minister writes that Römskogsreviret is classified as border territory. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's procedures make it very clear that it should not be classified as a border area, as the parameters for it have not been reached. Here, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has changed its own routine to make a Helnorian territory a border territory. The answer from the County Administrative Board in Värmland was much more balanced, where it was written that hunting in Römskogsreviret may have an impact on the upcoming winter inventory results in Sweden. In the third paragraph, the Minister writes about favourable conservation status, Gybs. Gybs, Madam President, is not a figure; it is a combination of criteria that must be met by the wolf, but also by us people who live with the wolf. The least viable population, MVP, is strictly about the wolf's ability to survive. According to the EU guidelines, Gybs is to be turned into a figure. These guidelines are not legally binding. The Parliament has decided that Gybs can be in the span 170 – 270 individuals. However, the directive's only reference to figures is that the vulnerability analysis should show long-term chances of survival, i.e. MVP. In the fourth paragraph, the minister writes that 100 wolves should be the lowest number for the Swedish wolf tribe. That's wrong. There is no Swedish wolf tribe. We have a Scandinavian wolf tribe. All scientists agree on that. MVP is also not a measure of when the wolf tribe will die out. So the wolf tribe would be fine if it were 93 individuals or 87 individuals. MVP means that it is less than 10 percent risk of extinction in 100 years. In addition, MVP was originally in Skandulv's report set to 43 animals, but it chose to add recurring disaster scenarios and decided that MVP would be 100. SLU has also conducted studies on what the same starting point, 100 animals, would give for risk over 1,000 years. They concluded that there was a risk of extinction of just a few per mil. On the other hand, if Gybs of 300 agrees with an MVP of 100, we can take out at least 80 wolves in winter 2020, which would be fantastic for both wolf and rural survival. In the fifth paragraph, the Minister refers to the so-called State Secretary Agreement, which was signed in 2011. Following the signing of the agreement, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Norwegian Directorate for Nature Management have developed guidelines for genetically valuable wolves. The authorities have done so on their own initiative. It states, among other things, that although the territory is not of genetic value, it should be informed of possible withdrawals if the territory is shared between the countries. So here we have a whole Norwegian territory which, moreover, is not genetically valuable. Yet a Swedish authority chooses to go in and try to control Norwegian domestic politics. In conclusion, the Minister writes, "The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has thus acted in accordance with its mission and the agreement that exists between Sweden and Norway. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like They have acted on their own guidelines, which they have then modified to suit their own interests.
i-ea195761617f9116-16	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for this dedicated question! All the so-called inaccuracies that the honourable Member is now pointing out feel like an exercise in their own interpretations of how the wolf tribe should be managed. When it comes to how to classify border territory, there are therefore no established criteria for what is absolutely to be included in it, but this is a practice in which authorities and expert groups assess what is a border territory. In this case, it has been found that the so-called base polygon, which is a specified area in which two alpha animals are moving, accounts for about 20% of a vargrevir. So 80% is outside this base polygon. The fact that, according to previous assessments, there are alpha animals on both Norwegian and Swedish sides of the border is a practice. It can be noted that during last year's inventory there were alpha animals also on the Swedish side in this particular territory. This season a wolf has been seen that by DNA samples has been individually defined as a puppy from the alpha animals in the territory in question. It is an overall expert assessment that has established that this is a border area and is not in conflict with any criteria. The honourable Member then raises questions about what is beneficial conservation status and what is minimum viable population. We can only say that what Parliament has agreed is that we should have a wolf population that makes us have favourable conservation status, and that is also what the Species and Habitats Directive states. After an update from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, we have reported that there are 300 individuals and, as the honourable Member says, we also need genetic renewal from wolves from either Russia or Finland in order for it to be a favourable conservation status, that is, survival, on this population. That is why the reference value today is 300 wolves instead of 270. So we do not manage the wolf in Sweden or Scandinavia after a minimum survival population so that it will not be completely eradicated, but we have a politically set goal that we should have a favourable conservation status for the wolf. There we are right on the verge of what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, our authority, has judged to be the smallest population for us to have a favourable conservation status. Each individual is valuable for us to achieve that goal.
i-ea195761617f9116-25	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is an authority with its own officials. Skandulv is a scientific project, and it is the researchers in Skandulv who have put MVP to 100 animals for Scandinavia. So it is less than 10% of the risk of extinction in 100 years. They're very clear about that. The minister said it was an exercise in his own interpretations. When it comes to the criteria for border territory, the Minister can only go in and read the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's own criteria for what is required of both DNA hits and tracks for it to be classified as a territory and as a border territory. Just go in and read, because it says very clearly. In addition, the Minister mentions that it is a designated area. Yeah, it's a designated area. Here you have crossed over on the Swedish side but you can not find what is required for the territory to be classified as a border territory. So an assumption has been made. We could stand and discuss this forever, but we also have a reality, Isabella Lövin. Rovjursförvaltningen has fallen completely, and confidence in the policies pursued and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency cannot decrease. When the wolf came back, officials at the Environmental Protection Agency said, "Let it be ten wolves! Then I'll let you go hunting. Then they changed to: Let it be ten pairs! Then there were ten rejuvenations. At least 13 times in 40 years the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has gone with untruth only to calm despaired farmers, hunters and residents who live and work in vargrevir. ♪ Put the dog on the line ♪ There's two wolves in the drive! This was the message in the hunting radio of the neighbouring hunting team shortly after they started their moose hunt on the Norwegian side last week. This was the start of the moose hunt in 2019. Shortly thereafter, they found remnants of two recent elk calves. This means an incredibly boring start to something that has previously been one of the absolute highlights not least in the countryside, not only in the border region towards Norway but in the whole of Värmland and Sweden. Värmland was the moose county in front of everyone else, and we had a large and viable tribe. But it was then. Now there's only debris left. Last Sunday a wolf was seen passing five kilometers from my home, where it crossed the road. Yesterday morning two of them crossed the road less than a kilometre from home in between residential buildings. It's everyday for us. That is the reality in which we live. That is the burden that we have to bear as a result of the total breakdown of predator management. The Minister read something in his reply about socio-economic considerations. It has still not been seen, Madam President. Half of the vargrevir that affects Sweden is located in Värmland. In what way should the Minister of the Environment thank the Heaters for bearing the burden of harboring such a large part of the Scandinavian wolf tribe? In what way should the warmers be rewarded after all these years? When will this socio-economic consideration be taken into account?
i-ea195761617f9116-35	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the questions, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! I think we still need to agree that we have a decision in the Swedish Parliament that we should have a favourable conservation status for the wolf population. When I was a child and went to middle school, there were four wolves left in all of Sweden. The wolf was acutely endangered. This is not something that is unique to Sweden or Scandinavia. We see how predators and mammals, as well as fish and other species throughout the world, are endangered. Many of us care for predators in other countries and other continents, such as tigers, snow leopards and other animals that also invade and compete with locals in various ways for food. If we want a biodiversity and a functioning ecosystem that is important, not least in view of the enormous extinction of species that we are looking at all over the world today, we will have to accept this. Here we need to find compromises and common living opportunities for residents and others who are active in forestry and agriculture and the animals that we are actually also committed to protecting by signing international conventions and making decisions in this House. Returning to the honourable Member's original question and the criteria that I think are important, it is that both of these alphas have been traced very close to the realm limit. When a so - called base polygon, the minimum size of a vargrevir, is drawn, it crosses the rich limit. The year before, the alpha animals were identified on both sides of the border, and from observations and tracks similar movement patterns have been seen from the leader couple these two winters, despite the fact that a new male took over the territory last winter. A wolf bitch, as I said, has, through DNA samples, been individualized as a puppy from the alpha animals and this season has been traced from Sweden across the border into Norway. Based on an overall expert assessment, which does not conflict with any criteria, the Norwegian and Swedish authorities are in complete agreement in the conclusion that Römskogsreviret is classified as a border territory. There is an agreement between Sweden and Norway, and exactly that agreement has been followed by asking the Swedish authorities if they think it is good to start hunting in this territory – which is a border territory. This is an agreement reached by the Swedish and Norwegian governments in 2011, i.e. on the management of genetically valuable wolves in the Scandinavian wolf population. So a question has been asked to the Swedish authorities, and they have answered no, on the basis that there is now a wolf population that is right on the verge of what has been classified as a favourable conservation status.It would be unfortunate to shoot these wolves, which are both Swedish and Norwegian according to the definitions that we and the expert group agree on. This is a responsible wolf management, and we have every interest in being able to cooperate with our neighbours with whom we share the wolf populations.
i-ea195761617f9116-43	Madam President, I would like So the very clear criteria developed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency do not apply? Why, then, has the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency developed the criteria? The fact that the wolf has been very close to the border does not mean that it is a border territory. It's clear. Yes, we have made a decision in the Riksdag on favourable conservation status. It's perfectly clear. The Parliament decided that it would be between 170 and 270. Then the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has acted on its own initiative after that. In 1965 the wolf was outlawed, and in 1966 it was protected. In Swedish predator policy, we have gone from ditch to ditch. The minister said it should be a responsible wolf administration. Who is responsible for this? It's not for the people who live, live and work in vargrevir. The hardest thing, Madam President, is when you make fun of people's perceived feelings and sneeze at them. The quality of life of people living in the countryside has fallen drastically. The greatest recreational interest for many is totally destroyed. You don't dare let babies play alone out there anymore. People are devastated by the path taken, and it will only continue with the policy the government is still pursuing. Värmland has just under 50 per cent of Sweden's wolf trunk on its surface. We are not being listened to, and we are not being taken seriously. That, Madam President, is not responsible for either the wolf or man. Unfortunately, the wolf is the one who ultimately gets the most hurt when the government fails to assume its responsibilities.
i-ea195761617f9116-47	Madam President, I would like Well, the government really takes this issue seriously. The honourable Member and I were in the Chamber less than a week ago and had a small exchange of words on the issue of protection hunting. There is an opportunity to turn to the county administrative board and point out that there are wolves that threaten livestock or people and request protection hunting. It is a responsible wolf management that wolves or other predators cannot threaten children or property when avoidable. As everyone understands, this is a balancing act because we must also safeguard biodiversity for succeeding generations. In a dramatic way, we have experienced that there is an ability to completely eradicate animal species, and the Scandinavian wolf was very close to total extinction in the 1960s and early 1970s. The administration says that 300 individuals are beneficial conservation status, but a genetic replenishment is also needed. I would like to return to the question of criteria, as the honourable Member repeats the question. It is therefore not a question of defined criteria, but an assessment by an expert group. In this case, a group of experts has concluded that this territory should be seen as a border territory based on all the parameters I have described in the past. Then our authority has acted fully in accordance with the agreement that exists with Norway.
i-ea195761617f9116-49	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson has asked me whether, despite the deterioration of relations and the fact that no other European government has followed, the unilateral recognition of a Palestinian state was reasonable and proper in substance, what I and the government think should be done to guarantee Israel's national security and self-defence against the dictatorships and terrorist groups whose declared aim is to wipe out the Jewish people, and what the government's strategy to restore the destroyed relations and restore confidence between Sweden and Israel looks like. In his interpellation Lars Adaktusson has asked questions that suggest that Swedish politics in relation to Israel is an extreme, that Sweden is alone in its positions. That's not true. The policy is based on international law and UN resolutions, which form the basis of EU and UN Israel and Palestine policies. The Swedish recognition of Palestine in 2014 was preceded by the recognition of 134 countries, including Iceland in 2011. In addition to Sweden's recognition, 8 EU Member States have already recognised Palestine. Sweden's recognition was, of course, not directed at Israel but was done as part of our work for a negotiated two-state solution with a Palestine and an Israel living side by side in peace and security. In answer to the question whether this is reasonable and correct, the answer is yes. The government is clear that Sweden stands up for Israel's legitimate security needs. This includes the right to defend oneself against threats and attacks by, among other things, terrorist organisations and state actors. This is something that the EU also clearly expresses in a number of Council conclusions, which Sweden supports. The EU is also clear that a fundamental change in Israel's policy towards the occupied Palestinian area would improve the stability and security of both Israelis and Palestinians. Sweden unequivocally condemns terrorism and all statements calling into question Israel's right to exist within safe and recognised borders. The government will always stand up for and defend international law. For example, the UN and the EU, and therefore Sweden, are clear that Israeli settlements on occupied land are illegal. We will continue to stand up for humanitarian law. The relationship with Israel is important and something that the government naturally defends. Sweden strives for broad cooperation with Israel. I had a constructive meeting with Israel's ambassador Ilan Ben-Ben-Dov just a few days after I took office as Foreign Minister. There are issues where Sweden and the Israeli Government have different views. Palestine recognition is one of them. The fact that we have different views on certain issues makes the dialogue even more important. One of the foundations of Swedish foreign policy over time and under different governments has been to seek dialogue even with countries and actors with whom we do not always agree on all issues. We must, of course, be able to maintain an international legal approach to the conflict and, at the same time, have a good and constructive relationship with Israel. Sweden has a close and increased exchange with Israel in several areas. These include culture, trade and innovation. This includes not least the important work in the fight against anti-Semitism. Swedish teachers are educated about the Holocaust and anti-Semitism at Yad Vashem in Jerusalem. And as part of the work against anti-Semitism, next year in October the Prime Minister will host an international high-level forum on the remembrance of the Holocaust. I recently discussed the work against anti-Semitism with the AJC, the American Jewish Committee, which I met at the UN General Assembly in New York.
i-ea195761617f9116-57	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by congratulating Ann Linde on her important mission as Foreign Minister. At the same time, I would like to thank you for the answer to my interpellation. The Christian Democrats welcome the ambition expressed by Ann Linde regarding the importance of good relations with Israel. There is no doubt that one of the reasons for the breakdown of relations is the Swedish recognition of a Palestinian state. This decision was taken unilaterally by the Red-Green Government, despite the fact that it is a matter that must be decided by the parties themselves in direct negotiations. No other country's government has chosen to follow Sweden. The EU countries that have recognised a Palestinian state did so over 30 years ago, long before they were even envisaged as members of the European Union. In the number 134 countries mentioned by the Foreign Minister, a large majority are non-democrats with authoritarian and not infrequently anti-Israeli regimes: China, Russia, Cuba, Vietnam, Venezuela, North Korea, Zimbabwe, Iran, etc. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that the questions in my interpellation suggest that Swedish politics in relation to Israel is an extreme. I can understand that. What I and many with me note and, at the same time, regret is that Sweden deviates from the circle of Western democracies. For several years, Ann Linde's representative has been the only 28 foreign ministers in the EU countries who were not welcome to visit the only democracy in the Middle East. According to the government, the recognition was made to make the parties in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict more equal. This approach ignores the real imbalance: that between democracy and dictatorship. Israel, with barely 9 million inhabitants, is surrounded by nearly half a billion people living under authoritarian regimes. In addition, a number of the world's worst terrorist groups surround the country. The recognition of a Palestinian state was applauded by the dictatorships and terrorist organisations. This weakened democracy as well as the incentives for negotiating peace. Madam President, I would like Against this background, I regret that Ann Linde maintains that the Swedish recognition was reasonable and correct. Reconstructing relations with Israel requires understanding of what caused the problems. But self - examination is also required. Unfortunately, this is missing from the Foreign Minister's speech. It also answers the question of the government's strategy for re-establishing relations with Israel. I would like to ask Ann Linde again: is there such a strategy, and what does it look like?
i-ea195761617f9116-64	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Adaktusson, who addresses important issues in this interpellation! Of course, the government protects good relations with both Palestine and Israel. Sweden's recognition of Palestine, which I support and which was decided by the whole government, is part of the work for a two-state solution. It also confirms the Palestinians' right to self-determination. The recognition is not directed against Israel. This does not change how Sweden views the importance of a negotiated two-state solution, including borders and security for Israel. It will be up to the two – now hopefully a little less unequal – parties to negotiate on this. With regard to those who have recognised Palestine, I am not entirely sure that Malta, Iceland and Cyprus would appreciate being called authoritarian or not considered Western democracies. Because of our recognition, Sweden can also place higher demands on Palestine. We are in constant dialogue with the Palestinian leadership. There we stress the importance of elections being conducted – something the Palestinian President also mentioned in the UN General Assembly that it should be conducted – and that it respects human rights and acts in a way that promotes peace negotiations with Israel. Support and call for universal elections are a means of countering the militant extremism that unfortunately exists in parts of Palestine. We share the position of the EU and the UN that although the main obstacle to development is the occupation, it is a series of measures that the Palestinians must and should take. EU policy makes it clear that the only way to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is through an agreement ending the occupation and meeting the expectations of both parties. In line with this position, the government will continue to argue that both Israelis and Palestinians should be able to live in security, peace and freedom. As long as the occupation continues, Israel has special obligations. These obligations, too, will continue to be borne in mind by the UN, the EU and thus the government as long as necessary. Similarly, criticism will continue to be voiced when violations of international humanitarian law and human rights are committed by the Israeli occupying power, just as we point out when terrorist attacks or anything else come from the Palestinian side. Lars Adaktusson calls our line one-sided criticism. I don't agree with that. We criticise both sides when called for. The continuing illegal expansion of settlements, forced displacements of Palestinian families and children and the demolition of Palestinian homes and villages are being criticised because we think that criticism is justified. The clarity of the UN and the EU cannot be mistaken, and the government agrees.
i-ea195761617f9116-74	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Foreign Affairs is clear that Sweden stands up for Israel's legitimate security needs. I think it is important, and it is welcome that the Foreign Minister is clear on this point. At the same time, the Christian Democrats believe that more is needed. There is a need for a different approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Ann Linde talks a lot about the occupation and the settlements. There are, of course, major issues that require a solution, and it is, of course, perfectly legitimate to question the Israeli Government's policy in this area. It also happens – not least in Israel, where hard debate is part of the democratic everyday life. I don't think the problem is that criticism. The problem is a one-sided approach and a lack of understanding of what is the root cause of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In 1948 and 1967 the Arab countries joined forces in extensive military action against Israel. At the time there was no occupation or settlements. The motive for the attack was another, clearly formulated by the Arab leadership of the time: to wipe out the Jewish state and thus the Jewish people. The existential threat to Israel existed in 1948 and 1967, and there are still today, pronounced by terrorist organisations and dictatorship regimes in the immediate vicinity of Israel. Do we not want to realise this and that the occupation and settlements are symptoms of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, not its cause, I believe that we are reducing opportunities for dialogue, negotiations and good relations with Israel. The Foreign Minister says that a fundamental change in Israel's policy would improve stability and security. Surely there are parts of Israel's policy that need to be changed. But what would happen if the forces that threaten Israel changed? How is it that the government conveys the picture that the problems would be solved if Israel changed, not if the dictatorships and totalitarian systems around them changed? Madam President, I would like In my interpellation, I ask the question what the government thinks needs to be done to guarantee Israel's national security and the right to self-defense – what I started with. This is a crucial issue. All of us who work for improved relations between Sweden and Israel are sincerely interested in the foreign minister's response to it.
i-ea195761617f9116-81	Madam President, I would like Sweden has historically good relations with Israel. We have, as Lars Adaktusson says several times, a series of common interests, which allowed me to go to Israel in my role as Minister of Trade at the time and to set up an innovation scout at the Swedish Embassy, and to have a very good meeting with Israel's Minister of Innovation, where we discussed common issues. It is very clear that in matters such as trade – which we want more and not less of – culture and so on have had no problems. But what I think is a reasonable decision to make the two parties, Israel and Palestine, more equal, namely to recognise Palestine so that there can be two states, has had very strong reactions from Israel. This, of course, affects our relationship, and I want it to improve. The fact that we have different views as to whether the recognition of Palestine should take place separately or within the framework of a negotiated solution should not stand in the way of this. It will not be better for mere errors, such as the fact that we would not stand up for Israel's legitimate security needs or that we would not want Israel to protect itself and its people. We are unequivocal in our support for Israel's security needs. Israel's right to exist is not negotiable. We condemn the terrorist acts and attacks against Israel. For example, Sweden voted in favour of the US resolution in the UN General Assembly condemning activities by Hamas and other militant groups in Israel. This is a clear position on the matter. As Lars Adaktusson probably knows, I have been in both Israel and Palestine on countless occasions, both as a private person and as a political representative, and I am very fond of both. I've been to Sderot and seen one of Hamas' rockets land next to a preschool. I understand the fear you have and the fact that you feel the threat, and I neither fail nor question in any way that Israel wants its security guarantees. I think it's obvious. However, I do not think that is contrary to the fact that Israel should not continue its occupation, which is contrary to international law, or that the Palestinians should also have the right to live safely within recognised borders. It is a very tough debate inside Israel, just as Lars Adaktusson says, and it is also what makes the country so vital and makes it so fun to be there and have close political contacts. Another issue that I think is important is that we try to ensure that the Palestinians have better opportunities to participate in a peace process, for example through support for Unrwa. There the leadership is now problematic, but many of the Arab countries that I met at the UN at a special lunch about this raised precisely the fact that among those who attend Unrwa's training almost no one is found participating in attacks, terrorist acts or anything like that. If this aid were to be removed, the situation in Israel would worsen.
i-ea195761617f9116-88	Madam President, I would like It is refreshing to hear a Social Democratic Foreign Minister speak well of Israel. That's very good! At the same time, I do not have an answer to my question about the strategy for re-establishing relations. When it comes to a two-state solution, I would like to say that this is the reasonable way to settle this conflict. However, in order to achieve the objective of a two-state solution, a Palestinian leadership is required that is willing and able to contribute to a settlement. For a long time now, we know that this is missing. I believe that if the Swedish Government and we in Sweden generally want to contribute to a two-state solution, the best way to do this is to increase the political pressure on the Palestinian leadership. Through development cooperation and trade, there is an opportunity to make clear demands for change. It is not only a call for willingness to negotiate but also for concrete steps to prepare the Palestinian people for negotiations, compromises and, eventually, a peace settlement with Israel. I think we need to be frank and clear. Do not stop the ongoing terrorist support and the spread of anti-Semitism, in the long run, means that dialogue and negotiations will not be an option in the longer term. Let us, from the Swedish side, work together to prevent such development.
i-ea195761617f9116-92	Madam President, I would like I agree with Lars Adaktusson. We need negotiations and compromises. But that also means that we must be clear about what we think is in the way of a two-state solution. As we see it, it is precisely that there are so different parties because Palestine is occupied and does not have a country of its own, and hence our recognition. There is no doubt that we must have meaningful peace negotiations, and then we must work to support both sides. Lars Adaktusson addresses anti-Semitism, and that is one of the important issues we can work with here in Sweden. Now in October, the Prime Minister will invite you to a major conference on anti-Semitism in Malmö, and he will participate in an activity in Israel in January. Both I and Minister of Education Anna Ekström participated as speaker at the 20th anniversary of a concrete outcome of the previous Holocaust Conference, held 20 years ago in Sweden, namely the Paideia People's College – The European Institute for Jewish Studies in Sweden. I hope, of course, that there will be even more concrete results from the conference to be held in October. We believe in having a dialogue in which not everyone agrees, and I very much hope that this great disagreement will not make it impossible for me to visit Israel as a foreign minister, because that is my absolute wish. I very much hope that, as Foreign Minister, I will be able to visit both Palestine and Israel.
