i-5494e32e83085a07-0	Madam President, I would like A number of decision-makers are about to create one of the biggest administrative policy disasters in modern Swedish history. That is not something I say for dramatic reasons, but that is where we stand in the case of one of the country's largest authorities. In recent years, the Public Employment Service has undergone major changes. But in the midst of a large and difficult reorganization in itself, the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats decided through their napkin sketch budget for a completely ill-considered cut in the agency's appropriations. The result was a huge notice of 4,500 employees and plans to close every three offices. The government, for its part, has refused to take responsibility for this situation. Instead, the 73-point programme has committed itself to implementing a neo-liberal privatisation bond. And the government's amending budget does not mention the Employment Service at all. It is irresponsible, and that is unacceptable. That is why the Left Party has asked for this debate.
i-5494e32e83085a07-3	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a strong labour market and declining unemployment. Employment services and labour market policies play an important role in the proper functioning of the labour market. There are about 1 million people who sign up for Arbetsförmedlingen every year. Some 350 000 of these people get jobs every year, and about 50 000 of them go on to regular education. Many people are therefore covered by the Employment Service's activities. The employment services have had a development in which the results have substantially improved, but not in all parts. Today they have a rather complex and difficult mission. 75% of those enrolled are deemed to belong to particularly vulnerable groups. A problem for Arbetsförmedlingen is a recurring low level of public confidence. This is a concern because such an important activity and authority that embraces and affects so many people need strong public confidence. But it hasn't increased. Another recurring problem is that for a long time there has been a lack of a stable majority in the Riksdag for the development of the Employment Service. Now, in the four parties that are behind the January agreement, we are implementing together a major reform of the Swedish Public Employment Service. There will be more of a labour market agency. It will be a more pure mission, but still a comprehensive mission. The job agency's task will be to assess the needs of individuals and to make a labour market policy assessment of those individuals who need enhanced support to get to work. The Public Employment Service will be responsible for the exercise of public authority, both in the case of independent actors and in the case of individuals. The Public Employment Service will be responsible for procurement and ranking and for removing other actors who do not meet the standards. The Public Employment Service will provide forecasts and matching infrastructure, such as the many digital services in Platsbanken, but also the growing number of other digital services that more and more people are using today. It can be webinars, web trainings and many other things. But it will also be about things like recruitment meetings. Arbetsförmedlingen will continue to be responsible for cooperation with other authorities, such as an important collaboration with Försäkringskassan but also other authorities. The Employment Service will continue to be responsible for cooperation with the municipalities. Each municipality should know who to call at Arbetsförmedlingen if you are affected by large notice or other difficult situations where you need Arbetsförmedlingen's support. But much of the matching and armament of the unemployed will be carried out by other actors, and they will be paid based on results. This is already happening today. About 60% is currently being carried out by other actors than the Public Employment Service itself, and this will be increased. This means, of course, that fewer workers will be needed, as more work will be done by other actors. Madam President, I would like However, we are in a very difficult situation because the reform is now to be implemented in the wrong order, because we are starting from a budget voted by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, which represents an abrupt and very large cut in resources for labour market policy. This means that we now have a very difficult situation with 4 500 people who gave notice and a big discussion about the offices. I will come back to this in the next speech.
i-5494e32e83085a07-13	Madam President, I would like There are two figures – two facts – on which this debate and this issue are concerned. One is 11⁄2 percent, and the other is about 10 percent – or perhaps more correctly 9 81⁄2 percent and 90 percent. 11⁄2 per cent, Madam President, are so many of the jobs provided by the Employment Service's staff. 98 1⁄2 percent was thus communicated in another way. 10 per cent found jobs through Arbetsförmedlingen, most of them by looking in Platsbanken. 90 per cent found a new job without any help from the Employment Service at all. All of this is according to official statistics and facts. Madam President, I would like In addition to this, when you ask the Swedish people, Arbetsförmedlingen has the lowest confidence of all Swedish authorities. The Authority also has the lowest level of support for its entire raison d'être and is also least attractive as an employer. This, Madam President, is neither acceptable nor sustainable. That is why Arbetsförmedlingen must be fundamentally changed and phased out in its current function. It is good that we have suddenly gained an even broader consensus in the Riksdag about the line that the Moderates, among other things, have taken. There was already a majority in the Riksdag in favour of this line, and now the Social Democrats and the Green Party have also made a turnaround and joined it. We propose a new state authority that is primarily responsible for the exercise of authority, control and monitoring. Instead, the match and the armament should be run mainly by other actors in both the private sector and civil society. These should be paid after delivery, and this means delivery for the job seekers. It is for their sake that we must make this change. In the light of the figures I started with, 11⁄2 per cent and 10 per cent, it goes without saying that the demands on these actors will be many times higher – to put it mildly – than they have ever been at Arbetsförmedlingen. Madam President, I would like People, especially the long-term unemployed, must be given more and more effective measures that lead to jobs and self-sufficiency, not as they do today, expensive and inefficient measures.
i-5494e32e83085a07-18	Madam President, I would like We welcome this debate, which the Left Party has initiated. It is an important question that requires an answer, and there are some question marks hanging in the air. We hope to have the answers here today. When the Agency was founded more than a hundred years ago, it served its purpose well. It has played a central role in the Swedish labour market throughout the 20th century, but today the Authority does not meet the needs of the market. According to IFAU, 94% of municipalities have created their own tools for finding labour. In principle, 83% of private companies do not even have contact with the authority when applying for staff for their businesses. Four per cent of those enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen say that they have obtained a job through the agency. 12 percent of those enrolled believe that they have confidence in the authority, which is, of course, a very low figure. This is a problem. The last few decades have also chosen to make some investments in systems and programmes that have actually been disastrous in an increasingly digitised world. I would like to highlight one example, namely the platform Jobskills. It took three years to develop and cost over SEK 90 million. The purpose of the platform was to enter new arrivals to give the labour market an opportunity to employ them. It was a flop, much because it violated the EU Data Protection Directive GDPR, so it had to close the programme completely after three years. This is just one example of a number of flops that have been made, and this perhaps shows some structural problems in the agency. This also applies to all those citizens who have been wrongly paid out recently, as we can read about in the media. However, we must not forget that the Public Employment Service acts on instructions from the Government. There may therefore be reasons for some self-criticism at times. As we see it, Arbetsförmedlingen does not perform its task satisfactorily, and that picture probably shares most – at least with regard to certain parts of the authority. The question will therefore be how to move forward and how to act in order to have a more effective system for the Swedish labour market, and that is why we have gathered here today. We welcome the discussion.
i-5494e32e83085a07-23	Madam President, I would like I would really like to thank Ali Esbati and the Left for the initiative for this debate. We need to debate Arbetsförmedlingen. To all those who say that politicians never do anything but just talk and do not get to grips with the problems, let me say: After so many years of failed reorganisations, cyber failures and, above all, as Mats Green from the Moderates said, 97 – 98% in practice have not got a job through the work of the Public Employment Service, today we are finally doing what has been achieved in those places where a lot of resources are spent on the unemployed but also get a lot out of them – Australia, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. We use the money to really get results for each unemployed person. We let the non-profit forces in with the ideas and efficiency, but we only pay after results – and most of all to those who have the toughest. So we give them priority. We also distinguish Arbetsförmedlingen as a public authority and make sure that the intermediaries provide jobs and not just as today, that the bureaucracy conveys measures. When we do such a thing, the forces of conservatism in all its various forms, whether it be the Left Party or the Labour Service's own bureaucracy, will naturally resist and make it harder for us. But to all those who today think that we should go back and defend the old bureaucracy, I say: please, focus on the unemployed! That is our responsibility, not in the bureaucracy and not in the dogmas. After all, the employment agency is designed to protect the most vulnerable in society, those who really struggle to get into the heat and start a new life. So every penny we waste on bureaucracy is taken from the unemployed. Every penny that doesn't deliver results to the unemployed is a lost crown for those who have the toughest. Every time we put bureaucracy first, we should think of the hundreds of thousands of vulnerable unemployed who today do not enter the labour market even at the peak of a boom. Will it be perfect? No. Will it be better than today? Undoubtedly, yes. It must not be this bad, and it has become so much better in other countries. Will we in the Center Party push forward until the Employment Service has been reformed and delivers for the unemployed? Absolutely – we owe it to them.
i-5494e32e83085a07-29	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago I had the opportunity to meet the Swedish Association of Visually Impaired. It was an alarming meeting. We know that the Swedish Public Employment Service's support for people with disabilities has already left a lot to be desired, but now they were worried about how the extensive reduction would affect an already very vulnerable group. One concrete question was, for example, how it will be with travel services if you have to go to an AF office outside the municipality's borders after one in three offices has disappeared. Another question was who should invest in work-based rehabilitation, which requires follow-up over time. A third was how it will be with the specialists that there should be more of, not less. The term "total disaster" was used when the risks came to light. At the same time you can read about the deaf consuls Malin Winther and Jeanette Lindevall. They are two out of only 14 deaf consuls at AF throughout Sweden. The paper writes: The only thing they know today is that they will be fewer. In addition to uncertainty about their own future, they face a great deal of anxiety among customers. "And we can't answer their questions," says Malin Winther. ..................................................... The same concern was recently expressed in a debate article by six leading representatives of the disability movement. That is the reality of this balling with budget lines and responsibilities. What do the blue-brown napkin sketches say about this? What do the government and its neoliberal companions say? Madam President, I would like Of course, far more people are affected by the combination of reducing and privatising AF, but basically it is about the whole of Swedish labour market policy. In recent decades, especially after right-wing government access in 2006, labour market policy has been characterised by a kind of individualised penal philosophy. It is reduced compensation and reduced entry conditions in the unemployment fund. Efforts with care for the individual's situation have given way to more of cheaper mass interventions. The Left Party was involved in pushing through some improvements during the last parliamentary term, but much more would have been needed. Now, then, the government wants to move in the opposite direction again – a direction that exacerbates the problems rather than tackle them. Sweden needs a coherent employment service aimed at making people stronger, not an authority that is pure control, punishment and procurement. The staff at Arbetsförmedlingen should be given the opportunity to spend their time meeting job seekers and local employers so that they can find openings and opportunities. The Public Employment Service should organise more training and preparatory work and be able to devote more to regular training than is currently the case. All these things there are ideas and knowledge of. There could have been resources for them, but there isn't. Instead, AF is now thrown into chaos with the hope that the invisible hand of the market will sort out the situation for people that society is already pushing economically and socially without offering help. It is particularly sad that this is to be done under a Social Democratic-led government.
i-5494e32e83085a07-39	Madam President, I would like Several societal changes have brought new challenges to the Public Employment Service. Today, a larger proportion of those enrolled are further away from the labour market compared to the previous one, while there are labour shortages in several sectors. The current structures of the Public Employment Service are simply not adapted to today's labour market, and few feel that the agency is functioning well today. The appropriations allocated by the Employment Service have increased dramatically in recent years, while the number of jobs transferred has remained very small. The need for efficiency improvements and the fact that the public authority should be given a narrower mandate is therefore a logical consequence. Today, matching is largely carried out in other ways and not infrequently through independent actors, where staffing and recruitment companies play a growing role. The need for a public operator to carry out work no longer exists in the same way. On the other hand, the need to increase employment among those furthest from the labour market by means of various measures remains. Madam President, I would like Employers testify to recruitments that have failed because it is simply impossible to find candidates with the right education or work experience. As a result, employers cannot find the skills needed to ensure competitiveness. The public sector does not find labour to maintain quality. It is a two-tier labour market, where too large a group of jobseekers do not enter the labour market and where too large a group is at risk of falling into long-term unemployment. Work training and preparatory work are crucial here. These are actions that should be led by the Public Employment Service and which can be carried out by the public sector, by the non-profit sector or by work integration social enterprises. The proportion of people enrolled as unemployed and belonging to the so-called vulnerable groups has increased in recent years and was in 2017 approximately 75 per cent of those enrolled. The situation of persons with disabilities is particularly serious, with long processing times and inadequate rehabilitation. This is particularly serious, Madam President, because in every person there is a need to feel a sense of community with others, to take responsibility and to develop as a person. That is why labour market policy is also about more than socio-economic efficiency. The Christian Democrats want to see a society that takes advantage of people's opportunities and their inherent abilities. Man's value is not in how much he works or how productive he is, but the importance of labor for the individual's development is great. People who remain outside the labour market for a long time are at risk of isolation and self-esteem is at risk of breaking down. Finally, Madam President, the Christian Democrats will be closely monitoring the forthcoming transition. For us, it is essential that the dualisation of the labour market, the entry of foreign born people into the labour market, the lack of skills and the position of disabled people are addressed particularly carefully.
i-5494e32e83085a07-48	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Ali Esbati for the debate, despite his sad debate with insinuations that there would be a blue-brown bloc. I will raise the level of debate and not accuse Ali Ali's party of marching with communists on May 1st. This gives me the opportunity to tell you how we liberals want to reform the labour market. Although Sweden is in a strong boom, over 300 000 individuals are outside the labour market. It is primarily foreign born – mainly foreign-born women – but also young people who do not have a job and the opportunity to support themselves. Despite the fact that the agency receives huge resources, tens of billions of dollars a year are wasted on operations that do not work. The government's additional services are a clear example of labour market policy efforts that will be expensive, ineffective and without any results. But with the January agreement, which has been concluded between the government parties, us Liberals and the Center Party, we are now taking a step away from this type of wrong-priority action. Today, barely 2 per cent of jobs are distributed through the Employment Service. This is a waste of labour and opportunities for integration that concerns us liberals. Either we have a job agency that actually provides jobs or we shift the responsibility to another player who can handle this responsibility. We Liberals, the Center Party and the government parties have landed in the latter conclusion. Madam President, I would like We Liberals are not interested in private actors because they are private players. We want a system in which independent actors are given responsibility for matching and equipping job seekers to get into work. The employment agency will remain in place and continue to have responsibility for labour market policy, but the agency will continue to focus on the exercise of authority. It would be a lie if I told you that we Liberals are not concerned about developments in recent months. To diet the authority is necessary, but it must be done at a pace that does not create uncertainty. This has been done in a spirit without analysis. It is in the light of these concerns that we have now worked out a mission to give the reform of the Public Employment Service a clearer focus. It is a process that will take time, but the time until then must not be wasted. Therefore, it is now important to take the necessary responsibility for a functioning state labour market policy. This is the only way to reduce the exclusion that affects so many people who lack jobs and the possibility of self-sufficiency. Madam President, I would like The speaking time is short. In my second speech, I will explain why we Liberals oppose the participation of municipalities in state labour market policy as an external actor.
i-5494e32e83085a07-58	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing the major changes that the Public Employment Service is facing. The Authority shall be scaled down and digitised and the responsibility for matching shall be placed on private operators. We will have to evaluate these changes as and when. As we all know, the reform of the Employment Service is the result of a political compromise. But what would it have been like if the Green Party itself had been able to decide the way forward in the labour market? A green labour market policy is different from that of other parties because we are not so easily caught up in ideological locks. Green policy is often about turning the perspective and always focusing on sustainability. Today's labour market is not sustainable. You can always work a little more, and you never have enough things. Society is divided into those who have a permanent service and those who do not. There are increasing reports of mental illness caused by stress. Today's labour market is tearing out both man and the planet. More and more people are calling for a more sustainable way of life, where the pace is slower, where relationships with other people can take place and where there is room for things that make us feel good. More and more people are looking for a sustainable way of working and living. Madam President, I would like How is this linked to the future role of Arbetsförmedlingen? Yes, we must start from a sustainability point of view in all policies, not least in terms of the labour market. In times of mental illness and climate crisis, we must dare to question old truths. Because there are no jobs on a dead planet.
i-5494e32e83085a07-64	Madam President, I would like There are many ideological, cross-confident statements in the debate. In fact, I believe that good labour market policies can be organised in several different ways. It is rarely the case that there is only one way that works. I believe that we should adopt a pragmatic approach and be prepared to reconsider things that do not work and continue with things that work. It is with this attitude that I am entering into the reform work that is now going on with Arbetsförmedlingen. Madam President, I would like It is the Riksdag that decides on the state budget, and the Riksdag did so in December on a very poor basis. The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats set the framework for the state's activities, and these must be followed by the government and the authorities. That is what has resulted in one of the largest public notices since the defence closure. 4,500 people are given notice at Arbetsförmedlingen. Of course there are consequences. But even if we have to comply with the budget decided by Parliament, I am now the Minister for Labour, and I am responsible for doing so as well as possible on the basis of these conditions. An important issue is the presence throughout the country. We will ensure that Arbetsförmedlingen has a presence and can provide support to the unemployed throughout the country. The Employment Service should be able to make labour market policy assessments in the municipalities where people live when needed. This means that you come there for a booked meeting and do not have to travel far away, as Ali Esbati mentioned as an example. You should normally be able to get an assessment in your municipality of residence. There will be a number of municipalities that do not have AF offices. Already today, 50 of the offices are not manned. Then you can question what you need an office for. Instead, we will solve with state service offices where the Public Employment Service will be a co-operator. They will become an important player in many municipalities. In other places you may rent in with the municipality to get there one or two days a week to meet the unemployed. We should also know that the government has decided that before deciding on the closure of offices, the Public Employment Service must carry out an impact assessment of the closure of this particular office and tell us what alternative possibilities exist. This means that we do not yet know in which locations the Employment Service will have its own offices and in which places it will instead have, for example, service offices.
i-5494e32e83085a07-70	Madam President, I would like You don't really know where to start considering that Ylva Johansson was one of those who before the election the hardest went out and promised that they would never ever happen. Now Ylva Johansson stands here and blames the M-KD budget and says that it was forced forward. It came about a month before the January agreement, where you were very clear that you would do all this. When Ylva Johansson is frustrated and intrusively trying to explain this outwardly, she refers to the fact that it is the budget that is the reason why we now have to cut down heavily on Arbetsförmedlingen and reduce the number of offices. Then I can only ask the question: why has the government not added more money to the Public Employment Service in the budget it presented a few weeks ago? And, once again, the closure of offices is something that should have been carried out anyway, at least if you believe the Director-General of the Employment Service. Again, why has the government not added more money?
i-5494e32e83085a07-73	Madam President, I would like I don't really understand what Mats Green is after here. I have said before and am now saying that there are several ways of getting a well-functioning employment service. There should be a pragmatic approach to how this is to be done. Already today, the Swedish Public Employment Service uses to a large extent other actors than its own – 60% are carried out by private operators. I don't see any huge drama in that it will be more extensive and more result-based. I think it could be very good. The government has contributed resources in the spring change budget during this year to labour market policy. But as Mats Green knows, the scope is limited, because there is already a government budget that applies for 2019. What the government can do in a spring or autumn change budget is limited, and we have had to deal with that.
i-5494e32e83085a07-75	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it was an answer to some question, but it was not an answer to my questions. The government has not restored any resources to the Employment Service at all. That's the harsh truth. The government would have had every opportunity to do that, but they have not. There is a reason for this, and that is that all this is included in the January agreement. Again, the closures of offices could have stopped, but you have not. They are part of the Director General's ambition to change his business – he says so himself – so stop blaming the Moderates and the KD!
i-5494e32e83085a07-78	Madam President, I would like One would have thought that the Moderates, when they put forward a state budget and got it through in parliament, would be a little happy and proud of it. But obviously Mats Green isn't. He does not think it is the budget that the Moderates are behind, but the Director General who is causing the changes in the Public Employment Service. The Director-General has, of course, great influence and power over the authority, but the budget has been decided by Mats Green's party and he himself.
i-5494e32e83085a07-79	Madam President, I would like We have talked about budgets and government decisions here. There is also a daily life where intermediaries and administrators work hard to meet people who are outside the labour market and people who have to relate to AF for their livelihood and future. There's the turbulence already everyday. In the case of pragmatism, there is a need to stop both training and practice and to remove preparatory efforts when there are no private actors who want to implement them. I have mentioned earlier the perceptions of specialists working on disability issues, but there is also notice that goes out over psychologists, behavioural scientists, etcetera. I will be the guarantor that it will not be an accident as with the starters and job coaches, we have heard and read Ylva Johansson say. But now the government has had a budget process with C and L, and the result for AF was nothing. No one knows how to handle this huge privatisation either. My question is: how can Ylva Johansson be the guarantor of chaos and breakdown when AF's activities are already in chaos and breakdown?
i-5494e32e83085a07-82	Madam President, I would like It is a very difficult location with a notice of 4,500 people. I don't want to reduce that worry in any way. But I would also like to say that we actually have a development where more and more people enter digitally and use digital services. It will never suit all job seekers. But of the million who sign up each year, quite a few people think it is a good way and an improved service to be able to have contact with Arbetsförmedlingen in this way. There is also a significant potential for efficiency by finally providing employees at the Public Employment Service with a well-functioning IT system. I'd say you work today in cyber-trash. It offers tremendous opportunities to use the new system. There are opportunities to have a good business with fewer employees. With 9 000 employees at the Employment Service, it is still a large authority, and it is the same number of people who were employed in the Agency ten years ago. I am convinced that it is also possible to carry out a very good operation with 9 000 employees.
i-5494e32e83085a07-85	Madam President, I would like Of course, I don't mind the Swedish Public Employment Service carrying out digitisation projects. Some of them can certainly be excellent. But those projects, which require a lot, will not be easier to implement if every third employee in different places disappears at the same time and if people go away from Arbetsförmedlingen because they do not know what it will be like in the future if specialists, coaches and therapists disappear at the same time. That is what I asked the Minister what he wants to do about it.
i-5494e32e83085a07-86	Madam President, I would like I will also comment on another point raised by Ali Esbati at the beginning of the line change. It is about the resources for action for individuals. I share that concern. It is a reduction of 2.7 billion in the budget decided in December here in Parliament. The government has added 340 extra million to the spring change budget. We decided yesterday to carry over 300 million more from one grant to another in order to be able to have more efforts for the unemployed. This is an area where more efforts are needed.
i-5494e32e83085a07-88	Madam President, I would like The disability group needs special support to establish itself in the labour market or to get the necessary efforts to meet their potential. It is about the assessment of psychologists, occupational therapists and social consultants, to name a few who have special knowledge in understanding the challenges facing disabled people. Director General Mikael Sjöberg has advised more than half of all psychologists about dismissal. The reductions are also strong among occupational therapists. A total of two thirds of all are identified with this type of special competence. This happens at the same time as the rescheduling of Arbetsförmedlingen in January should not affect disabled people – something that we naturally welcome. But how does this make sense? How will the Minister for Labour ensure that the disabled group should not be allowed to deteriorate in support and end up between the chairs in the process of change that we are facing?
i-5494e32e83085a07-92	Madam President, I would like I share the concerns expressed by Sofia Damm. It is worrying that so many specialists who work with people with disabilities are given notice. However, I find it difficult to criticise the Director-General for this because he is obliged to comply with the budget voted by Sofia Damm in Parliament. This means that 4 500 people must be alerted in order to cope with this reduction this year. The government has mitigated this by providing the Public Employment Service with an increased grant credit, which means that it has a little more opportunity to make these decisions. Of course, in the future we will also need many skilled specialists who work with those people who, due to disabilities or ill-health, need special support to enter the labour market. Perhaps Sofia Damm should have thought about this before she voted on that budget.
i-5494e32e83085a07-97	Madam President, I would like I thank Ylva Johansson for his answer. In fact, the price of 4 500 is not entirely proportional to the budget cuts in our budget. Is it not possible for a Director-General to exclude certain specialist groups from the notice? This concerns me when I hear the Director General in the Saturday interview saying that it does not think that this group should be administered by the Public Employment Service.
i-5494e32e83085a07-99	Madam President, I would like It is strange to hear Sofia Damm say that she did not expect these consequences of the budget that you have decided on. It is precisely these consequences that will be, and you have also put forward in your budget a plan for what it will look like in the coming years. A Director-General is obliged to follow it. Now it is I who am responsible and will present the next budget, and I hope to change this path. However, the current budget is the responsibility of Sofia Damm, and the Director-General is obliged to follow it.
i-5494e32e83085a07-102	Madam President, I would like One might wonder what would have happened if Ylva Johansson's reasoning had been transferred to the Director General of Försäkringskassan, but this is a different debate. Let me make four points. First and again, only 11⁄2 percent of jobs were provided by the Employment Service staff. It is 2 1⁄2 jobs per job intermediary and year. It is, of course, totally unsustainable and shows why the Public Employment Service must fundamentally change. Secondly, it is a good thing that we now have an even broader consensus on this after the Social Democrats and the Green Party have completely changed the issue – contrary to what has been said and promised, but much needed, and better late than never. Thirdly, in the light of this reversal, Ylva Johansson and other social democrats are also being heard here today, frustrated and loudly trying to make it appear that the reduction in the number of offices now presented is a consequence of the M-KD budget adopted by the Parliament. Madam President, I would like It's all wrong. If the government had wanted to give the Public Employment Service more resources, it would of course have done so in the spring change budget that was presented the other week. They didn't. It is also wrong because the Director General of the Employment Service clearly stated that even if the government had given more funding to the Public Employment Service, the number of notice would remain to implement the January agreement between S, MP, C and L. Fourthly, we Moderates believe that before a new system is in place, care should be taken to close down offices. There must always be a service close to people in all parts of the country.
i-5494e32e83085a07-108	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd try to understand a little better what Mats Green thinks the Arbetsförmedlingen's task has been. He seems to have the impression that Arbetsförmedlingen's task has been to have jobs in small boxes to give to the job seekers. He returns to the fact that the figures are low, but Arbetsförmedlingen's task has been to carry out an establishment assignment and a matching assignment. The bank he mentioned is not run by external forces but by the Employment Service.
i-5494e32e83085a07-109	Madam President, I would like The task of the employment agency has been matching and armament, and it has failed miserably. I have not yet heard any question about the figures to which I refer. Does Ali Esbati think that these are acceptable results? Even if the results had been double or triple, they can never be acceptable. This is why there is now a broad consensus in Parliament that this must be fundamentally changed.
i-5494e32e83085a07-110	Madam President, I would like I got an answer to my question. Mats Green really doesn't understand what kind of numbers he's talking about. The figures he is talking about do not measure the success of the start-up and matching missions. It is measured in other ways, as is shown in the papers that Mats Green could read if he did not just read the summary. We will have more opportunities to come back to this discussion because Mats Green has taken over the role of spokesperson of the Moderates on these issues.
i-5494e32e83085a07-112	Madam President, I would like In future, I will try not to torment Ali Esbati with too much factual knowledge. Under no circumstances are these results acceptable. The numbers come from the Central Bureau of Statistics, so it's not someone who snuck them out of their noses. These are the facts presented last year, and they apply to 2017. Facts are facts, even for a left-wing party.
i-5494e32e83085a07-114	Madam President, I would like Labour market policy must, of course, cost money. Investments are good and need to be made in the short and long term, but they must also be proportionate to the returns they provide. We agree with what is happening through the January agreement, but we also want to warn against the consequences that are around the corner if this is not done properly. Therefore, I am pleased to hear Minister Ylva Johansson say that people living in rural areas will still have service, be able to book meetings and receive personal supervision. Reductions in local offices in smaller towns would have enormous consequences, not least for those disabled who find it difficult to assimilate the web tools that are the future. We would rather see cuts in the metropolitan regions, because there is both the presence of private actors and better preparedness. We want private actors to take over parts of the agency. We also want municipalities to be more responsible when it comes to contact between education and business. We believe that municipalities have better knowledge of their local business community. We also want to investigate whether there should be a joint compensation authority for the payment of compensation – this in order to improve transparency. We also think that municipalities should take even greater responsibility for adult education. After all, they are already responsible for it, so it makes sense.
i-5494e32e83085a07-118	Madam President, I would like I was going to use this second part to talk a little about the problems we will have now in connection with the reform of the Employment Service, which several have raised. The truth is that several of the previous speakers are right. We have a problem with the M-KD budget that was adopted in Parliament, where we abstained because we believe that this is quite the wrong way to do it. If you are going to redo Arbetsförmedlingen you have to have a ready plan so that everyone knows what they can go after, not just large savings figures that must then be achieved. Hence the problems that we have now that we have started at the wrong end. It concerns the sudden cuts in several places. At the same time, we have a problem with the Arbetsförmedlingen itself having shown a very strange priority. When we make this kind of reform and independent actors should be present throughout the country, we must have a local presence there. You have to be able to book meetings in your own municipality in order for the authority to meet you; it is to get closer to the job seekers that we do this. Instead, the Public Employment Service – that is true – has continued with a centralisation plan and a closure plan that is not in line with the January agreement. That is why we have done what the Government said: we have forced them into impact assessment and into alternatives. Savings in small offices are only a few per mil of Arbetsförmedlingen's budget. It is not even very effective in making savings or transferring resources to the use of private intermediaries. On the contrary, it gets in the way. The same applies to savings on the contribution of people with disabilities, which is also not a real priority within the Authority. You might actually think in this case that both might exist.
i-5494e32e83085a07-123	Madam President, I would like The Labour Market Survey found that commercial operators are not more efficient than public ones. In Britain, where people have privatised, the problems have become so great that important parts have been rolled back. In Australia, which the Centers like to highlight, many warn that the system leads to discrimination against vulnerable groups. Even the think tank that Martin Ådahl himself started does not find any support to make it more effective with commercial employment services. So I have to ask: How much does the Center Party value facts and experience in relation to clock faith in the magic of the market?
i-5494e32e83085a07-125	Madam President, I would like It's very simple. When you have this type of stand-alone player that is paid for according to results, you avoid the problems you just mentioned, Ali Esbati. If you pay only to take on people who are unemployed, you get the problems you have had historically when you put it out. On the other hand, in Australia and in places where they have done it right, they have paid only according to results. We have, like Fores' study, just like all the research that we have based this on and, like the OECD study, based on the performance-based models, which deliver results.
i-5494e32e83085a07-127	Madam President, I would like Different types of models for bringing in commercial actors in this context have been tested very closely what is now the result. We know the results concretely what they will be – we can follow them. It will be great for some of these companies but not very good for important groups of jobseekers. Yet the Center Party chooses to honk and drive. That is the problem, and I think it is because you simply do not care very much about what happens to the people who are unemployed.
i-5494e32e83085a07-129	Madam President, I would like It is for the unemployed that we are doing this! If you had read on these models, Ali Esbati, and really gone through the results, you would have seen that in Australia unemployment was halved as part of this. It has delivered results per crown that are not even comparable to the old bureaucratic solutions that were abandoned because they did not work. I'm sorry, Ali, but you can't do left-wing speeches about the market and the hit and the hit. If you have a result-based model, it works, but if you do it the wrong way, as you have done in some places, it does not work. We have gone on what works and as Fores recommends.
i-5494e32e83085a07-131	Madam President, I would like I would just like to say, speaking of the previous discussion, that I did not count on the Liberals in the blue-brown bloc, but I note that that is where it landed the heaviest. It has been said a lot about this debate about how but not so much about why. I think it will be difficult to understand the urge to create chaos in and destroy AF's activities if one does not see the strong economic interests that exist in the matter. It is lucrative to be able to drive commercial straws into public money bags. We see this development in several areas: healthcare, care, school and assistance, or when management consultants go away with billions of profits from the construction of New Karolinska while there is no money to fix the staff locker room. It is in this context that the desire to privatise labour market policy must be seen. We can see which stakeholder organisations have been most active in first drawing a false picture of AF's activities and then trying to sell political proposals that put right the transfer of billions of tax dollars. For us in the Left Party, it is more important to safeguard the possibilities of a modern, progressive labour market policy that can help equip people for a changing labour market, taking into account their diverse and changing circumstances, and which can help develop a more spacious, more productive labour market. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, it has not become much clearer today how the government and its more or less liberal policy providers have envisaged the large rescheduling of AF to land. I think this is irresponsible. If the course is not changed, we can unfortunately expect more scandals with the misuse of tax money, poorer services for people who are currently far from the labour market and costs that are passed on to municipalities. Expect that the Left Party will follow up on this policy and work for it to change!
i-5494e32e83085a07-136	Madam President, I would like I have to ask here in this House how the Left Party really intends to put the bureaucracy that has not been delivered for many years into order. Are we going to continue just as we have done before, or are we going to look at those countries that have actually achieved results and that have used the money so that the unemployed come to work in a completely different way than in Sweden?
i-5494e32e83085a07-137	Madam President, I would like I used quite a lot of my speech both this time and last time to explain how we see the labour market and how it should develop. With regard to the countries mentioned by Martin Ådahl, I tried to say that in Britain, where this has been tried for the longest time, the results are so disastrous that even during the current right-wing administration several of the proposals have begun to roll back. As far as Australia is concerned, we recently read how trade unions mention that the method used is both discriminatory and partly racist.
i-5494e32e83085a07-139	Madam President, I would like Always these extreme upper words that you hear as soon as the Left Party is to speak about things! Now, apparently, racism came into the picture as well. The truth is that these two countries have had lower unemployment and better results per job seeker than we have had and have delivered in a completely different way even though they have had tough economic situations. What is absolutely clear and that Ali Esbati has to take in is why he is more fond of AF's bureaucracy than of doing what is needed for the unemployed so that there is delivery on results.
i-5494e32e83085a07-141	Madam President, I would like It was not I who used the word racism, but I quoted from criticisms that have been made against the Australian model from organisations and people in Australia. Martin Ådahl asked me to comment on the countries that he thinks are effective and good. I noted that the facts suggest otherwise, and then Martin Ådahl became sad and angry. I think we will have to return to this debate more times with more facts.
i-5494e32e83085a07-143	Madam President, I would like I have a great understanding that rescheduling creates concern among the agency's staff and that this has negative consequences for many individual employees. We stand for our budget. However, we believe that the management of Arbetsförmedlingen has made decisions that have been disproportionate and rash. We see a great potential for efficiency in Arbetsförmedlingen's operations, and we therefore chose to make other priorities in our draft budget. Now I hope that the government will also start to meet its priorities. The best-before-date for blaming the M-KD budget should have been cancelled with our amending budget. But it is not appropriate to stand for it, but to continue to use rhetoric that is not entirely honest. We Christian Democrats have long been in favour of opening up to competition, but we also know that a structure and clear regulatory framework is needed in order to be able to steer towards good quality. The rescheduling of Arbetsförmedlingen will take place in a way that will allow the market for private operators to slowly open up to more people. For us, it has been important for more than the big giants to be able to match and convey jobs. Local knowledge is of great importance. Therefore, we believe that non-profit forces, socially integrated companies and smaller intermediaries with local ties should also be given room to contribute. I note that the government is now prepared to go even further with regard to private operators. The rescheduling that is now to take place by the Employment Service, Madam President, is very important. I look with confidence at the conditions that perhaps the biggest transformation of an authority will take place through a party constellation with widely differing views on the problems and future of the Public Employment Service.
i-5494e32e83085a07-149	Madam President, I would like Last week, the Parliament took a position on a report on the overall structure for the provision of local government services. There the Christian Democrats even reserved themselves because they wanted to go further. They wrote that the most important state actors and authorities, mainly the police, Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen, should exist in principle in all municipalities. I would like to ask Sofia Damm how she herself felt that the KD's budget contributed to this.
i-5494e32e83085a07-151	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the opportunity to answer this question! In my speech, I just stressed that I believe that the management of the Employment Service has acted too rashly with regard to the closure of local offices. Perhaps it has been done because it knows that it hits the hardest there against one of the cooperation parties, the Centre Party, and its rural focus. I think it's been wrong. One must see in peace and quiet what conditions exist in the various municipalities.
i-5494e32e83085a07-153	Madam President, I would like I still find it a little hard to see how a huge cutback would lead to avoid closing a lot of offices around the country. This is particularly true when we in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs were explicitly informed before the decision was taken that this could be one of the consequences.
i-5494e32e83085a07-154	Madam President, I would like According to the Director-General, this is to be investigated, and he also says that it will only come into force in one to two years' time. Does our 2019 budget really read properly if the answer is to close local offices? I don't think so.
i-5494e32e83085a07-155	Madam President, I would like I noted, Ali Esbati, that you did not mean the Liberals in your opening statement. Nevertheless, I think that this debate is so important that it requires a certain degree of decency. We must refrain from addressing each other in a reducing way. What we now have to debate and discuss is how to reform the Public Employment Service. It is incredibly important that we do it so that it will be good for the long term, even for the job seekers. Today, they are not getting the help they need because we have an agency, an authority, which is unable to carry out its task of ensuring that job seekers get to work. Of course there is a concern. I think it is good that we are all expressing it, because it is justified. How should we ensure that there is a presence in the country where job seekers who may not be able to handle the digital tool also have the right to physical contact with an employment intermediary? It is in the light of these problem descriptions that we – the government parties, the Liberals and the Center Party – have come to the conclusion that a clear basis is needed for such an analysis. Otherwise, we risk throwing the baby out with the bath water. I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for good and constructive discussions in the negotiations that have taken place. I would also like to thank all those who have been involved in these negotiations. We have been able to focus on what is necessary to implement these changes. It is clear that Arbetsförmedlingen will continue to have the main responsibility for state labour market policy. However, this means a new function of control, follow-up and responsibility for the new compensation system, while matching activities should be extended to external actors so that we have an activity that means that more jobseekers get into work. This is incredibly important. We will follow the process very closely so that we can get an agency that is moving in the right direction.
i-5494e32e83085a07-162	Madam President, I would like We in the Green Party see that our role in this debate is to be a blowtorch for the sustainable perspective. The future of the Public Employment Service, as formulated in the January Agreement, undoubtedly represents a major change for the Swedish labour market. We must deal responsibly with the concerns of both the job-seekers and the staff of the Agency in relation to this reform. Swedish labour market policy must take seriously the well-being of people into account. A guiding principle of the Green Party's labour market policy is to create a better balance between work and leisure time. People must have more power over their time. Working time needs to be more flexible for people's different needs and life phases. We want to give people the opportunity for development time. Those who want to update their skills by training, trying out another job or starting their own business should be able to do so. At the same time, a substitute will go in and do the job of the vacant person. In this way, more are benefited. This is a concrete green proposal for a more sustainable labour market that takes into account individual needs and dreams and provides more access to the labour market. Madam President, I would like Today's labour market is designed to continuously boost growth. But there are many things that make us much happier than working and consuming more. My party wants to build a sustainable future to long for, a future that neither rips out man nor the planet. Sustainability is the basis for any reform. The economy must follow the framework of ecology, for the simple reason that the opposite in the long run is impossible.
i-5494e32e83085a07-165	Madam President, I would like Before the Employment Committee and the Riksdag decided on the budget of the Employment Service, the Director General of the Employment Service was invited to explain the consequences. He explained the consequence that 4,500 people would be warned. Yet this decision was taken. However, it does not really feel like taking responsibility for your own decisions when at this point in time you want a calmer pace. Now, however, I am responsible and the Minister for Labour. I am responsible for the decisions we make now. We are now in a major reform of the Employment Service. It will lead to a well-functioning labour market policy, even if it is a different model than it has been in the past. We will continue to have a state responsibility for labour market policy, but armaments and matching will be carried out by other actors. This means, of course, that in the future fewer employment agencies will be needed that are employed at the Employment Service. It also means a clear and different mission. We will have to come back to this subject, but I would like to thank you for today's debate.
i-5494e32e83085a07-179	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me about Sweden's approach to the EU's Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) and asked for answers to the following questions: Which countries do I and the government intend to intensify cooperation with under the CSDP when the UK leaves the EU? Why is Sweden only participating in 4 of the 34 Pesco projects that have been launched?
i-5494e32e83085a07-182	I would like to begin by emphasising that the Council supports strong security and defence cooperation within the EU, which is important for meeting the challenges of European security and for Europe to take greater responsibility for its own security. The common objective of EU security and defence cooperation is to develop a better integrated European defence capability and to enable the Union to carry out the full range of civilian and military crisis management operations. Sweden is actively contributing to this. Within the framework of the EU's security and defence cooperation, the government has continuously worked towards continued cooperation with strategic partners to strengthen European security and capabilities. In the ongoing negotiations on the general conditions for third country participation in Pesco projects, the Council seems to continue to pursue a flexible and pragmatic approach. The transatlantic link is fundamental to security in Europe and underlines the importance of the EU's policy to maintain and maintain relations with North America and other relevant partners. EU security and defence cooperation shall be mutually reinforcing and complementary with NATO and other regional, multilateral and bilateral cooperation. The government has also underlined that the common ambition for a more effective EU should continue to be pursued on an intergovernmental basis and respect the role of the Member States in decision-making. Defence initiatives will be developed in line with national priorities and legislation. Pål Jonson's first question concerns which countries Sweden will intensify cooperation with in the framework of the CSDP when the UK joins the EU. It is the content of the issue that governs which countries Sweden cooperates with. We have a fundamental consensus with many Member States on how CSDP should be developed. Sweden thus cooperates with a broad range of countries in various areas within the framework of the EU's common security and defence cooperation. The government continues to attach great importance to ensuring close cooperation between the EU and the UK in the area of security and defence policy, whether the UK is a member of the EU or not. Pål Jonson's second question concerns Sweden's participation in Pesco projects. All 34 Pesco projects have been analysed by the Government Office. The Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration have given opinions on the Swedish project participation. The conclusion from these preparations is that the focus should currently be on the three Pesco projects Sweden participates in and implements these as well as on running the Swedish-French Pesco project et EU Test and Evaluation Cent re s. This does not exclude that participation in other projects may be considered in the future. The majority of projects are still at an initial stage. The Government, together with the relevant authorities, continues to monitor the development of the projects. The last question concerns the financing of the costs of the Swedish contribution to EDF, the European Defence Fund. It is not likely until the end of the year or next year that the defence fund's budget will be established. This is in the context of the overall negotiations on the EU's multiannual financial framework. The Parliament has decided on principles that mean that when a decision at EU level causes an increase in the Swedish EU levy, the increase shall be financed by a reduction in expenditure in the area of expenditure to which the EU action can be attributed. Expenditure on the E uropean Defence Fund will be financed in the framework of the State budget.
i-5494e32e83085a07-186	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Defence for a long and detailed answer to my interpellation, although I have some comments on the content of the reply. There are strong reasons for debating the EU's security and defence policy, both in view of the forthcoming European elections and, above all, in view of the fact that this is a policy area that has developed very rapidly over the last two years. A year ago, EU High Representative Mogherini said that the EU had made more progress in defence policy in the last ten months than in the last ten years. I'm prepared to share that analysis. Properly designed, this policy area can make important contributions to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities, I think. Madam President, I would like I note that in the reply the Minister for Defence says that, the transatlantic link is fundamental to security in Europe, and that, the EU's policy must strive to... maintain relations with North America and NATO. I fully share the view of the Minister for Defence. The transatlantic link and NATO are perhaps more important than ever since the end of the Cold War. However, I am doing a different analysis than the Minister for Defence of how Sweden will strengthen the transatlantic link. The main expression of this link is NATO, which caters for the military presence of the United States in Europe. If we really want to take responsibility and strengthen the transatlantic link, we should become full members of NATO. Now, however, this is in part another debate. I would also like to say that I appreciate the commitment of the Minister for Defence to strengthen bilateral cooperation with the United States. But there are dividing lines between us here. Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Minister for Defence says that, in the EU's defence policy, it is the substance of the matter that governs which countries Sweden cooperates with. There is little thought of the British Foreign Minister Palmerston, who once said that Britain has no permanent friends but only permanent interests. But the truth is that Britain has been a very close friend of Sweden in the EU's defence policy for a long number of years. If Britain leaves the Union, we must, of course, find other strategic partners who share our values for the development of the European Union. Otherwise, Europe will develop in the wrong direction in our eyes. We have seen some worrying examples of this over the past year. Firstly, France and the United Kingdom are increasingly talking about the creation of a European army. I do not think that is something that Sweden is willing to support. Secondly, there will be increased demands for the EU to strengthen its strategic autonomy vis-à-vis North America and the US. Nor is it in our interest, because we want to ensure a strong military presence of the United States in our part of Europe. Thirdly, the EU's defence cooperation with countries such as Norway, the United States and possibly the United Kingdom is not as inclusive as Sweden would like. I am therefore slightly opposed to the defence minister's view that Sweden should primarily have a matter-based policy and settle with different countries on a case-by-case basis. Above all, I question whether it has been particularly successful over the past year, based on the evolution of the EU's defence policy. Instead, I believe that we need to work significantly more long-term with EU Member States that have a common understanding with Sweden: countries such as Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and the Netherlands, which share Sweden's Atlanticist approach to this policy area. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence how he views the problems that I mentioned: firstly, a move towards a European army; secondly, strategic autonomy; and thirdly, cooperation is not as inclusive as Sweden wants. I also wonder how he sees the conditions for finding new long-term strategic partners after Britain has left the Union. I understand that Sweden has unfortunately found it difficult to orient itself within the EU's security and defence policy post-brexit.
i-5494e32e83085a07-194	Madam President, I would like Cooperation with the Nordic and Baltic countries is a matter of course and is also ongoing today. This is something that can be discussed within the framework of Nordic cooperation, but also within the framework of Nordefco and the Baltic link that exists with Nordefco. This can be a platform for how we then act in different contexts internationally. We also have cooperation within the framework of the Northern Group, which includes several countries that are part of the EU. There are platforms that make us have natural collaboration spaces. But starting from the point of view is not a bad thing. One can look at the tough campaign and the clear work we have done, for example, on allowing third countries to participate in Pesco projects also in relation to the European Defence Fund. By being clear and consistent, we have received support from many different quarters. Had we not had a persevering view on the matter that we had also been able to pursue, it would not have been that way. This is something that it has been extremely important to be very active in. We have both British and American interests in the Swedish defence industry. It is a question of creating systems that offer equal opportunities for all states and companies and that competition is not distorted. That is why the possibility of a third country is very important. Here we have achieved some success. We will continue to be active and monitor this type of issue in the future. Without a consistent focus on the substance of the matter, I think we would never have been supported by others in this context. It can be pretty good to know what you want and be quite clear about it and dare to put your foot down properly in the context. It is a result and an approach. Should you then look further at the question of how we have worked are the projects that we are now participating in – Medical Command, Military Mobility, support for the EU's international efforts on the Pesco side and that we have the project in Vidsel about Test and Evaluation that we do together with France and a French testerena – things that we have come up with through a collaboration with the Swedish Armed Forces. We have come to the conclusion that it is areas with a type of quality that are important for us to develop. We have more ensured that it is important to achieve quality in these contexts at the moment. Many other countries are at about that level in terms of the number of projects. We are open to entering new projects in the future. We will. But it should be what we see that we can benefit from. As regards the further development of the EU, the government's position on the European army, European headquarters and such matters is well known. We are not in favour of this development. We see cooperation as intergovernmental and think it is very important that it is based on the needs of the individual Member States. It also agrees with our line that the EU is not to be regarded as a federation, but precisely as intergovernmental cooperation. That's what we're starting from, when it comes to the economy, we see budget constraint as very important.
i-5494e32e83085a07-202	Madam President, I would like I think the Minister for Defence has done a good job of keeping the Committee on Defence informed on this issue. I'd like to say that first. But I don't think I share the view that we have been so successful. The Minister for Defence has been in the committee in December and explained that Sweden has had to back up a number of positions linked to how inclusive third countries should be. I'm sure there's a lot of reasons for that. But our ability to build political alliances with so-called like-minded countries is very important for our success. Madam President, I would like There is probably no other country in relation to its size that should be in such good position to shape the EU's defence policy as Sweden. Sweden is the only country to have participated in all military and civilian crisis management operations carried out by the EU. We have been a leader in developing the EU's civilian crisis management capabilities. We have strong and internationally recognised research authorities such as FOI and FMV. We are one of a handful of countries in the world that can build fighter planes, submarines and very advanced battleships. There is another country in the world with 10 million inhabitants capable of doing so. Madam President, I would like At the same time, there is no other country in the EU that has been so moderate in taking part in the Pesco projects as Sweden. Sweden stands out in that circle. I find this remarkable in the light of the high ambition expressed by the Minister for Defence in his reply that the government has to participate in the EU's defence cooperation. Madam President, I would like The fact that we are not involved in as many projects as Italy, France and Poland, for example, may not be surprising. They participate in 20 projects. But there are other countries that are about the same size as Sweden that are significantly more involved in the Pesco projects. Portugal and Belgium participate in 17 projects, Hungary participates in 16 projects, Finland participates in 11 projects, Romania and Cyprus participate in 8 projects and Sweden as mentioned in 4 projects. It is despite the fact that we have a military capability and a defence industrial capability that is considerably stronger than the countries I have just mentioned. Madam President, it is, of course, a little blunt to mention just the number of projects without discussing their form and content, and I realise that. But it gives a picture of Sweden's ambitions in the EU's defence policy. It risks creating some disadvantages for Sweden that we are not so active in the Pesco projects. Firstly, the Pesco projects will be financed by the European Defence Fund. Sweden is likely to pay 800 million into the defence fund. That Fund shall be used to co-finance the projects afterwards. This means that we are paying in funds to the fund but that we cannot take the money home through the Pesco projects. We are thus funding the military construction of other countries' defence forces. Secondly, it is a competitive disadvantage for the Swedish defence industry that Sweden does not participate in any of the Pesco projects that have a defence industrial link. In fact, Sweden is the only country that does not have a defence industrial link to its Pesco projects. Thirdly, we risk losing political influence in the EU's defence policy. Sweden can be perceived as unengaged in this area because we do not want to be involved in the permanent structured cooperation. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Defence says in his reply that the Government Office has analysed all 34 projects and that the Swedish Armed Forces and FMV have also commented on the projects. That is why only 4 projects have been included. At the same time, there is a wide range of projects that should be of interest to the Swedish Armed Forces. This applies, for example, to telewars, drones, autonomous vehicles and cybersecurity issues. Sweden has important abilities to participate in all these projects. Sweden is also a very sought-after military partner in defence industrial contexts. When the Defence Committee visited Finland in November, the first question we received from the Finns was: Can Sweden and Finland not do a joint Pesco project? Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence whether it is not to the detriment of Sweden that we stand out in these contexts. Given that the government claims to have such high ambitions in the EU's defence policy and also in Pesco, should we not simply be involved in those projects to the same extent?
i-5494e32e83085a07-213	Madam President, I would like It should be made clear that Pesco is not something that has been going on for a very long time. We think it is perhaps more important to ensure that we achieve something in a number of areas than to start being in everything at the same time just to achieve some kind of statistical position. It may be useful to use in some speeches in the Riksdag. Based on the assessment we have made together with the Swedish Armed Forces and FMV, we have reached one level. These are things that we can see that we have a direct benefit from and are directly linked to how we see the situation right now. We put a lot of work into finding a project with France, which we have also done. We are launching a project of our own. We are at the beginning of a process. I have said that we are open to going into other projects in the future as well. I do not know whether Pål Jonson really understands what tremendous work has been done on this with third countries. It sounds like we haven't been really active and that what we've been doing hasn't mattered or meant anything. Throughout the negotiations, we have taken a very clear line on the need to allow cooperation with third country actors. It is in order not to get discrimination against our companies that have owners outside the region. The government's position is that Swedish industrial companies that have their board of directors in Sweden are crucial to Swedish defence capabilities and are as important for European security as their fully European-owned competitors. At present, the regulation allows their participation subject to certain conditions, including that the state guarantees that the companies have their board of directors in Sweden. Nevertheless, we have managed to ensure that we have the opportunity for third countries in these contexts. We will continue to monitor and pursue it persistently. However, it is a comprehensive exercise that has gradually received increased support within the EU from a wide range of other countries. If we hadn't been able to run that job, it wouldn't have been the same force in the process at all. There are different types of views between European stakeholders here. I can say this if I am going to be a little critical of the opposition: I have not really experienced any deeper interest in the third country issue or any more explicit support for our line from you. In fact, you have not said that it is wrong either, but I have not experienced much commitment on your part. You have more focused on thinking about what statistics for projects and other things look like. I believe that we need to lay the foundations for this so that we can deal with the fundamental issues in order to move forward. It is said here that there is an unengagement. If you had a look at the whole job we've put into this particular question, which is a basic question, I don't think you would use that kind of word. Then I think it is good that you say that the statistical references you make are a very blunt instrument. You use that word. There is also a group of quite many countries in four to six projects. I believe that we should analyse and look at quality and utility and then see how we can do this as well as possible and then move forward. Then we'll see what projects we're going into. There are many values to be done in terms of both one and the other project. It is not easy to stand here and say: Now there is a project in the field of telewar, so of course we are going into it! It requires a completely different kind of depth in that analysis of whether it benefits us or not. ( FIRST VICE PRESIDENT: I would like to remind you that we are speaking through the President of this House. )
i-5494e32e83085a07-223	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for the debate. Let me mention some of the things that the Minister is raising. I only note that Sweden really stands out in these contexts in relation to our ability and ambitions by participating in only four of the projects. I find that remarkable. I also note that other countries have made a different analysis and have significantly higher ambitions when it comes to participating in the projects. When it comes to the opposition's commitment to third countries, it is as clear as that of the Minister for Defence. However, we are not in an executive position. I recommend to the Minister for Defence, for example, that we take note of our position and, above all, of the motions we have raised in this area. It is crystal clear; we naturally want to strengthen the transatlantic link even more than the Minister for Defence by also wanting Sweden to become a full member of NATO. Madam President, I would like The last point concerns the financing of the defence fund, which I touched upon. As I said earlier, the fee to the defence fund is likely to land at about 800 million. There is so much Sweden should pay into the EU Defence Fund. Now the Secretary of Defense says that this is to be financed under the state budget. I think few were surprised by this. However, my question was rather whether these funds, 800 million, should be taken within the Swedish Armed Forces' existing framework for the defence budget or whether we should provide additional funds to fund the defence fund. This is a fairly important issue given that the Swedish Armed Forces' finances are hard-pressed and partly underfunded. If it were the case that the government would land in that we did not add any additional funds to the Swedish Armed Forces to participate in the Defence Fund, it would have quite serious consequences for the Swedish defence economy. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to end by asking these very questions to the Minister for Defence: will extra funds be provided to the defence fund from other policy areas, or will this be charged to the current defence budget? And what consequences could this have for the Swedish Armed Forces' finances?
i-5494e32e83085a07-230	Madam President, I would like There is nothing remarkable about our Pesco projects, but these are things that have been developed from proper analysis of what it is useful and quality in these contexts. We're open to going into more projects. This is not a remarkable approach. On the other hand, I find it somewhat remarkable – I can use that wording – to concentrate only on statistics and figures and not discuss content and then, with some ease, bring up a number of headlines for what Sweden would of course join. There are many aspects to joining a project. It's not that simple, and it doesn't work this way in reality. Then the honourable Member will excuse me, but I have not noticed in any clear verbal context, in debates or in discussions that have taken place in committee any deeper involvement in the question of third countries by the opposition. Then perhaps you have written about this somewhere; be it so. However, I do not, as I said, see any deeper involvement in this context. We, on the other hand, have put an enormous amount of work into this, just as we have put an enormous amount of work into the transatlantic link. We have deepened it in a way that you were not even close to in terms of ideas, thoughts or political will at all during your reign. I just want it to be said that it is clear that some things have happened here. It is not we who have some kind of history of lateness to sort out here. The NATO debate could be taken in a different context because I have only 17 seconds left of my speaking time. As far as additional funds are concerned, as I said in my introduction, I say: this is a final issue of balance in the state budget. That is the answer the honourable Member receives today.
i-5494e32e83085a07-236	Madam President, I would like Angelica Lundberg has asked me whether I will work to introduce mandatory mediation according to the recommendations of the Nordic Council. I believe it is urgent that the rules on custody, housing and social relations are designed to ensure the best interests of the child. In most cases, it is best for the child to agree on matters concerning the child. It is therefore important that there are good conditions for reaching consensus solutions. It is also important that the rules on consensus solutions are carefully designed. It is not always possible or appropriate to reach an agreement. This may be the case, for example, when there has been violence in the family. Parents' ability to reach a consensus solution is an issue that has been investigated by the 2014 custody inquiry. The study makes the assessment that there is room for improvement of the regulatory framework. Among other things, it is proposed that parents who are considering starting a dispute about children should first turn to the Social Welfare Board for a mandatory information call. The investigation also makes several other proposals aimed at improving the custody process and reducing the risk of harm caused by long-term conflicts. The report of the inquiry is prepared in the Government Office. The report is comprehensive and many referrals have been made. The issue is important for the government, and we intend to come back.
i-5494e32e83085a07-240	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The pressure on parents of young children in today's society is great. You should have clean children in new clothes, a clean home that resembles something from a furniture catalog and new car, preferably with matching caravan. You should go to Mallorca once a year while having time to work full time, take the children to swimming school and football training, cook nutritious food with organic vegetables and bake your own sourdough bread. In any case, I have not yet seen any exercise about increasing the hours of the day, and it can be difficult to make ends meet. Now that the government, and indeed the European Union, want to go in and poke into the everyday life of families and decide in the first step how to take our parental leave, the pressure of course increases even more. In 2018, nearly 25,000 divorces took place in Sweden. The number of divorces has varied in the 21st century, but the trend has been increasing. Half of all couples separate, and as many as 30 percent of parents today separate when children are young. Of course, those who get caught are the children. One way to avoid a lengthy and lengthy trial in court is to ensure that parents get along and document their decisions early in the separation, before the conflict becomes too big. The Swedish Democrats have therefore proposed mandatory mediation as a first step in order to avoid proceeding to court if possible. Now the Nordic Council has also come up with the recommendation to introduce mandatory mediation in all the Nordic countries. The reasons put forward are the same as those set out by the Swedish Democrats in their committee motion, namely to try, in different ways and with all available means, to reduce the mental illness of children and young people and to reduce both the number and severity of conflicts between parents. It is good, Madam President, that Morgan Johansson and I share the view that the rules should be based on the best interests of children. Nevertheless, I have to ask myself why the Government considers that it is not always appropriate to reach an agreement on custody, housing and social relations. Does the Government think that it is better for the matter to be decided in court, or does he even think that politicians are best placed to decide who should have custody of a child, as the government believes when it comes to parental leave? Although violence has occurred in the relationship, it is of the utmost importance that an agreement is reached as quickly as possible – perhaps even more important in those cases, as a long trial in the court is likely to increase the suffering of the victim. The system has been in place in Norway for almost 20 years, and the experience from it is good. So why does the government think it wouldn't work here? Does Morgan Johansson think that we have greater problems with violence in close relations here in Sweden than in Norway? If so, why?
i-5494e32e83085a07-248	Madam President, I would like Angelica Lundberg is right that the pressure on parents of young children can often be very great. That is precisely why, over the decades, we Social Democrats have pushed forward a very progressive family policy. That is why we have pushed forward the world's most generous parental leave. That's why we've pushed forward two, three, four and five weeks of vacation. That is why we have pushed forward the world's most expanded childcare facilities in Sweden. It is precisely in this context: to make it possible to reconcile family life and working life and to make life for parents of young children better. That is also why, during this parliamentary term, we will be launching a new social democratic reform, namely what we call family week, with additional days off for parents of young children. As far as I know, the Swedish Democrats have almost not joined up with any of these progressive policies that we have pushed forward, rather the opposite. It is a very conservative position that the Swedish Democrats have. The more problems you can solve early on when faced with separation, the better it is of course. At the same time, we know that in the vast majority of cases where there is a difference, it resolves conflict-free. You sit down around a kitchen table, and you simply discuss how you should have it in the future when you split up. This is how it works in most cases. Then, of course, there are situations where you simply cannot get along. Then the question is: Should we have a system where society calls in all parents who separate into mandatory conversations, or should we perhaps focus on those cases where you risk getting into a dispute? If we're going to call all parents, regardless of whether you solve all the problems on your own, it's tens of thousands of separations a year that we need to deal with – and that's the social services we're talking about. The proposal contained in the investigation focuses on precisely those cases where one might run the risk of getting into a dispute. Then the investigation's proposal is that before going to court to try to resolve these disputes you should have been called to a mandatory information call, otherwise you simply must not go to court. That is the meaning of the proposal. That is exactly the solution we are now looking at. We have not yet locked ourselves in the substance of the matter, but I still think that the arguments for such a solution are quite strong. Then Angelica Lundberg asks what kind of cases you cannot find consensus solutions and joint custody. Yes, for example, these may be the cases where individual custody is needed. I pointed out cases where there has been violence in the family; it can also be about other things. One party may have taken the child with him by arbitrary procedure, not least abroad. In those cases, you need to solve this very quickly. Then you need to do it through a decision on custody of the other party. Then you can't call a mediation. In Norway, they have just recently received a new regulatory framework in place where it is said that in cases where, for example, there has been violence in the family, one should not call for such mediation. You shouldn't force your parents to do that. I think the arguments are strong in favour of the investigation's proposal. We are looking at a new regulatory framework during this parliamentary term.
i-5494e32e83085a07-258	Madam President, I would like I note that decades of social democratic family policy have not reduced the pressure on parents of young children, quite the contrary. Why more of the same policy would be the solution I cannot understand. Conflicts between parents can lead to negative emotional and social development in children. It is therefore urgent for everyone to avoid conflicts in separations becoming severe and large. When the process goes as far as court and housing, custody, and association should be decided there, the conflict often escalates. Now it is important to show the court how bad the other is as a parent, and all kinds of tricks are used to discredit each other. My starting point is that courts should not have to decide matters of custody or access but that this can, with adequate help, be better resolved by the parents themselves. At the beginning of the separation, parents usually agree to do what is best for the children. That is why we want to introduce a model which, as soon as it is clear that parents are to separate, convenes the parties concerned to family mediation. Sure, there may be quite a lot of families every year because we have quite a lot of separations in Sweden, but there are also hundreds of thousands of children. That's where the focus should be. I think that this step should be mandatory in order to have one's case brought before a court at all. At least you have to try to agree first. It may not always succeed, but if it succeeds, it will improve the situation of all those hundreds of thousands of children who today suffer from lengthy court proceedings. Research shows that the high number of separations may be due to parents having difficulty communicating. How are they going to communicate after the separation unless they get help? Here society needs to step in and support up. It is true that voluntary cooperation talks are being offered today, but it is the parents themselves who must take the initiative. Experience is also that it is only at a later stage when the conflict is already large, which leads to difficulties in reaching agreement. In addition, one or both parties may refuse cooperation talks without further consequences. The investigation referred to by the Government proposes a mandatory information call. But information is one-way communication. This is not a good way to work if you want parents to find and document solutions for custody and housing. The system in Norway involves the help of a specially trained mediator. It could be a psychologist, a priest, a lawyer or a sociologist. Conversations can be made together or with each parent individually. A report is prepared in the government's office, says Morgan Johansson. But it is strange, Madam President: some laws can be passed in 15 minutes without paying attention to what either referrals or legal advice says, but when it comes to other laws, the government can sit in its office and turn papers for years without anything happening. If the issue is as important to the government as it claims, should it not have come up with anything concrete by now? This began to be investigated in 2014, well, actually long before then. And the system is in Norway and has been there for many years, so it can't be very difficult to introduce it in Sweden too. I would therefore like to ask the Government: how many children will be affected each year before the government has completed its investigation?
i-5494e32e83085a07-269	Madam President, I would like When it comes to general family policy, almost all international evaluations show that Sweden is one of the best countries for children to grow up in and for mothers to be mothers in. You can go to almost all the evaluations that have been made. It's no coincidence that it's that way. This is because we have been pursuing a progressive family policy for decades. We have gradually extended parental leave so that it is now the most generous in the world. We have gradually extended childcare to a level where I would say it is also among the most extensive in the world. We have gone forward with other opportunities for increased leave – I mentioned holiday legislation. Now we come with another reform: a family week with more time for the children, quite simply. Much of this has been opposed by the Swedish Democrats and other conservative forces for years, decades, – precisely those proposals that make it easier for families to combine work and family life. On the one hand, Angelica Lundberg says that society should not interfere but keep its fingers off. On the other hand, she says that society should call all parents who will separate to mandatory mediation. Actually, I'm not making any sense about that. Either society should, as you say, keep its fingers off or call everyone to mandatory mediation, even in those contexts where there are actually no problems and you are in complete agreement. The proposal now on the table focuses on cases where disputes may eventually arise. The proposal is built in such a way that, before going to court, a mandatory information call should be called. That task takes on society. Then you also have the opportunity to resolve some of the disputes or in any case understand what it can mean if you go to court. If you have not done this, you will not be able to go to court either. Thus, we focus on the contexts where there is actually a problem. Then I would like to say that it is not always entirely obvious that it will end up in joint custody. Sometimes it becomes private custody. This applies, for example, to situations of violence. I do not think it goes without saying that it is necessary to force women who have been subjected to violence for a long time to sit with the offender and try to mediate. I do not think that is obvious at all, nor do the Norwegians. That is why they have recently introduced a new rule in this regard. Now we are preparing these proposals further. I think that we should make it easier for families in this case to focus on those very families where it is likely to lead to problems. Then you can also give them more help. The alternative, which Angelica Lundberg advocates, is that society should call in tens of thousands of families every year for mandatory mediation in situations where it may not be necessary. Actually, I don't think that's justified.
i-5494e32e83085a07-276	Madam President, I would like What I said earlier here was that I don't think politicians should go in and control the everyday lives of families. I think most Swedish families do not think so either. When it comes to these talks, what I'm trying to say is that it's when you agree that you should sit down and document it, because the conflicts usually come later. Madam President, I would like I want children to have a good time and have the best possible childhood regardless of whether their parents are separated or not. For me, it is important to always put the children first and that the laws we make are based on what is best for children. I therefore find it distressing to see that the government lacks the capacity to act when it comes to resolving the situation of all these hundreds of thousands of children who are being squeezed. You do not listen to the recommendations from the Nordic Council, and you say no to the Swedish Democrats' proposal for mandatory mediation for parents in separation. I hope, Madam President, that the Government will take on board the debate we have had here today and will go to the Government and think about how to really improve the situation of children affected by their parents' separation. My hope is that the Government will also see the problem and that the Government will soon return to Parliament with concrete proposals. Our children are our future, and the efforts we are making today to create safe and responsible adults in the future are extremely important as it costs society many times more to repair the damage of broken children later in life.
i-5494e32e83085a07-281	Madam President, I would like We all want to improve opportunities in these situations, for both children and families. But I think it is precisely in terms of the means to be used that we differ. I have doubts about a system that calls in tens of thousands of families to compulsory mediation – also those families where there are no problems and has long been agreed on what the situation should be in the future. Then there are those cases where it is really doubtful whether to use this instrument, for example when it comes to forcing women who have been victims of violence to get into that situation. I'm not sure you should do that at all. I think a better model to use is to look at the situations where there is actually a risk of dispute at the bottom. The structure of the investigation means that if you have not been able to resolve the conflicts and consider going to court, you should be invited to a mandatory information call. I think that is a rather balanced solution to this. But we'll see. We will also penetrate deeper into the referral material of course and see how we land in the end. I see that during this parliamentary term we will be able to put forward proposals on this report where this is only a small part. There is also a wide range of other proposals to improve this situation in the area of custody and housing, which we will then be able to take forward. We will be able to do so during this period.
i-5494e32e83085a07-284	Madam President, I would like Katja Nyberg has asked me how the government has reasoned when guards and guards have been excluded from the proposed crime of blue light abotage. Katja Nyberg has also asked me if I can develop the government's view of the vulnerability of security guards and guards. It is a serious social problem that those charged with helping others are attacked and prevented from carrying out their duties. In order to combat attacks on central blue light operations, the government has proposed a new offence, blue light abotage, which is punishable by criminal sanctions to attack or otherwise interfere with police, rescue or ambulance services if the act is liable to seriously impede or impede emergency or law enforcement activities. Documents covered by the crime include violence and threats to blue light personnel and persons assisting blue light operations. In addition to staff from each organisation, there are therefore persons who help the operation, such as security guards or security guards who assist the police in an operation. However, the construction of the penalty rule follows that the attack on the person must also constitute an attack on the blue light operation. Orderkeepers and guardians are subject to the enhanced protection of criminal law provided for in provision n o m violence or threat to officials. In addition to the new criminal offence, Katja Nyberg has proposed that the scale of penalties for aggravated violence or threats to officials be tightened from today's prison for a minimum of six months and a maximum of four years to imprisonment for a minimum of one and a maximum of six years. The proposal therefore provides for even stronger protection of criminal law than it is today. Orderkeepers are today a complement to the police for orderkeeping in places covered by the security officer's appointments. Orderkeepers may be appointed to serve, for example, at public events, public gatherings, swimming and camping sites and premises where alcohol is served. It is also possible, under certain conditions, to appoint officers to serve in other cases if there is a particular need and it is of general importance. Guardians carry out security duties and lack the police powers of security guards. Work as a security guard or a security guard can lead to vulnerability. It is therefore important that those who work as security guards or guards are adequately trained for the task. However, security officers cannot replace police officers. A very important measure to increase security and reduce crime is to ensure that the Police Authority has sufficient resources. The government is determined to carry out the expansion announced so that the Police Authority can increase by 10,000 employees to 2024. That's why we're making the biggest investment in police operations in modern times. It is also important that great efforts are made to prevent crime from being committed at all. The government has therefore invested in crime prevention and developed the first national crime prevention programme in 20 years with common objectives in all policy areas. Government authorities, municipalities, civil society and, not least, the business community must all contribute to the prevention of crime. In addition, the government has made it easier for the police and municipalities to apply for and obtain permission for camera surveillance on latser that are victims of crime or where the threat picture for other reasons is elevated. In a legislative referral that the Government decided yesterday, it is proposed that the permit requirement be completely removed for police camera surveillance. The Camera Protection Investigation's proposal to abolish the licence requirement also for public transport camera surveillance is currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-5494e32e83085a07-292	Madam President, I would like I thank Morgan Johansson for his answer. It is true; it is a serious problem that those charged with helping others are attacked and prevented from carrying out their duties. We therefore welcome the fact that the government is beginning to see the seriousness of the situation and have proposed the new criminal classification of blue light sabotage. However, the exclusion of security guards and security guards from the group protected by the blue-light abotage offence is not in line with the government's own findings: that the provision should focus on law enforcement activities. Due to the fact that the Police Authority is both under-funded and under-sized, security officers and security guards are to a large extent allowed to take the security-building tasks traditionally incumbent on the police. Orderkeepers and security guards are an extension of the police, and they often work alone in vulnerable situations. As Morgan Johansson mentions, the intention is not that security guards should replace police officers. In an ideal world, they should serve as a complement. But it does not work that way at present. Morgan Johansson mentions that it is necessary for the Police Authority to have sufficient resources. The Government's position is very welcome, but it still seems a little strange when the spring change budget does not reflect that position. We see that the current police shortage leads to others covering up for the shortage when needed. It's done by security guards and security guards. So the question remains. These professions carry out work that is traditionally associated with the police as it is underfunded, in any case for a while to come. Why are these professions not given the much-needed protection included in the proposed crime, even when they do not directly assist bluelight operations in an operation? All our heroes who move out there and have a mission to protect ordinary honest people should feel that they have our full support. Their families should know that there is a shield of security and that we as politicians have taken all the steps we can to ensure that they can carry out their tasks in the best possible way. We have a direct moral responsibility to stand up for our safety carriers, no matter what color they wear on the uniform, regardless of their rank or title and whatever area or context they move in. The Government has also proposed that the scale of penalties for serious violence or threats to officials should be tightened. But why is it only a matter of gross violence or threats to a civil servant? The most common cases of violence or threats to police, security guards and guards are classified as normal. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that if security guards and security guards are to take part in the upgraded protection, it is not enough to have a stone thrown at them, but the violence needs to be even more severe, for example, to be hit by a stone in the head. Is it really going to have to go that far? I would also like to say a few words about camera surveillance. Morgan Johansson has just mentioned the abolition of licence requirements for camera surveillance. It is as welcome as it is surprising. The government's slowness in preparing the issue is striking. The opposition expects the government to take advantage of the Riksdag's announcements and to come back with this as a matter of urgency.
i-5494e32e83085a07-302	Madam President, I would like It is wrong to claim that our bill does not include security guards and security guards. It does so in many situations, even in a few respects with regard to the legislative changes that we are making. Orderkeepers and security guards are affected in two ways. One is assisting the police, for example in an emergency. It will then be subject to the new blue light abotage regulation. One example was the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan. There, security guards and security officers did a fantastic job together with the police to deal with the situation. Anyone who attacks a security guard in those situations is hit by the new regulation of the law, in exactly the same way and to the same extent as the one who attacks a police officer. The second is that it is also subject to the new increased punishment for serious violence and threats against officials. It also includes security guards and security guards. So it is wrong to claim that our bill does not include security guards and security guards. I'm asked to develop how I look at security guards and security guards. My starting point is that they do a fantastic job in everyday life for everyone's safety. At the same time, my entrance is that security officers and security officers should be a complement to the police. They're not taking over police law enforcement information. It's hugely important. I don't want to see a kind of privatisation of that part. It is against this very background that we are making the greatest effort on the police organization that any government has made in modern times. I think we should go back to at least 1965, when the police were nationalised. No government has gone in with more resources and total investment in police operations than this government has done. Now we see the effects of that too. We're back in over 20,000 cops. We are up to a little over 30,000 employees overall. The police department now has more employees than ever before. This is the result of having the financial resources to employ. Madam President, I would like Now we are training twice as many police officers as the previous government did. At that time, 600 to 700 police officers were trained per year. Now we are up at a rate of over 1,300, and we have opened two new police training courses, in Malmö and Borås. I visited the police training in Södertörn just a few weeks ago and met many of the young people and police students who are on their way out. Basically, then, we have a very strong and strong expansion in the police in the future. I believe that this is extremely important in order to increase security, not only in the big cities but throughout the country. With regard to attacks on police, rescue and ambulance personnel, I believe that prevention can go a very long way. There is sometimes a picture that you cannot work in some of the vulnerable areas. I visited the emergency services in Malmö last year, and they say that after they started with preventive measures, for example inviting young people to work in emergency services for a while and visiting families living in the areas, both the number of fires and the number of incidents have fallen sharply. It is also possible to prevent such attacks. You have to be prepared to do that. Katja Nyberg says we've underfunded the police. What you have done, Katja Nyberg, is that you have reduced the tax by SEK 20 billion together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. It's as much as the entire police department costs. This makes it more difficult for us to finance the investments we want to make in the long term. But, of course, we will be able to do it too.
i-5494e32e83085a07-312	Madam President, I would like I don't know if Morgan Johansson got my question right. It is true that security guards and guards are covered by the same protection when they assist the police in an operation. But my question is about when they don't help the police in an operation. Morgan Johansson is absolutely right that security guards should not take over the police's duties. Today, however, this has unfortunately been the case. They are also allowed to work alone in many situations. They work in vulnerable situations. For obvious reasons, they do not have the training, equipment and resources available to the police. It is even more important that they be protected. Morgan Johansson says that the government's proposal is to tighten the penalty for gross violence and threats against officials. It's just a matter of gross violence. In most cases, it is a matter of normal violence. So this is not going to help much. It takes quite a lot of violence for security officers and security guards to have the same protection as police officers today.
i-5494e32e83085a07-315	Madam President, I would like A balance must always be struck when it comes to how high one should go in the different scales of punishment. But blue light abotage goes all the way up to life imprisonment, if that's the case. Anyone who attacks the police or rescue services, but also security guards and guards in an emergency situation, and if this leads to extensive consequences, such as an ambulance or emergency services not arriving at a house that burns and that many are killed, can be hit by up to life imprisonment. It's a hell of a scale of punishment all the way. I think you have to look at where the line should go. My entry is that it is the police that is the main law enforcement activity in Sweden. It's the one that needs to be strengthened. Orderkeepers and security guards should be complementary to the police. If guards and guards are attacked in their usual activities, they are, of course, subject to the ordinary criminal law rules, but this is precisely a matter of emergency situations where there may be major consequences. The criminal law should be proportionate, i.e. that a punishment should be justified on the basis of the seriousness of the crime and the consequences it can have. I have also mentioned how I view the development of the police. I can see that, every year now, more and more police officers will be leaving our new police training courses. In the coming years, we will see an increase in the number of police and civilian workers. Then it is a matter for us to ensure that they are well distributed so that the whole country has access to the reinforcement. In addition to the proposal we are now putting forward on blue light abotage and serious violence or threats to officials, we will also continue to prepare to see which additional occupational groups are to be included in criminal law protection. There we will set up a further review. The proposal contained in the inquiry was met with a mixed criticism of referrals, and then we need to think more about which groups it will be about. There will also be a continuation of this, and we will come back to Parliament.
i-5494e32e83085a07-319	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I find it remarkable that Morgan Johansson does not seem to see the seriousness of the situation. The Minister talks extensively and widely about various measures mainly for the police, which are such an essential part of society, but when it was put at its head the government reduced the grant to the police based on the budget that was voted through in Parliament last autumn. It feels like Morgan Johansson lacks focus and has a defensive attitude linked to the problem, but it is real and serious. It's time for a pick-up. You can't just keep talking, you have to do things right here and now. It is no longer possible to sit still and watch. Problems with the police and the judiciary are becoming acute and need to be resolved. Then it is not only possible to focus on parts of the judiciary, but to look at the whole of the judiciary and ensure that everything works. It is an entire chain from start to finish, including security guards and security guards.
i-5494e32e83085a07-322	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, together with Moderates and Christian Democrats, reduced the tax by over SEK 20 billion last autumn. It was the first thing Katja Nyberg did when she entered the Riksdag. Then she pressed the button and said they'd cut the tax by 20 billion. It's almost as much as the entire police operation costs in a year. It was important to prioritise. If you had not done this, it is clear that there would have been more money for all sorts of things that we want to strengthen: health care, care for the elderly, school and police, and the rest of the judiciary. But some of our reform space was seized by you at the time. We now need to work up the scope for reform again. However, we will continue to give priority to the necessary and important activities. We have said that there will be 10,000 more employees by 2024 in the police. It's stuck. In the coming years, more and more people will be leaving police training, and more and more civilians will be employed by the police. The re surs will be distributed throughout the country. But it requires that you have the energy to prioritise between the resources available. You didn't make it last fall, and we're gonna have to make up for that now that we're back in government.
i-5494e32e83085a07-325	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me when I and the government intend to come back with a directive to a parliamentary inquiry into migration and whether the government in such an investigation is prepared to take a broad approach to the whole migration policy. It is important to reach a broad agreement in the Riksdag on a humane, legally secure and sustainable migration policy. The Government Declaration clearly states that Swedish refugee reception should be sustainable in the long term. The January agreement provides for a parliamentary committee to settle the future migration policy. The agreement also mentions a number of other issues in the area of migration policy which will be the subject of investigations. This concerns, among other things, the issue of citizenship, which Maria Stenergard mentions in her question. All parliamentary parties will be invited to the parliamentary committee. It ensures that a broad discussion takes place, and I welcome the Moderates to that work. The directives for the investigation are prepared in the usual order within the Government Office. The aim is for the directives to be adopted as soon as possible.
i-5494e32e83085a07-329	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden has for a long time taken a great deal of responsibility for asylum seekers. Sweden is still one of the countries in the EU that receives the highest number of asylum seekers per inhabitant. Last year, Sweden was the country in the EU that granted the second highest number of asylum applications in terms of population. This is followed by family migration and quota refugees, while Sweden is struggling with a major integration failure with exclusion, crime, unemployment and housing shortages as a result. Too many kids never get to see their mom and dad go to work. The fact that we are now in a position to come forward with proposals that increase immigration is deeply irresponsible. Migration policy must in future be tight, sustainable and clearly linked to our ability to integrate those who have come here – or rather our inability to integrate. In spite of this, the government, together with the Liberals and the Center Party, is proposing a more extensive family immigration in connection with the extension of the temporary law. In addition, the same parties have agreed in the January agreement to push for a new basis for protection. It is a measure that would further increase immigration to Sweden. Morgan Johansson has previously said that the forthcoming parliamentary investigation on migration will only review a few issues. He has exemplified with permanent versus temporary residence permits as well as the new humanitarian protection base. This means that, in that case, the need for a broad review of the entire Swedish migration policy is completely ignored. We Moderates believe that a further patching and repairing is the last thing Swedish migration policy needs now. Instead, a comprehensive investigation is required, with a number of issues on the table. These include family immigration, the upgrading of citizenship, qualification into welfare and effective return. Now is the time to take responsibility for a long-term sustainable migration policy. That's the background to my interpellation. I have asked the Minister for Migration when the government intends to come back with a directive to a parliamentary inquiry – now it is urgent – and whether the government is prepared to take a broad approach to the whole migration policy in such an investigation. In his reply today, Morgan Johansson said that all parliamentary parties would be invited to the parliamentary committee, and that in itself would be the reason for a broad discussion. I am a little afraid that Morgan Johansson has misunderstood what I mean by a broad grasp of the whole migration policy. I welcome, of course, the fact that all parties are allowed to participate in the discussions, but what I am mainly referring to is not how many people are sitting at the table, but that all issues should be raised on the table. The questions remain: how ambitious is the government to be in its work on migration policy? Should you just look at a few questions, as Morgan Johansson has previously stated to the media, or are you now prepared to take responsibility and take a holistic approach to the issue of migration? I'm really looking forward to an answer.
i-5494e32e83085a07-338	Madam President, I would like There's a story. In 2014, we inherited a situation from the moderate-led government. That refugee policy was totally untenable. Then Sweden had Europe's most generous rules. That's what the Moderates went to elections in 2014 - open your hearts, we all remember. The situation was then that the Moderates thought that Sweden would receive many refugees, but it would only be Social Democratic municipalities. The moderate municipalities wouldn't have to. You were totally opposed to any legislation that would mean that even moderate municipalities would have to take responsibility. But it wasn't just this. You also secured the EBO system. It was not the case that Social Democratic municipalities would take all responsibility, but then the asylum seekers would be pushed into already crowded apartments in the affected areas with the help of the EBO system. You refused to take any discussion on the EBO system at that time. To sum up your policy then, 2014: It was this combination of the most generous rules across Europe but that only Social Democratic municipalities should take responsibility, no moderates, and that asylum seekers should then be pushed into already crowded apartments in the vulnerable areas. For those who ask what is an unsustainable migration policy, the answer is precisely the 2014 Moderate Policy. We have now left it. It turned out that it was totally unsustainable when we entered the refugee crisis in 2015 with 163 000 asylum seekers in one year, 10 000 a week, and had a situation where the whole asylum system was breaking down. Then we had to tighten up, as we did through the border controls, the ID checks and the temporary law. We now also have the law that could finally come into place that says that all municipalities should take responsibility – also Vellinge and Lidingö and Täby and the other moderate municipalities. We have also come up with a law reforming the EBO system so that it will not, in the same way as today, cover the vulnerable areas. It will also help to reduce segregation. We concluded a migration agreement in 2015 together with all the bourgeois parties, and on it we have built a great deal of our policy. But we have also pursued an economic policy which has enabled integration to improve over these years. Employment has increased. The start-up period, i.e. the time for a new arrival to enter the labour market, has been almost halved during our time. Unemployment has fallen during this period. At the moment we have a situation where we have the lowest reception in the asylum system for 13 years. It is a consequence of the changes that we have made. We've been able to regain control. If we extend the temporary law for two years, we will have two years to review the rules that will apply in the future. What I have said in that debate is that there are some issues that are urgent that we must resolve and that are covered by the temporary law. These are temporary and permanent residence permits, for example. That is the question of the basis of protection, that is to say, what the basis of protection we should have. But it is also, as the Moderates point out, family immigration and the supply requirement. It is also an issue that we need to look at. Then a number of parties in addition wanted to take further questions into the investigation. Some parties have highlighted the issue of legal pathways. Other parties, not least the Moderates, have highlighted the issue of return. Of course I look at it and see what you say. We will process this directive in the future. At the same time, we must be able to solve the emergency tasks during the time available, that is to say, the two years that the temporary law will now cover. But we will come back with directives as soon as they are completed.
i-5494e32e83085a07-349	Madam President, I would like I will try to respond to the somewhat sprawling answer to what I thought were fairly clear questions. Of course you can stand here and point your finger and say that you thought this before. Then I must point out, if I am going to get into that game, that during the migration policy in force in 2014, to which Morgan Johansson refers, it sounded very different from the Social Democrats. At that time the Social Democrats criticized the Moderates for thinking that refugee policy was too tight. For example, they did not want the demands of livelihoods in family migration. In this context, I must also point out the statement made by the Prime Minister himself in the midst of a burning refugee crisis in 2015: "Then politics was hurriedly changed, as was presented by Löfven and Romson at a press conference in November of the same autumn. We also agreed – right to be right – on the distribution of asylum seekers as agreed in the Migration Agreement. It was supported by the Moderates. It should be said correctly in this House's pulpit. It sounds like the Minister for Migration is quite satisfied with the situation. At the same time, I note that last year 133 000 residence permits were granted in Sweden. Of these, 42,000 were directly related to the reception of asylum. So we still have a high reception. The Finnish Immigration Service is talking about forecasts of up to 24 000 asylum seekers this year and 28 000 next year. For five years it is believed that we will receive over 100,000. In addition, quota refugees and family migration. With regard to integration, which is so incredibly closely linked to the issue of migration, we can see that it takes eight years before half of the new arrivals have a job to go to. For the average immigrant from Somalia, income for the first nine years was zero crowns. For it from Iraq it was also close to zero crowns during the first nine years. Four out of ten students with foreign background did not qualify for upper secondary school. That's almost three times as many as all the nines combined. I do not think that this is a reason for the Minister for Migration to be particularly satisfied. Nor do I think that there is any reason for the Minister for Migration now to duck the responsibility to take a holistic approach to migration policy. We've just been through an election and a tricky government formation. Now there is time to take real responsibility, and I think that the government and the Minister for Migration should take the opportunity to do so. I would like to hear about the migration minister's view of family immigration, which now tends to move in a more generous direction. In the latest forecast, which came yesterday, the Migration Agency warns that immigration from Syria, for example, can increase due to the changed regulations. Swedish citizenship must be upgraded. Here I note that there is a fresh interest from the Green Party and the Social Democrats to discuss this issue. Then I wonder: does it want to do so within the framework of the parliamentary inquiry, or does it think of any other format? I mentioned qualification into welfare. We must have a system in which access to the Swedish welfare system is progressively increased and where there is a clearer link between migration, integration and the Swedish welfare systems. I'll have to come back to a workable return job in the next post. However, we can see that only this year and next year the Migration Agency estimates that over 20 000 cases will be handed over to the Police Authority. We need to deal with this.
i-5494e32e83085a07-360	Madam President, I would like The number of asylum seekers to Sve Rige is thus the lowest in 13 years. It is a consequence of the austerity that we have made, but of course also of developments in our world – that it is harder to get through Europe but also that some of the wars in the Middle East, at least in Syria, seem to be coming to an end. When Maria Malmer Stenergard talks about over 130 000 residence permits, she must include all labour immigration, and it really strikes the Moderates. You do not want to make the slightest restriction on labour migration, even if people are going to turn burgers at a hamburger restaurant in Sweden. Then you should be able to recruit them from Pakistan, from Turkey or from Ukraine. That is what the Moderates think is the ultimate regulation. So do not mix labour migration figures in this, but focus on asylum seekers! As I said, we have the lowest figure in 13 years. On the question of integration, it was 2015 – 2016, when there were so many, a lot of accident rabbles that were cracking and said that now unemployment will be rising. Now there will be mass unemployment. Was it then, Madam President? No, it was just the opposite. Unemployment has continued to fall. Employment has risen. Does Maria Malmer Stenergard know in which group of employment is rising most? It's in the group of foreign-born women. After five years, foreign-born women have a higher employment rate than domestic women have in the EU, in general. This means that the families who come here gradually adapt to the two-supporter standard that we have in Sweden, where both men and women work. It is actually quite remarkable, I would say. During the time of the alliance government, it took an average of eight years for a newcomer to enter the labour market. Today, that figure is almost halved – we are talking about four to five years. We have over 100 000 job vacancies, and for the young people who are now entering the labour market – including the unaccompanied – the labour market is extremely bright. For example, I read the other day that there are now more summer jobs to apply for than ever before. When the Moderates ruled, youth unemployment was so high that we received crisis grants from the rest of the EU. Now we have reduced unemployment so that during the last parliamentary term it was the lowest in 17 years. Of course you can see both the positive and the negative. My picture is that we survived the refugee crisis. We managed to accommodate over 100,000 people in four months. For the vast majority of these people it has gone very well. I met a family from Syria that had arrived a few years ago in Falköping on May 1st. Now they had jobs and established themselves here. They thanked so much for the protection they had received – along with 175 000 other Syrians who were protected in Sweden during the war. In reality, I am very proud of this. However, we must have long-term prospects. I have said that we need to resolve certain issues within the timeframe. It is about temporary residence permits and protection grounds, but also about family immigration. As Maria Stenergard points out, this is an important point that we must include in the investigation. I can see that there are other issues that one would like to raise. I take into account what the parties say, and we will come back to the parties when we are done with the directives – we will be in the near future. I hope that we will have a constructive discussion in the parliamentary committee on what will apply in Sweden in the long term.
i-5494e32e83085a07-369	Madam President, I would like I think there are very few people who would agree with the image that the Minister for Migration paints of how integration in Sweden goes. In fact, the difference in unemployment between domestic and foreign births increased during the last term when the Social Democrats ruled, from 10 percentage points in 2014 to 11.6 percentage points in 2018. I do not think this is a positive development. To this we will add all the major problems we see with exclusion, housing shortages, criminality and children who never get to see their parents go to work. I have to say that it is distressing that the Minister for Migration is not able to take on board the serious problems that we are actually struggling with and which play a very important role in our ability to welcome people to this country in the future. The refugee crisis is not over. It is enough to visit our municipalities to see it. Schools, hospitals and civil society are still working at high speed to deal with the consequences of a large refugee reception in Sweden for many years. Yet the Social Democrats are obviously prepared to open up the regulatory framework so that it becomes even more generous, in a situation where we have these serious integration problems. But now is not the time to patch and fix again, create loopholes and complicate, rush and blame. Instead, now is the time to create new – a new, sustainable, long-term and tight migration policy, which is clearly linked to our ability, or inability, to integrate. If the government is prepared to do this – take a holistic approach and really take responsibility – the Moderates are prepared to participate fully in taking responsibility as well. I sincerely hope that the government can see the outstretched hand and that we can begin this incredibly important work.
i-5494e32e83085a07-374	Madam President, I would like I think most people know that unemployment has fallen sharply during our period, and that is actually true across the board. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that the difference between foreign and domestic born has increased. This is because we have had a more positive development for domestic rather than foreign-borns, but overall the employment rate has increased for both groups. Above all, as I said, the participation rate is increasing most among foreign-born women; that is actually the case. Of course, we see this in public finances too. If unemployment is reduced and growth is maintained, we also have positive public finances, which we now have. I think we have the lowest public debt since 1977, and we have surpluses in public finances. Of course, we still have a lot of questions to resolve. I have pointed out the urgent issues that need to be resolved, because they are covered by the temporary law. It is about the view of temporary and permanent permits and, in the case of temporary permits, how long they should last. It is a question of a basis for protection, that is, on which basis you can obtain a residence permit in Sweden. And that is the question of family immigration, and that is one of the issues raised by Maria Stenergard. We also need to include it in the investigation. Other parties have taken legal paths, for example. The Moderates and other parties have also raised the issue of improved return. I believe that, when we are done with the process, we will find a directive allowing the parties to pursue the issues they wish to pursue within the framework of the Committee. I hope, of course, that the Moderates are also involved in that process. It would be weird if I didn't. What if we got a situation where the Swedish Democrats join the committee, but the Moderates are outside? I think that would be very strange. I therefore look forward to a good and constructive process in the committee that we are about to set up.
i-5494e32e83085a07-380	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me what evaluations the Government has made regarding the consequences of the Upper Secondary Education Act and what conclusions the Government has drawn from these. Sweden faced completely new challenges as a result of the refugee situation in 2015. The government took a number of steps to address these challenges. The Act on Temporary Restrictions on Residence Permits in Sweden entered into force in July 2016, and border controls and ID controls were introduced. In addition, return efforts were made more effective, including through an increased number of detention places and the conclusion of Memoranda of Understanding with Afghanistan. One of the challenges was the long processing times for asylum cases. Young people who have stayed in Sweden for a long time without their family have during that time gone to school and rooted here. The long wait for a decision from the Finnish Immigration Service and the uncertainty about a decision to be made before the 18th anniversary have in many cases caused the stay in Sweden to be characterised by great concern and uncertainty in a way that has made this group particularly vulnerable. The provision for a new residence permit for upper secondary school studies, introduced on 1 July 2018, is a temporary measure aimed at a limited group of unaccompanied young people who have come to Sweden as a child and started their schooling but have been affected by long processing times in the asylum process. These people are offered the opportunity to stay due to studies. Impact assessments were carried out in the preparation of the provision in bill 2017/ 18:252 for parliamentary treatment. The Government has decided on temporary community support for young unaccompanied minors, which concerns this group. The provision on a new residence permit for upper secondary school studies still applies. All those who have applied for a residence permit on the basis of upper secondary school studies have not yet been tried and therefore no evaluation has been carried out.
i-5494e32e83085a07-384	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Upper Secondary Education Act has led to around 6,000 residence permits for adults who have no grounds for protection. The law is aimed at young adults who have received, or should have been given, an expulsion decision. Instead, they are allowed to stay in Sweden, not because they need protection, but because they are studying or intend to study in high school. We are now receiving reports of serious consequences of the High School Act, which the S- and MP government pushed forward. These are young men who are unoccupied, forced to live on the street and exploited by criminal gangs. The municipalities are confused about how to deal with the situation. Even from Social Democratic councillors, voices are raised about how untenable and ill-considered the law is. But, Madam President, the serious situation can hardly come as a surprise. It is a piece of legislation which received rare sharp criticism from the committees and not least from the Council of Ministers, particularly in relation to the lack of impact assessment. For example, the lack of housing in many parts of the country can hardly come as a surprise. This is the background to my interpellation, and I have asked the Minister for Migration what evaluations the Government has made regarding the consequences of the Upper Secondary Education Act and what conclusions the Government has drawn from them. In his reply to me today, Morgan Johansson points out that an impact assessment was carried out in connection with the legislative proposal. But it is quite clear that it did not take up the huge problems that we are now seeing around the municipalities and that the Social Democrats' own local councillors are repeatedly warning about. Morgan Johansson also points out that the government has given municipalities a temporary financial contribution as a result of the High School Act. That support is also included in the budget passed by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in this House. But I do understand, and I sincerely hope that Morgan Johansson will also do so, that this type of money bags does not remedy the strained situation that one has in the municipalities, with overcrowding, lack of teachers, lack of staff in social services and gang crime, to name but a few examples. This is not just about money; society must also be able to do so. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the High School Act is just one of several examples of an unsustainable migration policy, which has been patched and fixed for many years. We are getting further and further away from the coherent policies required in the area of migration. As I pointed out in an earlier debate today, a long-term and tight migration policy is needed that is sustainable and clearly adapted to the extensive integration problems that Sweden is actually struggling with. We can't patch and cook again. Instead, however, this seems to be what we are prepared to do, by changing the rules on family immigration once again and by examining a new basis for a residence permit. Social Democratic municipal councillor John Johansson in Örebro said this in March this year to SVT:...I think you should have done more impact assessment: What will this mean where people will live? It's been missing, I think. ..................................................... I can only agree with him. Therefore, I wonder: What does Morgan Johansson want to say to John Johansson and others in the municipalities, who struggle with this every day? How will municipalities cope with the extensive consequences of the High School Act? And – perhaps more importantly – what does the government do to ensure that this will not happen again?
i-5494e32e83085a07-393	Madam President, I would like There's a story in this, too. This is, after all, an effect of 35 000 unaccompanied young people coming in 2015. It was a time when we had the old politics in place, i.e. the one that the Moderates and Fredrik Reinfeldt had stood for until 2014. It was a situation that we had to try to sort out. Perhaps the most important decision we made in order to take control of the situation was the identification checks in autumn 2015. I stood in the speaker's chair here in Parliament and defended the ID controls with the argument that we must ensure that many of the unaccompanied people go to other countries, not just to Sweden. Did the Moderates manage to vote for the ID controls? On the contrary, you had written articles in which you said they would destroy integration in the Öresund area. The Moderates abstained when we decided on the ID checks. Now we know in retrospect that the ID checks were absolutely crucial to taking control of the situation. Otherwise, we would not only have had 35 000, but perhaps 40 000, 50 000 or 60 000 unaccompanied minors to take care of. So we received 35 000 unaccompanied persons in 2015. One thing that also recorded was that we were one of the few countries that did not have the possibility of medical age assessments. It had failed in 2013 under the moderate-led government, and nothing had been done to restore it. Today we have a regime in which, following the introduction of ID controls and other austerity measures, the number of unaccompanied minors has fallen by over 95%. We also have a system for medical age assessments in place, so that we actually have an opportunity to find out how old the young people really are when they come to Sweden. We did not have that during the reign of the Moderates. We're in control of the situation right now. Then Maria Malmer asks Stenergard if we should not make an evaluation. You do that after you've done something. At the moment, however, we are in the middle of the process of applying the High School Act. Afterwards, you'll see how it's worked. I can only say that legally it works well. It stood up in the Migration Court of Appeal. Many people thought that it would not be applicable, but it can be applied since last year. It is tested on a case-by-case basis if you meet the criteria that exist. So far, more than 9 00 0 applications have been processed and 6 400 have been accepted. So it is 70% approval rate. For example, those who have been rejected have received it because they came here after 24 November 2015, that they did not have as long a waiting period as stipulated, no more than 15 months, or that they did not pass the vandelstestningen. For example, if you have committed crimes in Sweden, you do not get a residence permit either. So this is not an amnesty, nor is it unconditional. If you have been in Sweden for a very long time and came before 24 November 2015, you should have the opportunity to study in high school. Then you should establish yourself in the labour market. Then you have to stay. So there is no calllessness: care for the school, stay in the skin and establish yourself in the labour market, and you will have the opportunity to stay! I think that most of these young people will be doing very well. They have high motivation for study, and they also go on a labour market that for young people is stronger than in many years. Youth unemployment has fallen sharply in recent years. When we're through the process, we'll have to make an evaluation, and we'll see how it's all gone together. But we'll do that once we've gone through it.
i-5494e32e83085a07-404	Madam President, I would like You just have to love Swedish politics! Here I put a question to the Minister for Migration about the serious consequences that the High School Act has in the municipalities, where Social Democratic local councillors repeatedly warn that the situation cannot be dealt with. Then what answer do I get? Well, the response criticises the Moderates' position on the question of ID controls. We had another model for how they were to be introduced. That is not taking responsibility, is it, Madam President? Now we are discussing the High School Act and the serious consequences of it that we see. Then I think we should stick to this. I do not believe that the members of the Council of Ministers would share the positive view of the High School Act expressed here by the Minister for Migration. Madam President, I would like Sweden must have a humane migration policy that respects human rights and international conventions. I believe that it is also our duty to give priority to protecting those most in need of protection. Instead, the Upper Secondary Education Act provides protection for people who have no grounds for protection. In fact, one can question whether this is right and fair to those who are on the run in a broken world. The morally correct and humane nature of those covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act is also questionable. In order to obtain a permanent residence permit, those covered by the law must have a job and self-sufficiency within six months of completion of their studies. Those who cannot do this will then be expelled after having been a long time in Sweden. The law is more likely to be a long-term expulsion, as has also been pointed out by Skåne Stadsmission, among others. That, Madam President, is hardly humane to me. Therefore, I would like to ask Morgan Johansson: Is it reasonable to introduce special legislation that gives priority to a certain group of people who do not have protection reasons over others? Is that right and fair? Again, I wonder if the government will work to prevent this from happening again. And is it really humane to let people stay here longer when there is a great risk that they will still have to be expelled?
i-5494e32e83085a07-409	Madam President, I would like I just pointed out how the Moderates couldn't stand it when it really was about being involved in a solution. You couldn't stand up for the ID checks because you were divided into your group. Some of you thought it was a good solution, but others of you were against it. So it was concluded that you should abstain instead. It was a decision you made, as I understand it, very late. In fact, it came as a surprise to me when we pushed through the ID checks in autumn 2015 that the Moderates were unable to vote for it. Now we got through the ID checks anyway, and it was lucky. Otherwise, we would have had far greater problems than we would have in the coming years. I note that the Migration Court of Appeal stated in its final decision last autumn that the law could be applied and that the preparation of the legislation was complete. Now it works as it should, simply. Again, it does not mean that it is some kind of calllessness, nor is it an amnesty. It is based on the fact that those who came in the large group before 24 November 2015 and have had to wait a very long time for the news – because there were so many who came – should at least have a chance to complete high school and establish themselves in the labour market. I also believe that there is a strong humanitarian reason here. Those who have studied in high school, rooted in Sweden to some extent, know Swedish and have very high study motivation, it will probably go quite well for. If we hadn't had the High School Act, we would have had many more problems with young people on the street. Six thousand people now have the opportunity to remain in upper secondary school. If they had been rejected, the risk would have been that they would have ended up in the very group to which Maria Malmer Stenergard points, with social problems, with criminality, with drug abuse. Maria Malmer Stenergard refers to Skåne Stadsmission when it comes to the problem picture, but I do not believe that Stadsmissionen is against the High School Act as such. I rather believe that most people who work with these young people want even more to stay. Maria Malmer Stenergard does not have those organisations on her side – it is rather the opposite. Like I said, you get the opportunity to finish high school. If you are in the system, you also have access to study funds to be able to e.g. solve your housing, and you will be able to go out on a labour market that is stronger than in many, many years. It provides a fairly good basis, I would say, for these young people. I've met a large number of them. The people I meet are always extremely motivated. They want to continue, and they want to meet these requirements, and I think most of them will. Then they will be a good asset in a common community building in the future.
i-5494e32e83085a07-416	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I think that it should be taken seriously when civil society warns that the legislation that has been developed risks only leading to lengthy expulsions. It's hardly humane. Swedish migration policy must be based on the fact that a yes is a yes and that a no is really a no. Anyone who has reason to stay should not only be welcomed within Sweden's borders but must also be given a real chance to be welcomed into Swedish society and participate in contributing. It places huge demands on us as a country and our ability to integrate. Those who have no reason to stay will be told quickly, and they will be given quick help to return. In time, however, the boundaries between yes and no have actually been blurred, as there have been an increasing number of separate regulations and departures. This has been done with good intentions – I am absolutely convinced of that. But it has not had good consequences. It's not humane to pull out an expulsion like that. It is not right or reasonable to give priority to them, but rather to the need for protection over those who actually need protection. Being a politician is not always easy. I have great respect for the fact that Morgan Johansson has a difficult task, but now Morgan Johansson has a really good chance of making a real difference and taking the initiative on the long-term and sustainable migration policy that we really need and that is required if we are to cope with integration problems. It should be a clear anchor in reality. That is perhaps where I see some shortcomings, but I hope that in the future we will be able to work together on this issue, so that we really get the long-term migration system in place.
i-5494e32e83085a07-420	Madam President, I would like What I know about civil society's attitude on these issues is rather that civil society organisations have exactly the opposite view in relation to the Moderates. The civil society organisations that I come across, not least those who work with these young people, do not want to abolish the High School Act – quite the contrary. They probably want it to include even more and that we should turn the requirements down. It is recognised that we would have had 6 000 more people on the streets, with the social problems that would have arisen if we had not had the High School Act. Now there is an opportunity: If you came before 24 November 2015 and if you had to wait a very long time and therefore had time to root out and maybe start speaking Swedish and join the programs available at high school, you will have the opportunity to stay, not undemanded but if you meet these requirements. Why did we make demands for upper secondary school studies? That wasn't obvious either. Yes, we did for the simple reason that in Sweden you should have upper secondary school studies at the bottom to do well in the labour market in the future. That is why we linked it to this. One could have said: All right, you can go straight to the labour market. But then we know that we would probably have had problems at a later stage. That's why we tied it to high school studies. I think that's right to do. I think we have landed in a position that allows us to take responsibility for many of the unaccompanied persons who were hanged in the system year after year because they did not get their case tried. Now they are given another chance, and in my view that is the humanitarian right thing to do.
i-5494e32e83085a07-424	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me what measures I and the government are taking to ensure that researchers are not expelled for carrying out part of their research in another country. She has also asked me when, in time, the solution to the problem of competence expulsions announced in the January agreement will be in place. From the point of view of the question, I think it concerns the right of foreign doctoral students to a residence permit and not the right of visiting researchers to do so. International doctoral students contribute in a valuable way to research at Swedish universities and higher education institutions. This ultimately provides competitive advantages for Swedish companies, which are often at the forefront of innovative industries. It is therefore important to facilitate international mobility within the scientific community. Doctoral students are granted a residence permit for higher education studies in Sweden. According to the Finnish Immigration Service's practice, they can be granted a residence permit if they will be in Sweden at least half of the time for which they have applied for a permit. A continuous stay of up to a quarter of the permit period is accepted. It can be noted that the question of whether a doctoral student who has studied abroad can be granted a residence permit extension is subject to the appeal of the Migration Court of Appeal in a case that has been appealed there. There will be an increasing number of foreign doctoral students at doctoral studies in Sweden. Over the past ten years, they have increased from 20 to 35 per cent of all doctoral students. The proportion of doctoral students granted an extension of their residence permits is also high. In 2018, it was 97 per cent. So we have a positive development in this area. Within the Government Office, work is currently under way to implement the so-called Student and Research Directive in Swedish law. The Directive contains, among other things, rules to facilitate the mobility of students and researchers within the EU. In the case of so-called competence expulsions, the issue is negotiated with the parties concerned with the aim of setting up an investigation in the near future.
i-5494e32e83085a07-430	Madam President, I would like Muhammad Irfan has a master from Antwerp and researches what causes memory disorders in humans. He does so at Karolinska Institutet here in Stockholm. He is a few experiments from being able to put on the doctoral hat, but now he will be expelled from Sweden. The reason is that he has conducted parts of his research in the United States. In the United States there are labs with advanced equipment and knowledge in the specific type of brain research that the project needs. The verdict has been appealed, but Muhammad has lived with the threat of expulsion for a long time. In an interview, the researcher's supervisor at Karolinska Institutet says that the project has not been completed because the researcher has not been allowed to go back to the US to do the final experiments. Madam President, I would like It is absurd that researchers are expelled from Sweden because parts of the research have been conducted in another country. Sweden should be an attractive country for skilled labour, driven entrepreneurs and skilled students. Right now it feels like Sweden is becoming just the opposite. It has now been just over three months since the January agreement was concluded between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. It states that the problem of skills deportation needs to be resolved. So far, however, there has not been a single political initiative from the Social Democratic-led government to put an end to the expulsions of competence. This is the background to my interpellation. What measures are the Government and the Minister taking to ensure that researchers are not expelled from Sweden because they have carried out parts of their research in another country? When will the solution to the problem of competence expulsions announced in the January agreement be in place? I must admit that I am quite surprised at the answer in this House today. The Minister for Migration devotes long pieces to describing how important foreign doctoral students are for Swedish companies and for Sweden. However, as far as the answers to my two questions are concerned, he remains very brief: the question of setting up an investigation is being negotiated with the parties concerned. The parties concerned – I assume that it is the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party – have already agreed that the issue of competence expulsions should be resolved. The case of Muhammad and several others shows that it is urgent, so I repeat my question: When and how does the government intend to address the problem of competence expulsions?
i-5494e32e83085a07-438	Madam President, I would like First, one can generally say that Sweden is an attractive country for researchers. As I say in my answer, the proportion of foreign doctoral students has increased as soon as possible in recent years. Approximately 1 000 new permits are granted per year. We also have a very high grant rate, between 97% and 99%, both in terms of first-time grants and extensions. It implies that the vast majority, up to 99 percent of cases, understand and follow the rules that exist. In addition, we have worked very actively with the processing times in recent years. We have commissioned the Migration Agency to shorten the times, and we are now seeing results. Processing times are falling for all categories of students from 2016 to 2018. For doctoral students, the processing time has been reduced by 30 per cent, and for visiting researchers the processing time has been reduced by almost 40 per cent. Sweden is thus an attractive country to research in, those who apply here get in the vast majority of cases extended and the processing times have fallen sharply. It is also faster and faster to find out. The regulation is not something I have invented, but it has existed for a very long time: If you are looking for a study place in Sweden, it is mainly in Sweden that you will study or research. You can't just take up a place in Sweden and then read somewhere else. You can't come to Sweden one day and then go to the USA the next day and be there for the rest of your studies. If you are going to do research in the United States, it is to the United States that you should apply and not to Sweden. This framework has been in place for a very long time, and it is not unknown to those who apply here. That's why we have such a high level of grant– this is known. In these cases, you are looking for two years, and you have to say that the regulations are still quite generous when it comes to travelling abroad. At least half of the time should be in Sweden. In total, during the two years, you can study in another country for one year and still follow the rules. During that year you can be six months continuous in another country. Against this background, it is still quite generous. This is something everyone knows who is applying to study abroad from. That is why we have a grant rate of up to 99% in the case of extension. As I said, these rules have been in place for a very long time. This is a practice that has been established by the Finnish Immigration Service and also through courts. I know this is being tried in court, and we'll see what happens in the end. But I do not think it is unreasonable that it is mainly in Sweden that you should study if you are applying to study in Sweden. Then there are the rules on foreign studies. With regard to the broader issue of directives for the investigation, we are also working on this and negotiating directives between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals. I see that this spring we will be able to present these directives, which deal with much broader issues than this. So we are in the middle of a process, and we will, of course, come back when we are done with this.
i-5494e32e83085a07-448	Madam President, I would like First of all, I should be fair and commend the government: I think it is good that priority is given to reducing processing times. That is, of course, very important. However, the problem of displaced people being expelled because of what is actually petitess persists. On a weekly basis, we hear about how Sweden misses out on important skills. We can't really afford that. The government has said that it wants to address the problems, but since the signing of the January agreement, it seems rather that the government has cut back on the level of ambition. Only a few weeks ago, Morgan Johansson had a debate with my Moderate colleague, Mr Arin, in this Chamber. Morgan Johansson then said:.If you come here from the other side of the world and are going to work here, you have a personal responsibility to find out which conditions apply and which rules to follow. This is in line with what Morgan Johansson is also saying here today. Does Morgan Johansson really want to look Muhammad in the eye and say: It was your personal responsibility to know that you as a researcher at Karolinska Institutet cannot carry out experiments at a university in the United States, because that is why you should be expelled from Sweden. In fact, if Morgan Johansson does not want to look Muhammad in the eye and say this, it is Morgan Johansson's duty now to ensure that the problem of competence expulsions is addressed as soon as possible. This and many other cases show that the problems remain. It's urgent. More must not be affected, and we must not risk deterring talent from coming here and building Swedish research and Swedish cutting-edge companies stronger. Madam President, I would like I have a supplementary question. The investigation that Morgan Johansson is now mentioning and that is going to go into a broader investigation, is it the same as the major migration investigation? Does this mean, then, that we can expect directives to come in the spring as well? I would like an answer to that. Another issue concerns the talent visa, which is promised in the January agreement. When do you think it'll be in place? I would also like to point out that, even if it is in place, it does not help those who are already here and who live with the threat of expulsion solely because of these petty misdemeanours, that is to say, the deportation of skills. That is why the issue of competence expulsions must also be dealt with, and I believe that the government's interest is, unfortunately, a little weak.
i-5494e32e83085a07-457	Madam President, I would like On the question of which investigations we are talking about, the migration investigation is one of them. Labour immigration comes under a different investigation track, but also those directives are now being negotiated with the Center Party and the Liberals. In fact, I still have to ask the question: surely the Moderates cannot think that it is reasonable to apply for research in Sweden and so the next day you go to another country, for example the USA, and are there the rest of the study time and only take up one place in Sweden? There must still be some kind of requirement that it is in Sweden that you should conduct the main part of your studies and your research. As it is now, you get two years. Half that time, i.e. a year, and for a continuous period of six months you can then conduct research abroad. I do not think it is unreasonable to make this request. Can I look Muhammad in the eye? Yes, I can look anyone in the eye when it comes to various issues, and of course I stand by my opinion that when you come here to Sweden and apply for a work permit, you also have a personal responsibility to know what the rules look like. This applies to those who come here as labour immigrants, and this applies not least to the employer who brings someone to work in Sweden. When you bring someone from across the world, you have a personal responsibility to ensure that you also comply with pay rules and working conditions. If you don't, you also know what the consequences are. The vast majority in these cases follow the rules that exist. When we have a grant rate for extensions of up to 99%, the regulatory framework cannot be so dire that it is unable to comply with it. Of course, it requires that you keep track of the rules when you get here. As I said, we are preparing both the issue of migration and the issue of labour immigration. When it comes to labour migration, it is important for us to ensure that it cannot be used in such a way that an employer brings people from across the world who get to work for 30 kronor an hour and live in a basement. This undermines both competition neutrality with other companies and exploits people in the labour market. We Social Democrats will never allow such a development. Whatever we do in terms of labour migration, we must also ensure that the labour market continues to function properly and that basic contractual rules can be maintained.
i-5494e32e83085a07-464	Madam President, I would like Now I'm becoming unsure whether Morgan Johansson can see that there is a problem with competence expulsions at all. I personally think that it is completely absurd that we should be expelled from Sweden because parts of the research have been carried out in another country. Sweden should of course be an attractive country for skills, labour, driven entrepreneurs and skilled students. However, current policies risk leading Sweden in the opposite direction. It is clear that the rules should be complied with. I'll sign that. However, anyone who has followed the media knows that there are details and interpretations of the regulations that are obviously quite unreasonable, where people are expelled from this country because of petitess that they could not have foreseen. Unfortunately, Muhammad is not alone. Another example is an engineer at ABB who was expelled last summer because a previous employer, before ABB, had failed to take out insurance. ABB wants to hire him again. But he has no right to come here because of the old fault of a former employer. Unfortunately, it is only one of all these examples. I do not think this is reasonable. Nor do I think that such regulations are comparable to when people come here and are exploited under slave-like conditions and are allowed to live under hideous conditions. Of course, I think that is as bad as the Minister for Migration thinks. But it's not quite the same thing. Madam President, I would like If you work and do the right thing, you should not be expelled from Sweden because of petitess. The Moderates have been highlighting these problems for years. Now, in fact, I think it is high time the government acted.
i-5494e32e83085a07-469	Madam President, I would like We've already acted. There was a change of law last year about an opportunity for the employer to what is called self-rectification, that is, if you see that you have made a mistake and the question is raised again for the examination of the Migration Agency, you can correct this error. But if we just let everything go freely and say that it does not matter under what conditions and rules someone has come here on, we are in fact in danger of destroying the basics of the labour market. And there are plenty of examples of people being exploited in a completely unacceptable way. Maria Stenergard can also read about this in the media from week to week, I would say. These include the restaurant industry and the construction industry. The nail salons we heard about only a few months ago, where this system of labour immigration is being exploited in a totally unacceptable way. We will therefore not give up on the existence of rules for the same conditions to apply. If anyone comes here to work in Sweden, Swedish wages and working conditions should apply. And the best thing that employers can do to ensure this is to sign a collective agreement. This means that much of this legislation is already in place. In addition, there is good cooperation with the trade union movement in each part. It is the best thing you can do to ensure that you really do well to take care of those who come here to work. With regard to this part, my principle is enough that if you come here to conduct research in Sweden, it is also mainly here that you should conduct the research. There are quite generous rules today to be able to go abroad and perhaps be there almost half the time. Then we will see what a judicial review of the individual cases eventually comes to in terms of practice.
i-5494e32e83085a07-472	Madam President, I would like Anders Hansson has asked me whether I and the government intend to review the possibilities of extending the tonnage tax system. Tonnage taxation is a voluntary scheme that can be applied from 2017. This means that the income from qualified shipping activities is calculated on a flat-rate basis on the basis of the net tonnage of the vessels. The flat-rate income is taxed at the tax rate in force. Shipowners who are qualified include the transport of goods and passengers by sea by vessels with a gross tonnage of at least 100, have strategic and economic management in Sweden and are mainly used on international or domestic voyages in another country. Furthermore, for shipping activities to be considered as qualified, a certain proportion of the vessels in the company's fleet must be registered in a register within the European Economic Area (EEA). When the system was introduced, the declared aim was to give Swedish shipping companies in international traffic conditions of competition equivalent to those of shipping companies in comparable countries in Europe. The government still believes that the system should be limited to ships that are mainly used on international or domestic voyages in another country. Strengthened Swedish shipping is an important tool for the Government's ambitions to increase Swedish exports to new growth markets, to move more long-distance goods transport from truck to train and shipping, and to contribute to a reduced climate impact from the transport sector. As stated when the tonnage tax system was introduced, shipping is a lifeblood for trade with the rest of the world, but ultimately also for Sweden's prosperity and for around 90 per cent of Sweden's exports and imports during the transport chain to be transported by ship. It can be said that the aim of the system was for Sweden, in an international perspective, to have a competitive shipping industry. Finally, I would like to remind you that when the system was introduced, the government (prop. 2015/ 16:127) stated that we intend to monitor and evaluate the effects of the legislation. However, such evaluation and follow-up should not be carried out until the system has been in force for a few years.
i-5494e32e83085a07-477	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Good conditions for Swedish shipping are fundamental for Sweden to be able to compete internationally with other countries in shipping. In this context, tonnage tax is important. The Alliance government took the initiative to introduce a Swedish tonnage tax, and in 2016 the former S-MP government completed it by presenting a legislative proposal after the European Commission had approved it. It also received the approval of the Riksdag and entered into force on 1 January 2017. The overall aim, in addition to a level playing field, was that more ships could be placed under the Swedish flag. Fortunately, the number of ships flagged in with the Swedish flag has slowly increased since its introduction. We were told some time ago that the 100th ship had now been flagged in from the previous 85 ships. This is certainly a modest increase as Sweden recently had over 200 ships under the Swedish flag. But let us rejoice in the small steps forward. It is always important that Sweden not only monitors developments in Swedish shipping but is also at the forefront of legislation, among other things. Having said that, I am therefore a little concerned by the Government's response. It seems that the government is satisfied with the present system and does not intend to make any changes in the future. Madam President, I would like In my world, one must always be prepared to improve legislation and adapt it to current circumstances as well as developments in the rest of the world. My concern will in fact, when I hear the Minister's response, be that the system should still be limited to ships that are mainly used on international or domestic voyages in another country. ..................................................... Thus, the government refuses to review a number of technical elements of the system that today discriminates against ships with a Swedish flag when it comes to operating on Sweden. For example, the requirement for 25 per cent operations outside Sweden leads in practice to Swedish shipping companies not being able to compete for contracts in Sweden, but foreign shipping companies get a comparative competitive advantage. I will take it again for the sake of effect: Swedish shipping companies cannot compete for contracts in Sweden with applicable rules. We are therefore in favour of foreign shipping companies. If that is how the government wants to support and strengthen Swedish shipping, I am really worried. A further issue related to the legislation is whether the size requirement for connected vessels is at a relevant level. Other countries, such as Denmark, have reduced the limit for this. In view of this, I wonder whether this is something that the Government would be willing to review. Madam President, I would like Fundamental to my argument is that Sweden can not only settle down with the fact that we now have a tonnage tax in place. The world is changing all the time, and we in Sweden must follow and be observant of changes that may disadvantage, or for that matter favour, Swedish shipping. If we stand still, we in Sweden will be surrounded, to great but for Swedish maritime competitiveness. I am convinced that Minister Andersson does not want to see this happen. But I am then a little worried about her answer, as it seems to be a response where you are not prepared to upgrade Swedish tonnage tax from today's system to the next version. It is more an answer that seems to be satisfied with the current system without looking forward. I hope I am wrong, because Swedish shipping needs the best conditions in its competition with others. I can assure you that I intend to push the government on this issue.
i-5494e32e83085a07-490	Madam President, I would like It is important that we have a tonnage tax system in place in Sweden. It took decades before it was in place, and several investigations looked at this. In fact, I think it was different colors of the governments that set up the investigations. It is clear that this has improved the competitiveness of Swedish shipping, and we also see some effect on flagging. For me, it goes without saying that we will evaluate this legislation when it has been in place for a while, but I think it may be a little early when it has been in place for just over a year. Instead, we should wait until it has been in place a little longer and we have more opportunities to see what the effects of the legislation are. Then, of course, we will be open to evaluating different parts of this legislation. I think it is important to emphasise that there was a broad consensus between the Moderates and the Social Democrats when this proposal was drawn up. There was no disagreement with the Moderates in that situation. In that bill there were also trade-offs in terms of size and how to look at domestic and foreign shipping. So I would like to see this legislation work for a further time before we do the evaluation. Then, of course, we shall look at all aspects of the legislation.
i-5494e32e83085a07-494	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Magdalena Andersson! It is true that, when the legislation was introduced, the government stated its intention to monitor and evaluate its effects. I think that's natural and wise. As the Government says, such an evaluation and follow-up should not take place until the system has been in force for a few years. This legislation was introduced on 1 January 2017, so it has been in force for at least a few years. It has been two and a half years since January 2017. I understand, of course, that you have to find a time when it feels appropriate. It is absolutely right that there were no differences of opinion when the legislation was introduced, but that does not mean that we can just sit still as it is now. The world around us is changing all the time, and that is why the question arises when the Government believes that time has been needed to give directives to such a follow-up. Are we talking next year, or are we talking five years? What is the time required? This is particularly true on the grounds that the legislation clearly excludes Swedish shipping companies from kontr act in Sweden because they do not have 25 per cent of their business outside Sweden. In this context, it is also possible to mention smaller shipping companies that have special vessels that are extremely important for Sweden from a preparedness perspective. Here, both the 25% rule and the size requirement for ships play a role in whether these vessels can be part of our tonnage system. However, I can readily admit that we are perhaps dealing here with another issue, which relates more to maritime aid. We have seen this not least now that the vessel Pleijel, which belongs to the Baltic Offshore in Kalmar and is a cable-laying vessel, has had problems with its maritime support. However, it goes a little alongside the tonnage tax. My question is precisely: when can we see this evaluation? It is dangerous if we sit back and say that we have legislation in place, which we thus introduced on 1 January 2017, if we are not prepared to review it now that Swedish shipping is pointing out certain shortcomings in the matter. I see it as a strength to be able to say that something means changed conditions compared to when the law was brought into force. We must be able to say that we can look further at it, and then, of course, we need a follow-up and an evaluation. I do not think, as I said, that it has to be a question of whether we follow up or not, but the question of wood is, in that case, when we are going to do it. I believe that this should happen very soon, because I think that we must constantly be on our toes so that Swedish shipping can compete with international shipping on the right terms.
i-5494e32e83085a07-500	Madam President, I would like Anders Hansson is absolutely right. I was apparently still in the 2018 election year. It was actually nice then too, but it is true that the system has been in place for more than two years. Normally, we leave systems in place a little longer than that before doing a review, unless something very dramatic happens. I would therefore argue that we should allow a little longer time before we carry out such an evaluation – if something big does not happen in the outside world, as I said. The criticism that is now available from the industry is the same as when these boundaries were made, and it is no surprise that the industry still has these views. They were there at the time, and different balances were made both in terms of the size of the ships and in terms of the proportion that would be in international traffic. It was therefore with open eyes that the Riksdag – Moderates and Social Democrats – decided on the system that we have today, and if nothing dramatic happens in the outside world, I would probably advocate waiting a little before making a change. However, changes around the world also point to what is not unproblematic in this and other sectors, namely the risk of having a race to the bottom in terms of tax levels in different sectors. From the Swedish side we don't usually want to be the leader in a race to the bottom in terms of tax levels and opportunities to levy taxes, but we want to wait and see what happens in other countries. Tax revenues are crucial for us to be able to finance preschools, schools, health care, retirement homes, police, defence and much more.
i-5494e32e83085a07-504	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Magdalena Andersson! I agree; as a moderate, I am the first to say that we should not levy more tax on citizens than is absolutely necessary. So I am totally in favour of that. It is, of course, important that shipping should be given the conditions it needs, and here it is undoubtedly also possible to look at the whole. We have the tonnage tax, fairway fees and pilotage fees, and we have the working environment and issues relating, for example, to the taxation of seafarers. Now I only took the tonnage tax for myself, but I can certainly also discuss the other issues with Magdalena Andersson. Because they belong together. Swedish shipping is affected by a great many factors, and the tonnage tax is one of them. We have the same goal: We want to see a vibrant and competitive Swedish shipping, and we want more ships to have a Swedish flag. It is not that we should have a race to the bottom, but at the same time we must not be so careful and sit so still in the boat – to take to the ship's speed – that we do not dare to make changes when we risk shipping companies starting to hesitate to flag ships to Sweden. Now we have a positive flagging of 15 ships – from 85 to 100 – which is gratifying and something that I think all parties in the Swedish Parliament are happy for. But we need to see what is going forward, and I think it is important that we are at the forefront. I will follow the question further.
i-5494e32e83085a07-509	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there is broad support in the Riksdag for us to have strong Swedish shipping. It is important for Sweden as an export nation that we have a strong shipping. It is also important for us to achieve our climate goals; it is much more climate-smart to transport goods by sea than by truck, for example. There is therefore much we need to work on here to ensure that we have good Swedish shipping and that it has competitive conditions internationally. Maritime transport is currently taxed in a variety of ways compared to other sectors, also because it is in fierce international competition. At the same time, it is important that we remain vigilant; we do not want Sweden to lead a race to the bottom internationally in terms of reducing taxes, thus making it more difficult not only for Sweden but also for other states to finance important activities that we need to finance together. Thank you very much for the interpellation! I wish you a nice weekend.
i-5494e32e83085a07-512	Madam President, I would like Hampus Hagman has asked me whether the government intends to act to ensure that the favourable rules that currently apply to sport also apply to other non-profit associations. The involvement of non-profit organisations is an important part of the possibility of outdoor activities. One part of the effort to achieve the objectives of the open air policy is therefore to strengthen the outdoor organisations. It is also essential for other public benefit organisations that the conditions for these activities are good. Free-air organisations contribute to increased exercise, better public health and improved well-being. Like other non-profit organisations with public benefit purposes, they are important meeting places and contact points for people. The association work itself – that individuals voluntarily and usually work together for a public benefit purpose for a low or no remuneration – also has a great value in itself. This type of action is very positive. A non-profit association for the promotion of sport is exempt from paying employers' contributions on compensation to a sportsperson if the compensation during the year has not been half a price base amount. This exemption from paying employers' contributions is linked to different limits. The limits are dealt with by the application of law. In the event of an extension of the exemption, it is not clear that all issues and uncertainties relating to which organisations are covered or to which benefits the exemption can be applied will disappear. On the contrary, as seems very likely, new boundaries may arise.
i-5494e32e83085a07-516	Madam President, I would like In civil society, associations and non-profit organisations, the foundations are laid for democracy. Sometimes it may sound like what is going on in civil society is just a leisure activity – a sidetrack to everything that is happening in the public or in the private – but the association life is much more important than that. In association, we learn to listen to others. We learn humanity, and we learn to compromise. We learn what is the basis of democracy. In addition, a positive role model in an association can often lead young people to the right path in life. We also know that community itself is positive for people. Involuntary loneliness costs society a large amount each year. Therefore, civil society's preconditions are very much a matter for parliament and government. It is precisely the conditions for civil society that this interpellation is about. The background is that sports clubs currently have favourable tax rules. This means that the association does not have to pay employers' fees for sportsmen, trainers or competition officials as long as the remuneration is less than half a price base amount. This rule is sometimes called half the basic amount rule. This exception means a great deal to sport. It creates the conditions for all the good that I just described. The same regulatory framework should apply to other non-profit organisations. In my interpellation, I exemplified with the organisations in Swedish Friluftsliv, where the difference in regulations probably becomes the most strange. These organisations, which, like sport, bring together a lot of people and which, like sport, help us to move around, to have a community and to learn the foundations of democracy, must not apply the rules on employers' contributions that sports organisations are allowed to apply. This is the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation of the law. Here the law needs to be changed. The Christian Democrats have tried to bring this about through motions to Parliament. I was a little surprised by the Minister for Finance's answer. My question was whether the government intends to act to ensure that the preferential rules that apply today to sport also apply to other non-profit organisations. The Minister for Finance said nothing about this. On the other hand, the Minister for Finance replied that it is not clear that all questions would disappear if an extension of the derogation were to be made. I should like to ask you this: is the government prepared to set up an investigation that can look at the issue and perhaps correct the signs that concern the government about how half the basic amount rule can be developed?
i-5494e32e83085a07-526	Madam President, I would like I share Hampus Hagman's view of the role of the non-profit sector in Swedish society. It's a meeting place. You meet people from different backgrounds. It's a place where young people get role models. It is a place where you gather and meet, often with a common interest and a common goal. It creates an incredible strength in our society. There are many people who spend an incredible amount of time teaching our young people not only to sport, to be out in nature, to practice culture or other things, but also to be part of this community and to be educated into democratic organisations. It is incredibly important to learn, for example, how an annual meeting works or to take assignments as treasurer or secretary in a small club. It means a lot to democratic education. Having said that, there is, of course, an exception precisely in the field of sport. I do not believe that the aim of this is above all to improve democratic education, but to promote sports in tax terms. As with all the exceptions in tax legislation, there will be problems of drawing borders, and here there are obvious problems of drawing borders. For example, Friluftsfrämjandet in a judgment has been entitled to this reduction; however, the Lifesaving Society has not received it. Having worked on tax matters for quite a number of years, I know that every time this type of derogation is made, there will be a problem of border drawing. If one were to move this limit and find some appropriate wording in the legislation, one would quickly have a new problem of border drawing. What about, for example, those who languish, practice gardening, or play chess? What about various forms of computer game associations? Then you sit instead with new bordering problems. From my point of view, it is important that this is a sector that has good conditions in general. This can be done in many ways other than by extending a tax exemption. For example, during the last parliamentary term we almost doubled the funding for the outdoor organisations.
i-5494e32e83085a07-532	Madam President, I would like I said earlier that I was a little surprised by the Minister of Finance's answer. It is clear that we share very much the view of civil society and non-profit organisations. Although the main objective of sport may not be to raise us in democracy, this is a very important side effect of a commitment to a sports association. I'm afraid my wonder hasn't changed. The Minister of Finance says that it is not clear that any question mark will disappear if an extension of the opt-out is made. Nor do I imagine that enlargement could not lead to future border problems. There are probably few changes in any system that do not involve any kind of bordering problems. There is a very simple way to avoid bordering problems, and that is to do nothing at all. That way, you don't have to draw boundaries. And it seems to me to be doing nothing at all, at least on tax conditions, which is the government's line on this issue. At least it's some kind of answer. This concerns me, and I am in fact convinced that it also concerns the associations involved. Not least, this is a skewedness that becomes very strange towards many of Swedish Friluftsliv's organizations, just as the Minister for Finance was on and as I also mentioned earlier. I want all non-profit organisations to be included, but Swedish Friluftsliv's organisations stand just like the Swedish Sports Federation's organisations for physical activity. It should be a relatively simple delimitation if the rules are now to be limited to certain types of non-profit organisations. In addition, the organisations in Swedish Outdoor Life were subject to half the basic amount rule when it came into force in the 90's. The contribution to these organisations was then handled by the Swedish Sports Federation, but after the policy has moved the grant from the Swedish Sports Federation, all these organisations are no longer covered by the rules. In Swedish Friluftsliv's case, therefore, it would in practice mean a restorer to the old, more favourable regulatory framework if they were allowed to benefit from the exemption. I want to be constructive, Madam President, and I see that a step in the right direction is better than no step at all. If the Minister of Finance is not prepared to look at this broadly, I still wonder whether she could envisage a minor extension, which would at least mean that outdoor recreation organisations would benefit from this derogation.
i-5494e32e83085a07-538	Madam President, I would like Supporting the outdoor organisations is not something with which I, as Finance Minister, have any problems whatsoever. On the other hand, I am not sure that this particular tax exemption is the very best way of supporting the organisations. We showed, of course, during the last parliamentary term our great willingness to do so by almost doubling the funds allocated to these organisations. However, just going on this exception was not the way that we assessed was the best way to support the organisations. If one sees the legal situation as strange or unclear, there is, of course, the possibility of pushing more cases to justice, because, as we both see, there are obvious problems of bordering. What is important to bear with regard to this exception is that if you do not pay employers' contributions, those who work in these organisations, such as judges who can judge in many different associations, do not receive the benefits that come with paying employers' contributions, such as pension points. For individuals, such as judges who judge in very many matches, it can be about quite large amounts of money that they will not receive a pension for when it is time to retire. It is also important to have with you when you look at this exception.
i-5494e32e83085a07-541	Madam President, I would like That is precisely why the derogation is limited to income up to half a price base amount. It's kind of small sums of money a year that it's all about. In this debate, I have tried to point out the great contribution of associations and civil society to Swedish society. It is a contribution that the association life has provided for a very long time. Since the 19th century's sobriety movement, labour movement and free church, civil society has contributed to making Sweden a better, more democratic and humane country where we listen to, talk and socialize with each other. I am pleased that the Minister for Finance seems to share that view; I am sure she does. However, I think it is problematic that the Minister for Finance does not want to review the rules that so clearly disadvantage certain types of non-profit organisations and that hit certain types of non-profit organisations so strangely when they also basically have the same purpose, both that we should move more and the greater democratic purpose. I see this as problematic, Madam President.
i-JVzWR7bQj43WWUDkRCRWWQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hampus Hagman, for the interpellation! The terms and conditions of our non-profit organisations are an important issue, and the government has supported non-profit activities in a wide range of ways in Sweden. These include increased additions to outdoor activities but also to the sports movement, where we made major contributions during the last parliamentary term. To practise in non-profit associations is something that is educational, schooling and fun and creates community and cohesion in society, just what makes Sweden as great a country as it is. Then I am not sure that an extended exception is the best way to support this activity. But there are many other ways in which I would like to support the business, which I also showed in practical policy during the last parliamentary term. Half the prizeba amount is per association, so judges who judge in very many different matches during a season can come up in fairly significant amounts for which they do not get any pension points. Of course, it can be problematic for some individuals. As I said, it is important that there are many of us who stand up for the non-profit sector, not least for outdoor life. I myself am a great outdoor enthusiast and spend all the free time either in the kayak, on the skates, on the skis or on the hiking trail. There is a lot of Swedish nature, so I hope that as many people as possible will take the opportunity to enjoy it. Besides, it's free.
