i-fa01ec25b62185a8-5	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson and Saila Quicklund have both asked questions about the tax on fuel and whether I believe that the tax burden on private cars is reasonable. Mrs Quicklund has also asked what alternatives to the car I think there are for the rural population. I would like to start by saying that I understand the concerns that many people have about high fuel prices. There are many areas in Sweden where you are dependent on the car. Price increases similar to those of spring, caused by rising oil prices and a weak crown, hit people in these areas hard. The dependence on oil in the transport sector means that we are constantly affected by developments in the Middle East and by the action of the OPEC countries. Recently we saw how a drone attack in Saudi Arabia had a major impact on the price of oil and thus also on Swedish fuel prices. While fuel prices are still at lower levels than before the summer, the sharp variations show that oil dependence is not sustainable, either economically or for the climate. We need to make greater use of biofuels and electricity to transport us. Just as we did with the oil used for heating our homes, we must phase out fossil fuels in the transport sector. By the end of 2020, the ambition of the reduction obligation will increase and the involvement of biofuels will increase. At the same time, the Government proposes in the budget proposal for 2020 that fuel taxes be reduced. As a result of the proposal, the higher Bnp indexation does not pass by 2020, but the tax at pump will only be adjusted according to the general price trend. The effect is therefore the same as when the temporary freezing of the bnp indexation was carried out with the Riksdag's budget decision in autumn 2018. I would also like to point out that the cars have become more fuel-efficient over the last 15 years and that today's used cars are drawing less and less fuel as the fleet is being changed. This means that it is not actually more expensive to drive a ten-year-old car to work today than it was 15 years ago. The Government's ambition is to accelerate progress towards more fuel-efficient cars. When I took office as Minister of Finance, we had a system where ordinary people were allowed to pay for new car purchases via the tax. The super environmental car premium, as it was called, has been replaced by a bonus – malus system. This means that instead it is those who can afford to buy a new high-carbon car that pays the bonus to those who buy a low-carbon car – not ordinary taxpayers. With the move to the new measurement method within the system, which takes place at the turn of 2020, environmental governance will be further strengthened. In this way we are moving towards a fleet of cars that emit less and are cheaper to drive.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-13	Madam President, I would like War is peace, freedom is slavery and a tax increase is a tax reduction. The first two we recognize from George Orwell, but the last one we ascribe to the Swedish Minister of Finance. For, yes, believe it or not: A tax increase on fuel from the turn of the year thus calls the Minister of Finance a tax reduction in his response. The fact that the country's finance minister is standing in the speaker's seat in the Swedish parliament and totally shamelessly claims that a tax increase is a tax reduction is both unreasonable and unworthy. She knows, of course, that there is no tax reduction on fuel in the Government's budget – the tax will increase from the turn of the year. It is possible, however, that the Minister for Finance's attempt to mislead about fuel taxes can be welcomed with a little goodwill. The fact that the Minister of Finance in Sweden's biggest tax-raiser party is obviously so ashamed of her tax increases that she calls them tax reductions instead is perhaps a sign of beginning insight. Madam President, I would like I put this interpellation on June 5. It has been a long time since then, and a lot has happened in Swedish politics and social debate on this issue during the summer. I note, however, that the protests against the high price of petrol seem to the Social Democrats to have passed without trace. For many of us, on the other hand, it has become another reminder of how many people in Sweden are completely dependent on the car to be able to work, study or simply live a normal life. The Minister of Finance's answer is revealing. She blames the high gas price on crown weakening and world market prices. These are, of course, things that affect the fuel price, but she forgets that taxes and VAT on the tax account for a significant part of the fuel price at the pump. This is the responsibility of the government and the Minister, and she cannot blame that on anyone else. In August, petrol cost nearly $1 (U.S.). Over 60% of the price is due to carbon dioxide tax, energy tax and VAT. Nearly $10 per litre of petrol consists of taxes. We can also note that motorism pays far more in taxes for fuels than is matched by the social costs of motorism. The government's own authority, Traffic Analysis, has shown the relationship between the taxes that motorism pays and the costs that motorism entails in terms of emissions, noise, accidents and road wear. Traffic analysis estimates that motorism today pays 123 percent of its costs. Thus, according to the government's own authority, motorism is a cash cow. Carism is overrated. It is serious in a country that is large and sparsely populated and where we politicians so often talk about the whole country living. There is a reality outside the big cities that too many left-wing politicians do not seem to see. In addition, over-taxation of transport poses problems for business to recruit staff. It also drives up unemployment and slows down growth. Madam President, I would like With this in mind, the Moderates have taken the decision to propose in our budget a tax reduction of a total of SEK 1 per litre on fuel. We Moderates show with our proposal that we take rural problems seriously. Fuel taxes hit people in rural areas extremely hard. Our tax reduction benefits everyone, not just those who live in some designated municipalities and who receive the government's modest tax cut of SEK 130 a month. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats and the Minister for Finance are completely empty-handed and have nothing at all to offer those living in rural areas in large parts of Sweden. Then there is nothing left but to try to mislead by calling a tax increase a tax reduction. But I'm gonna give the Minister of Finance another chance. What is the Minister of Finance's answer to all those rural people who do not get part of the government's tax cut but who suffer from increasing fuel taxes, who feel that their private driving is a cash cow for the government and who, at the same time, cannot afford to buy a new fuel-efficient car? Is it the Green Party box cycle that applies?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-24	Madam President, I would like I asked two questions related to the government's petrol tax increases, but unfortunately I did not get an answer to any of them. In the Minister for Finance's very general answer, the Minister stated that there are many areas in Sweden that depend on the car – it started to be very promising. It also showed some understanding by the Minister for Finance, but it was quite short-lived. The Minister then unilaterally points out that the cause of the petrol tax increase is rising oil prices, weak crown, developments in the Middle East, the action of the OPEC countries and the drone attack in Saudi Arabia. After all, more of these factors affect the price of petrol to some extent, but the Minister for Finance does not mention the government's own part of the increase, which is also effective. Madam President, I would like As you know, the Moderates lower the tax by 1 crown per litre under the same conditions. We've been listening to people. And all of Sweden will live. The Minister continues the answer by highlighting the need for people to buy new cars that are fuel-efficient, emit less and are also cheaper to drive. Let us note that a new car costs from 300 000 and up to 1 million – an astronomical sum for many people living in rural areas today. Electric cars are also not working, especially in Norrland where I live and work, because the cold is disturbing. You can't pull very heavy trailers with the electric cars either. I have grown up in a small municipality, Bräcke, and I also stay there a lot in my spare time. On the road there, people commute to work every day. But it is also about leisure activities, visits to health care, libraries and other types of activities. The road, one of many bad roads in the county, also causes the cars to break down every year. These are enormous costs – we are talking about thousands of crowns – going to repairs. Add to this the increase in the price of petrol from the government. These people are now to be punished even more severely by the government's tax increase – devastating to people living and working in rural areas. In a television interview, a woman from the municipality of Berg tells us that she commutes 100 miles a day to work, and the man commutes 50 miles. Their petrol costs are up to $1,000 a month. The neighbor family has moved from the locality because they are no longer able to take these costs. Travel deductions are indicated by the Minister of Finance as compensation to people. However, disabled people, students and pensioners are not allowed to take part in the deduction. So that is not a good argument. Madam President, I would like I would like the Minister to answer the questions I asked and to which I did not receive an answer. I repeat them:
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-33	Madam President, I would like Thank you for two very good interpellations by my colleagues Jan Ericson and Saila Quicklund! I would say that this is one of the most important issues that we have to decide on in Parliament right now. Do we want a living countryside and give people the opportunity to live in the whole of Sweden, or should we tax people out of the countryside? In my county of Gävleborg we have many talented entrepreneurs. We have a large manufacturing industry, not least in Hälsingland. I have made a lot of company visits to Gävleborg in the past year, so many that I think that some newspaper has even calculated that I have driven the most miles of all the MPs. I am proud of this, because going to visit entrepreneurs and ask them what is important and not just listen to it but influence our own parties to conduct a better policy is an important part of a Member of Parliament's mission. I will take an example, Madam President, from Ljusdal and a fantastically good company that has existed for a long time and is a subcontractor of a company in Mjölby. The company manufactures cabins. As everyone knows today, it is basically the case with logistics that a cabin made on a Monday in Ljusdal is transported by truck down to Mjölby the night between Monday and Tuesday and is in place in the factory on Tuesday morning. I talked to Sweden's Åkeri company this morning to get an idea about how far a truck goes and how many trucks you have in a truck. The Regional Manager of Sweden's Åkeri company told us that the average entrepreneur in Gävleborg has one or two cars. The cars roll about 20,000 miles per year and draw 4 litres per mile. This means that Moderates' tax reduction of SEK 1 per litre of diesel will significantly improve the competitiveness of a haulage company. A haulage company with two cars, which is the average size in Gävleborg, can thus improve competitiveness by approximately 120 000 SEK per year. Madam President, 120 000 SEK per year for the small farm in Ljusdal, which drives the fantastic cabins down to Mjölby! Many hauliers are currently driving on the HVO propellant. This means that, in principle, one is free of emissions. Many riders run with the Euro 6 engine. The Regional Manager of Sweden's Åkeri company probably exaggerated a little bit, but he said that basically a car with Euro 6 engine that drives through a city contributes to cleaning the air in the city. In fact, this is where the Minister for Finance and the government owes the answer. Do you safeguard the competitiveness of small companies throughout Sweden? Or do you want to tax the industry out of Gävleborg? Madam President, I would like If the costs are raised, which makes it difficult for a company to compete price-wise, the factory, in this case in Ljusdal, will of course not remain there, but will be moved to Mjölby. One must have a policy for the whole. We cannot tax our businesses out of the countryside. Add to that a poor road maintenance. I have previously debated with the Minister for Infrastructure that the roads in the country are not being snowed or grounded. It is not enough that you will have to pay dearly for the fuels; you will not even get the roads slid out.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-44	Madam President, I would like When the single assistant nurse outside Ramsele in Ångermanland is going to get to work at the hospital in Sollefteå, she takes the car. It's about 20 miles one way. She'll take the car, or she won't have time to take the kids to preschool and school. The same is true in the afternoon, when she has to take the car because it will otherwise be difficult to pick up the children before closing. She also needs to take the car when the children are going to her friends and to leisure activities, to buy food, to go to the pharmacy, and more. In short: She often needs the car, because otherwise she is unable to work or take care of her family. This is the reality of many rural areas in Sweden but also in many of our urban areas. It is difficult, if not impossible, to get by without a car in large parts of Sweden. Sweden, as everyone knows, is a sparsely populated l and with long distances. Madam President, I would like According to the Minister of Finance, the single mother outside Ramsele, and everyone else who needs the car every day, is supposed to be involved in paying for the emissions they cause. The climate is threatened if we do not increase petrol and diesel taxes in Sweden further and further, because nothing can be more important than saving the climate? What, then, are our emissions? How much does the single mother in Ramsele and all other Swedes affect the climate with her driving? Sweden, according to information I have produced from the Swedish Environmental Protection Association's website, stands for 1 per mille of greenhouse gas emissions and 2 per mille if we count on what our consumption causes in other countries. Of these emissions of 1 per million of the world's emissions, about one third comes from domestic transport, which includes private cars. Madam President, I would like One third of 1 per mil – and the Minister of Finance wants to continue to raise the price of petrol and diesel, even though we are at the top of the world in taxation, because otherwise the climate is threatened! I can't make this go together. But perhaps the Minister of Finance can explain to both me and everyone else how people who need the car will do to avoid that more and more of their income goes to paying high petrol and diesel bills. My second question is what alternative does the Minister of Finance think that people in rural areas should use instead of the car?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-51	Madam President, I would like I am a stockholmer and should not therefore be in the speaker's seat in this debate on the price of petrol. About us Stockholmers it is said that we all have such good access to infrastructure, to public transport and, not least, to all the cycle paths that are being built. It is true that some Stockholmers can handle themselves galantly without having to use the car very much or even have a car. But this is far from true for everyone. There are Stockholmers who find it difficult to make the everyday puzzle go together. Yesterday I met a number of newly immigrated women. Nevertheless, they spoke quite decent Swedish because they all sought their way into working life as quickly as possible – a working life that actually requires mobility. In fact, I met them to hand out diplomas because they had learned how to ride a bike — a fantastic achievement of them because they did not ride as a child, like many of us. They all testified to me how necessary it is for them to have a car to make the everyday puzzle go together. They need the car to drive to kindergarten and to get to work, often on the other side of town. Note well they have not only high petrol costs to fight but also congestion taxes and not least parking problems. Nowadays it is even difficult to park in the suburbs at no high cost because the city's environmental partners have made it cost extra money. And to the extent that new homes are built with garages, the garage is often far from the home itself. So there is an attitude towards motorism in Stockholm that makes it difficult for Stockholmers to make the everyday puzzle go together. There are so many different charges. I listened to these ladies with great pleasure and great interest, and they were amazed that they wanted to make it so difficult for them to enter the labour market and into society. Of course, it is not just the price of petrol it depends on, but the price of petrol is part of the great cost associated with their being able to enter the labour market and cope with their everyday puzzles. I therefore join with the interpellants and the other questioners and wonder why the Minister for Finance and the Government wants to make it particularly difficult for these young women and everyone else who wants to enter the Swedish labour market and need the car to make it easier. I want to go as far as claiming that the car is an integration tool.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-57	Madam President, I would like Let me say that since 2014, when this government took over, it has reduced the competitiveness of Swedish haulage industry by between SEK 50 000 and 80 000 per car with the tax increases that have been made on diesel. In addition, people's chances of remaining in rural areas have been reduced by about SEK 1 per mile further, which means up to SEK 3 000 per car per year. For a household with two three cars, this means a considerably higher cost of remaining in rural areas. Rural areas are dying, transport is becoming more expensive and more expensive and the competitiveness of our companies is deteriorating. We are a large and sparsely populated country that needs both the car and truck transport. Companies are moving from the countryside and Sweden, and we are allowed to keep empty industrial premises and increasing unemployment. All that remains with this anti-rural government is an increased wolf trunk in the countryside and more nature reserves. You're trying to turn the countryside into a museum, and I'm never going to accept that. Sweden must also review its bonus – the Malus system. Europe has higher taxes when it has passed 147 grams of CO2 per kilometre on light trucks, while Sweden has the same limit on light trucks as on ordinary passenger cars, which is totally unreasonable. It is unreasonably expensive in Sweden to buy and own a craft vehicle. This makes it expensive for our small companies, craftsmen, farmers, forest contractors and others, who are now receiving sky-high vehicle taxes and also increased fuel taxes. These cars are used to run businesses and create growth and jobs throughout the country. Not only are stones being driven around in these trucks, but there are many other crafts around the country. Madam President, I would like Sweden has among the highest petrol and diesel taxes in Europe. Sweden must have the same rules and the same taxes as the rest of Europe. Otherwise competition will be distorted and businesses and jobs will move abroad. Sweden's anti-car and rural government must be replaced. Does the government intend to review the bonus – the Malus system and correct the inaccuracies that cause craft vehicles and other things to get unreasonably high taxes? When you raise petrol and diesel taxes, is the intention that people in rural areas should stay at home instead of going to work? Madam President, I would like In 1996, car registration taxes were removed for people to change cars. It was good for the environment and road safety. Now the government is raising the vehicle tax on new cars, which means that people are forced to keep their older car because it becomes unprofitable to change. The government's tax policy keeps older cars around. Is it a new Cuba you are trying to create in Sweden where the vehicle fleet is just getting older and older because people can no longer afford to change cars? It's not good for the environment. Madam President, I would like Penalty taxes on new car purchases also reduce road safety. Anyone who cannot afford to switch to a new car because of new taxes will have a worse road safety situation. What measurable climate effects will your tax shock on the country's car owners and the countryside bring?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-67	Madam President, I would like This is nothing more than a question of freedom for those of us living in rural areas. It is also a clear sign of a very strange government policy. On the one hand they say that all of Sweden should live, on the other hand they raise the tax on people's everyday lives for those of us who live in rural areas. It is a surprising policy from a government that says that all people throughout Sweden should have the same opportunities. One takes the opportunity from families who want to let their children take part in leisure activities that they want to participate in but which they must refrain from because it is becoming more and more expensive to drive the children there. Sweden has an agriculture and forestry that gives Sweden vitality and growth power in many ways. I and many people with me have worked a long time to make sure that we have a food strategy worthy of the name. The green industries provide work, welfare and food. Our green industries are vital to open landscapes and diversity – and of course vital when the crisis comes. The Government's budget proposal provides increased fuel tax costs for Sweden's farmers and foresters with nearly 65 øre per litre from the turn of the year. The impact on the industry as a whole will be 500 million. How do Magdalena Andersson and the government believe that this increase in a food strategy for Sweden, a food strategy that seven parties supported, strengthens and increases Swedish primary production? And how does the Swedish agricultural and forestry industry strengthen its competitiveness?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-72	Madam President, I would like Now several of my colleagues in the moderate group have asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson : Why does the government target Sweden's drivers? I can be frank, Madam President, and say that I myself am from Stockholm and have the privilege of living in the inner city. Not only do you have access to bike paths, but there are walking paths and access to bus, commuter trains and metro. With public transport you can get to both air and rail, which connects all of Sweden. It is a privilege that I and a few more in Sweden have. The car is not just a tool for sparsely populated areas. You do not have to go to western Götaland, Åmål, Norrland, Småland or Skåne to realize that the car is necessary. You only have to take the commuter train to our outer suburbs or crane municipalities in Stockholm. Just go out to Kungsängen. Those who live out in Kungsängen and work in the city and who do not trust the commuter train take the car, and those who are parents of small children and pick up and leave at kindergarten or training have to take the car. Sometimes when you listen to the government, you might think that car ownership is an ingenious affair, but owning a car is a loss. Not only is it high fuel taxes, but the car loses its value and has high insurance costs, wear and tear, road tax and traffic tax. It's a total loss deal. I can take my mother as an example. She's a low-paid airport controller at Arlanda. When she starts working her shift at 3:00 in the morning, there is no public transport going out to Arlanda. It'll be either a taxi or a car. This means that there are people here in Sweden who are forced to take the car to go to work, to earn their basic living and to afford to pay their rent. This shows that political fundamentals no longer work in Sweden. Ordinary people say they have to be able to refuel the car in order to get to work, which finances our common welfare. If it is something a classic social democrat should understand, Madam President, it is that the car is a means of getting to work to fund our common welfare – care, school and care – and care for our elderly. I can promise that most people would have received more money in their wallet if they had abstained from the car, but it is absolutely crucial for them to be able to get to work, pay their bills and at best perhaps save a small penny for the next holiday trip or for their children. My question is: How can the Minister of Finance – a classic Social Democrat who historically defends the interests of the workers – direct the point towards those who need the car in order to get to work and who have built Sweden? Why does the government refuse to lower taxes for ordinary people? Instead, the point is directed at our citizens, who get increased taxes. My question to the Minister for Finance is: why does the Minister of Finance not give priority to hardworking, ordinary people? Why is the cape aimed at those who have the least margins in their wallets?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-79	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to listen to the whole bunch of moderate members of parliament, who have suddenly woken up and realised that we have had an indexation of the price of petrol since 1990. It is a price indexation that has existed for a long time. The Moderates had a price indexation in their previous budget exercise. This year it is 15 cents, and when the Moderates presented their budget exercise barely a year ago it was 17 cents. The Moderates had that in their budget bill. For eight years with the alliance government, this price indexation was part of the budget bill each year. Now Arin Karapet says that I point the point at ordinary people by keeping the price indexing in place. Then the question is why, in that case, during eight years in the alliance government and in last year's budget motion, the Moderates pointed the point at ordinary people. Saila Quicklund says it's a criminal charge. The question must then be why Saila Quicklund voted in favour of the greater penalty taxation for this year and why the Moderates proposed a penalty tax every year during the eight years of the alliance government. Some order may be in an opposition party as well. This also applies to Jan Ericson's argument as to whether it is a tax increase or a tax reduction. There are at least two taxes that have an indexation in the way petrol has, at the bottom of the legislation. It is also the breakpoint for state defense taxes. Both have a kpi indexation and a bnp indexation that lies at the bottom of the legislation. If you change the Bnp adjustment, does this mean that you raise or lower the tax? There were many moderate members of parliament – I would guess Jan Ericson was one of them – who accused me during the last term of office of raising taxes when we changed the bnp indexation in the breakpoint. Some sort of inherent logic should even moderates have in their reasoning. They meant and said four five years ago that the government raised taxes when we stopped the bnp adjustment at the breakpoint. Then, with some sort of logical consequence, one must also say that the stopped bnp adjustment in petrol is a tax reduction. Everything else violates all logic among themselves. This should also be the responsibility of an opposition party. Sten Bergheden says that no one can afford to switch to a new car after the bonus – the malus adjustment made now. Then I just want to remind Sten Bergheden and the listeners that the cars affected by the elevated malus in bonus – the malus system are cars that cost about half a million crowns and upwards. Of course, anyone who chooses such a car has the opportunity to choose a car that emits less. Then you don't have to pay the malus. You can even choose a charging hybrid, perhaps a Swedish charging hybrid from Volvo. On the contrary, you get a bonus. It is important that the whole country can live and grow. In many parts of the country they are completely dependent on the car, as I told Saila Quicklund in my first answer. The car is dependent on it, so it is important that there is maintenance of roads and railways. This is why we have had an investment in public transport in sparsely populated areas. I am aware that much of the country is dependent on the car. That is one of the reasons why we have made a special targeted tax reduction for the people who live in the parts of the country where you are most dependent on the car.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-85	Madam President, I would like No, the Minister for Finance, if you raise the tax on people at the turn of the year, it is not a tax reduction. It doesn't matter how the Minister of Finance argues – increased tax is increased tax. If you get a higher tax rate at the turn of the year and pay more for petrol due to increased tax, it is not a tax reduction. The reason the Moderates have suddenly woken up, as the Minister of Finance says, is not so strange. The gas price has increased dramatically since we left government power in 2014, and responsible politicians must act when we see the effects. We're acting. We'll lower the treasure by a crown at the turn of the year. Then it can be added that during the alliance years we reduced the tax on wage income dramatically. This partly compensated for an increase in the price of petrol. Today, the government is not doing this. It does not reduce the tax on employees by a single penny at the turn of the year if we do not happen to earn as much as we Members of Parliament. We Moderates have a strong priority in government spending. For example, we are streamlining and closing down authorities, we are adjusting aid to the UN's recommended objectives and we are abolishing pointless building subsidies, ineffective climate policy, pointless labour market policies, free years, family week and electric bicycle premiums. And we are tightening up migration and integration policies. Then you can afford both to reduce taxes and to invest in welfare, the police and the municipalities. If you take responsibility, you can afford it. In addition to the strange statement made by the Minister of Finance in her speech that a tax increase is a tax reduction, I can see that the Minister of Finance is a little ragged against the rural population. There is talk of investing in new environmentally friendly vehicles. But it is actually that not everyone has a private economy that makes you close to being able to afford to buy a brand new car and thus get part of this bonus. For most people it's about switching to a slightly newer car. This is much more possible if the petrol tax is not too high. I think the Minister of Finance has a little lost touch with reality when she thinks that everyone can afford to buy a new expensive electric car. Unfortunately, the government's policy is not working in any area today. The Minister of Finance talks a lot about emissions. But despite the government's labour market policies, unemployment is rising and the employment rate is falling. Despite the government's criminal policy, shootings, murders and insecurity are increasing. Despite the government's migration policy, municipalities are on their knees weighted by non-functioning integration. Despite the government's school policy, school results are falling. Despite the government's health policy, care queues are increasing. Despite the government's housing policy, housing shortages are increasing. And despite the government's climate policy and constant tax increases on fuels, emissions are increasing. During the Alliance's time, we had lower petrol taxes than today. Yet emissions were reduced. With a little lower petrol tax, more low-income people in rural areas might be able to afford to switch to a slightly newer, more fuel-efficient and environmentally friendly car. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the world of finance ministers. The Minister for Finance also talks a lot about rural investment. I can inform the Minister for Finance that in the eight municipalities of my home country, a number of which are rural and partly sparsely populated municipalities, there is not a single person who gets any benefit from your rural effort because we are not in the geographical area. It won't be a penny in reduced taxes. You only get increased gas taxes and a tax on plastic bags.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-92	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance focuses very much on the period of alliance and the past. Let us focus on the present and the fact that it will be more expensive to refuel for the common people and for businesses. The reduction in petrol tax by 1 crown liter by Moderates is an important message for all who depend on the car and who need jobs and family life. The tax reduction also makes it profitable to work and improve conditions in rural areas. It also strengthens the conditions for growth and holds the country together, which is extremely central and important. I'm really proud that the Moderates see the whole of Sweden and not just the cities. For the Moderates it is important that the whole of Sweden should live. Those aren't empty words. There is a content based on the reality that people are experiencing and to which we have listened. People's voices should be respected and listened to. The 2.0 gas insurgency has brought together over 630 000 members who also continue to mobilise very quickly against the high fuel prices. I received their signatures in May when they courted in Coins Square. Madam President, I would like For this reason, I was extremely surprised by what the Minister for Finance said during a debate in the Chamber during the spring with a fellow Member of Parliament to me. The Minister of Finance expressed there and then something that can be interpreted as something derogatory about the Bensin uprising when she argued: in fact, there are not many of them. They have many accounts, but if you look at their demonstrations, they're actually not that many. Madam President, I would like I'm amazed. There are 630 000 people from all over the country, and the Finance Minister claims that they are not very many based on the number of participants in the demonstrations. Madam President, I would like Where are these people? Why don't they go to the courtship and demonstrations? First of all, they're working. As a matter of fact, unemployment has increased significantly in a boom and with government policy. But people are working, and they can't go 50, 80 or 900 miles to participate in a demonstration at Mint Square. Secondly, it costs. The government's policy has also increased the price of petrol. The government has seen to that. That is also the reason for today's interpellation debate. Of course, people from Sveg, Bodsjö, Flatnor, Gäddede and several localities would like to be here. But I've indicated why they're not. Nevertheless, they show in other ways their commitment and their will. Today there are new channels where you can express yourself. The Facebook page for the petrol uprising 2.0 with 630 000 members is a good message about that. We want people to get involved in matters. That's how a democracy works; and that's praiseworthy. Then it feels directly unworthy when someone wants to ralli around the great commitment of the petrol uprising. They're supposed to be respected. I shall now turn to the questions to which I have still not been given an answer. What is the view of the Minister for Finance that there are alternatives for the significant part of Sweden's population living in rural areas? And why does the government repeatedly tax people living in rural areas?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-101	Madam President, I would like Unemployment is increasing, the business environment is deteriorating and, at best, the employment rate is unchanged at the moment. The government itself says that we are about to enter a recession. The least you can ask, Madam President, is that we have a government that sees and takes responsibility for the whole of Sweden – who takes responsibility for employment throughout Sweden and who takes responsibility for entrepreneurship throughout Sweden. We Moderates want to reduce the petrol and diesel tax by SEK 1 per litre. Jan Ericson well told us where we're taking the money to finance this. The difference for a haulage company is 80 000 SEK per year per car. That means, Madam President, that when petrol and diesel prices have risen sharply, for the reason stated by the Minister for Finance, we want to compensate for this by reducing diesel tax. Madam President, I would like This is how we really take responsibility for competitiveness. This is how you really take responsibility for there to be jobs and small businesses throughout Sweden. I want there to continue to be a manufacturing industry in Ljusdal, a manufacturing industry that is world-leading in some areas and a manufacturing industry that manufactures its products in Ljusdal to be shipped worldwide. Then you have to be able to be competitive. The difference is therefore 80 000 SEK per car and year for a haulage company. There is a significant difference in competitiveness. The Minister for Finance must therefore answer the question: Does this government safeguard competitiveness? Does this government safeguard entrepreneurship throughout the country? Does this government ensure that there are opportunities for manufacturing companies throughout Sweden?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-105	Madam President, I would like This is an interesting debate to listen to. Since this is my last speech, I would, of course, like to receive an answer to the question of which I am most interested, namely what alternatives to the car the Minister of Finance thinks exist for the people living in rural areas. If I am to be very positive in my interpretation, I can suggest that the Minister for Finance believes that they can buy a new car that uses less fuel. I will unseemly think of what the French queen said before the revolution, Marie Antoinette, when people whined over high bread prices. She said they could eat pastries instead. This will be something similar. Is it not better that the Minister of Finance actually admits that taxes on petrol and diesel are not there for us to have a better environment? Instead, it is a question of funding free and family weeks, i.e. measures that mean fewer people working and less tax revenue – and that is what everyone who needs the car in their everyday lives pays for.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-108	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, I'm from Stockholm. By definition, I should perhaps not be here, because everyone in Stockholm is supposed to have good access to public communications. We also heard earlier in the speaker's chair from a local residents in the inner city who confirmed this for themselves. I myself come from one of the extremities, Farsta. It can be said that Farsta is one of the neighbourhoods that have far too few jobs in the neighbourhood – there should be many more jobs, so that people did not have to travel on long distances. Instead, we have the situation that many people have to travel and make ends meet. They have not only a high price for petrol but also congestion taxes, difficult parking conditions, general congestion and so on. But many of them are still forced to take the car. I did not hear the Minister of Finance say a single word about what I said in my last speech about the car as an integral part of people's everyday lives. The other day I met a number of young immigrant women who, in order to be able to have a job and to get the everyday puzzle to go together, had to have a car and drive in the difficult conditions of living in Stockholm, including the costs associated with it. All of these would be grateful for a reduction in the price of petrol by one crown, and it would ultimately actually be beneficial for integration. I therefore miss the Minister for Finance's comments on this and the need for a sensible petrol price.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-112	Madam President, I would like The debate has not answered the questions I asked. However, I note that the Minister therefore considers it acceptable that competitiveness here in Sweden has deteriorated by between SEK 50 000 and 80 000 per truck during her early government year. This means that Sweden's competitiveness will deteriorate even further as the world enters a recession. We are talking about a tax cut to strengthen competitiveness and improve for the road haulage community and for people who need cars and trucks, while you are talking about continuing to raise taxes for the same, Magdalena Andersson. This is serious, and it will hit the countryside hard. The combination of high world market prices and Europe's highest tax makes the situation in this country untenable with regard to our petrol and diesel taxes. Companies, car owners and others are protesting today, and the remarkable thing is that the government is so tone-deaf for the mulch that is heard throughout the country and in the countryside. The only advice I could discern from the Minister's reply, Madam President, is that those craftsmen and others who need to buy a new car in order to continue their business are allowed to buy a smaller and more fuel-efficient car. That is an extremely bad way of talking about the people who actually need these cars to do their job. You are making them less competitive in their daily work, Magdalena Andersson. Madam President, I would like The Minister is apparently also satisfied with the bonus – the Malus system we have, where craftsmen in Sweden will pay more than Europe's craftsmen. You are pleased that the truckers will pay 50 000 – 80 000 more per truck, and you are pleased that motorists in Sweden will pay 2 000 – 3 000 SEK more per car. The only thing this government invests in and protects in rural areas is an increased wolf trunk and more reserves. This is not how we can do it, Madam President.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-116	Madam President, I would like The minister raises the tone of an octane here in the speaker's seat. Price indexation is something that we in this House have the power to change, but instead the government is pushing tax proposals that lead to further split and worse growth. Two municipalities, Bengtsfors in Dalsland and Munkedal in Bohuslän, are neighbours. They have similar conditions but are valued quite differently in the government budget, where one gets tax reductions and one gets without. Both have a population that needs the car in everyday life, but there the tax increase is equal. How does this make Sweden stick together? How does it make Sweden stick together that the city is placed against land and the car – mobility – becomes a class issue? I did not receive an answer from the Minister for Finance on how green industries can gain competitiveness and growth power. Our green industries are being scrounged with 500 million when, instead, we could provide better conditions for the implementation of our food strategy. This is happening in a situation that is quite worrying. The government's target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate has been completely flawed. Our collapse in the ranking is a fact, but this government seems to be pursuing a policy that is directly destructive to the green industries. This will not help our unemployment figures – quite the contrary. Instead, the government needs to equip Sweden for the recession that is coming. Sweden needs a rural-loving policy, and this government cannot deliver.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-120	Madam President, I would like It has been claimed several times that I have not answered the question of what alternatives some people have. I already replied in the interpellation answer that for many people in Sweden there is no alternative to the car. In large parts of the country you are completely dependent on the car. I said that in my first post, and I said that in my second post, but now there are still allegations that I have not answered the question. I have answered the question: For many people there is no alternative to the car. I'm well aware of that. You need the car to get around – to get to work and to drive the children to practice. Some Moderates have also asked me about a car in Stockholm. Here in Stockholm there are often alternatives, but public transport is not always expanded in the way it could be. There are also problems with parking spaces in Stockholm. But perhaps the Moderates would above all ask these questions to the Moderates who rule in the Stockholm region and in the City of Stockholm. There have been discussions where the Moderates in the City of Stockholm have probably reduced the possibilities for parking in the City of Stockholm. It is the Moderates in the region who control public transport, and there are of course good opportunities to ensure internally in the Moderate Party that more people in Stockholm have an alternative to the car. It's probably a good opportunity. Another point that has come up in the debate is the following: I replied to Sten Bergheden that people who buy a new car of course have the opportunity to choose a car that does not emit as much and thus avoid Malus. Jan Ericson then suddenly claims that I say that everyone can buy a new car. That's not what I said. To say that is to twist my answer in a way that makes this kind of debate – and all other political debates – very difficult, Jan Ericson. I replied that whoever buys a new car for half a million, which was what Sten Bergheden talked about, can choose to buy a car that does not let out and thus avoid malus. I didn't say that everyone has the opportunity to buy a new car, and Jan Ericson knows that. He should not stand in the speaker's seat and claim such a thing. Jan Ericson should also think about when he talks about tax cuts and when he talks about tax increases. When I had debates with moderate MPs four five years ago, when the effect of the change in the breakpoint we made was that people had a tax cut at the turn of the year, Moderates called it a tax increase. In fact, we had removed an indexation that would have meant an even greater tax reduction. Then it was good to call a tax cut a tax increase. I'm not saying that logic is right or wrong. I'm just saying that if the Moderates keep their logic, that's what the government does to be seen as a tax cut. I don't put any value into it if you call it one or the other. My only demand is that the Moderates have a mutual logic in how they argue. It is the House and I deserve it. The question is what is best for rural areas in the long run. Sweden is a sparsely populated country. We will also need the car in the future. We depend on it. The best thing is that we reposition our fleet of vehicles in the same way we did with the oil boilers. That is precisely what the government's policy is aimed at. That's why we have a bonus – Malus system, for new cars to be more environmentally friendly. This means that the used cars will also be more environmentally friendly. That is why we are also increasing the reduction obligation, so that more of what we are driving on is Swedish produced biofuels and so that in the future we will not have to be equally dependent on what happens in the Middle East when it comes to our ability to drive the car we all know we are dependent on.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-127	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance finally admits that for many there is no alternative to the car. It is only a pity that she does not draw any conclusions from this and realises the need to make it realistic for people to continue driving in rural areas and, for those who need it, in metropolitan areas. As usual, the Minister of Finance is trying to blame everything, talk the problems away and confuse in the debate. But we're not falling for this. If the tax increases by 15 cents at the pump when buying petrol, you get higher tax. If, instead, you get 1 crown less tax, it is a tax reduction. Either you care about the business environment and the countryside, or you don't. It's no stranger than that. I am a little upset when the Minister for Finance and, above all, her party and party friends ralli a little bit over the 630 000 people in the petrol rebellion. I often hear claims that it is only urban residents who drive around in suvars and that they are the ones who get reduced taxes with Moderate politics. It is almost an insult to everyone who depends on the car, whether you live in Storstockholm or Svenljunga. There are not 630 000 big city dwellers who are driving around in suvars, and they are not the ones who have signed up to the petrol rebellion. Many people who live in the country and in the city need the car. We have noted this in the debate. We have also noted that the Swedish Transport Analysis Agency states that motorism is overtaxed. We note that the Moderates take this seriously and therefore reduce the fuel tax by 1 krona. We can also say that the government is doing nothing. I therefore assume that this debate is closed for this time.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-132	Madam President and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Moderates share every ambition to reduce emissions and dependence on fossil fuels. It's obvious. But the whole price of the necessary change that we are facing cannot be spent on those living in rural areas who depend on the car and who have no alternatives either. Instead of penalising the countryside for Sweden's vast distances, climate work needs to focus on the real villain: coal power plants across Europe and the world. They are now growing on an increasingly rapid scale. We must have a transition that the whole of Sweden can participate in. It should not just be about travelling more public transport in the big cities or rich people buying electric cars. You should be able to live in the whole of Sweden, not just in the metropolitan regions. Car is not something luxurious but a requirement for the whole of Sweden to be able to live and function, so that you can get to work and practice or pick up at preschool. Companies need to be able to deliver products and services. This is also where the jobs are, which is important. Finally, I would like to say that the green transition needs a popular basis in order to be credible and respected. People's voices from the real reality out there should also be taken into account and respected. With those words, I would like to round up this important debate for which I thank both the President and the Minister for Finance.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-138	Madam President, I would like Sweden has managed to change our heating of our houses, not thanks to moderate politics but thanks to politics driven by a Social Democratic-led government. We switched our oil boilers to more environmentally friendly alternatives such as air heat pumps, geothermal heat, pellet burners and other. Of course, we'll do the same with the car. That's why the government has an active policy. There will be more Swedish biofuels in the idea, and we have clear support for those who buy an environmentally friendly car so that there will be more environmentally friendly cars on the secondary market. This gives everyone who drives a car greater opportunities to use the car in their daily lives. Of course, more policy is also needed for the whole country to live and grow. We need to ensure that road and rail maintenance is improved. The government has presented the greatest increase ever in road and rail maintenance. There will also be additional money in this budget. We spend additional resources building broadband across the country. We continue to provide support for commercial services, which is essential for running businesses and living in the country. We're increasing government service. We're creating a learning center. And we have the tax reduction. In addition, we re-establish the cost compensation system, which supports municipalities so that they can have good service throughout the country. It is in addition to the 35 billion in increased resources for municipalities and county councils that the government contributed during the last term of office. In addition, we are working on the food strategy, and we are moving out authorities. It is a broad policy for the whole country to live. It is important that we can debate it in Parliament. However, I am a little concerned about some of the things that have been said in the debate today. They say that Sweden becomes a new Cuba, they complain about the Environmental Party in the council and they liken me to other opponents. I do not think that the Swedish people or those living in the countryside mean that.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-143	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me what I and the government intend to do to deal with the negative consequences of last June's Supreme Administrative Court ruling on VAT on the hiring of health workers. In that judgment, the Supreme Administrative Court interpreted the VAT Code's rules in the light of EU law and concluded that temporary work agency workers should not be exempt from VAT. The Tax Agency then issued a position on the hiring of personnel in the health care sector, where the authority talks about how to interpret the judgment. The position has been applied since 1 July by the Swedish Tax Agency. The VAT refund system in exempt activities, such as health care, provides standard compensation to the county councils for the costs of VAT paid by private operators. In 2019, the Swedish Parliament decided on an announcement that the Government will urgently carry out an impact assessment of the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation that consultancy solutions in healthcare are subject to VAT and, if necessary, return with a proposal that neutralizes the consequences for healthcare providers and patients as soon as possible. The matter of Parliament's announcement is now being prepared in the Government Office. In the budget bill, the Government has proposed a temporary state grant to the county councils in order for them to be able to reimburse the actors concerned by VAT costs for health workers. The investment amounts to SEK 210 million per year over a three-year period and enables the county councils to make it easier for private health care providers to adopt the new legal situation. The budget also announces that the Government will urgently set up an investigation to review whether EU law is in place to introduce an alternative regime to neutralise the current impact on stakeholders. Where they exist, proposals shall be made.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-146	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In a recent judgment, the Supreme Administrative Court has held that the hiring of medical personnel, such as doctors and nurses, is subject to VAT if the landlord is not at the same time a health care establishment with its own patients, record keeping, etc. This VAT will in most cases be a cost to the purchaser of the services. Normally, it is a VAT-free health care company which therefore has no right to deduct VAT in whole or in part. Medical services in Sweden are currently exempt from VAT, whereas the hiring of personnel is generally taxable turnover. On the basis of the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, including an advance ruling, the Tax Court and the Supreme Administrative Court have now confirmed that the hiring of medical personnel is also to be regarded as a taxable turnover. This is something that the Swedish Tax Agency has been applying since 1 July this year. This means that companies that hire staff have to start paying VAT on their turnover, even if they are services that are actually healthcare services. Exemptions apply if the company has more than 75% of its own health services, i.e. they are aimed directly at a patient. The Tax Agency's amended application means that the letting of health workers is considered to be VAT-taxable lettings rather than as previously exempt from VAT tax except medical care. In principle, this means that all private activities, except those carried out by self-receipt, are now subject to VAT. Madam President, I would like The consequences are great for all actors throughout the care chain, with a clear risk of longer queues and waiting times and a further increase in staff shortages. In addition, the change that has now been implemented is unknown to most people involved, and definitely to the general public. The ruling, and not least the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation of it, turns an established approach to the purchase of healthcare services into an established one, since private carers cannot compensate for the significant increase in VAT costs. It is likely that several care providers and several care providers will be allowed to close down their activities. Madam President, I would like The Minister said in his reply that the government is now looking over and investigating the matter. Yes, it is being investigated, and it is on the initiative of the Riksdag. That's good, but it's a shame it's going to be necessary. The risk is that what comes out of this preparation will be a patching and repairing rather than what is needed, namely a new legislation in this area. New legislation is what is needed, and it is possible. I would like to put a couple of questions to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. During the time when this is going on, it would be interesting to know what the Minister and the Government want on the matter. Does the government have any idea how it wants things to work in the future? Is it the Minister's ambition to return the order to what it was like before the decision of the Tax Agency?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-154	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance! I would like to hear why the Minister for Finance and the government want to knock the bones off a whole industry. It is an industry that has increased the quality of care, created competition and largely helped the countryside to have doctors. It is difficult to recruit doctors in the countryside, and there the rent doctors are actually the rescue to keep small medical stations that can help the population. In rural areas there are many old people who need more health care than perhaps those of middle age. I have another question for the Minister for Finance, Madam President. Why can you not implement VAT in a fair way through good order if you want VAT on these services? If you think that the reasons for it are strong enough, you should have a good implementation by making a proposal that then goes on to the Law Council. In this way, these companies will be subject to VAT and not just to VAT on the income they already have. What is the reason for this? Is the reason, Madam President, for wanting to kill these small health care companies and private health care companies in Sweden?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-156	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament has asked the Government to carry out an impact assessment of the effects of healthcare VAT as soon as possible. I would like the Minister of Finance to take a closer look at the study carried out by the health business operators. According to the legislation, health care must be free of VAT, regardless of direction. The Swedish Tax Agency's legal interpretation seriously distorts the conditions between private and public health care providers. Private care providers work side by side with public health care providers who receive VAT compensation from the state and are therefore not so strongly affected by changes in VAT rules. However, private carers have to bear the full VAT cost because they do not have the right to deduct. If I were allowed to speculate freely, I could conspiratorically look at this and believe that when Reepalus' investigation fell, then there was not enough support for it faced with unfair tax rules such as these instead of making it difficult for private carers. I want to tell you what the reality is. If we were to remove private carers today, the care in Sweden would not be able to cope. In Västra Götaland, 18 out of 49 health care companies in a survey report that they lose critical competence in their operations due to the healthcare VAT. I myself have a doctor who now moves to Norway. It is not far from where I live, but for me it will be crucial when I have to start over with my medical history with another doctor. This is due to the health care allowance. 19 out of 49 healthcare companies in Västra Götaland will have to reduce the scope of their operations directly or in the long term. This is happening in Västra Götaland, which has a fairly large medical shortage and a very large geography. It is difficult there to get treatment at the right time. With this, it will be even more difficult, and it is the rural areas that will once again have to pay. Seven large care providers in Västra Götaland are considering completely phasing out their operations as a consequence of the healthcare VAT. How can the government proceed with this proposal when you understand, if you read the survey, and see what it looks like out in Sweden, that is, that healthcare companies will close down? There is not enough competence to employ in the public sector if these healthcare companies are to be closed down. 9 out of 49 healthcare companies are stepping down or closing partnerships with other healthcare providers. This is happening at a time when there are more and more multi-diseases that need to be collaborated on across healthcare boundaries between the public and private sectors. Here the government is making things extremely difficult for the private sector. It is the rural people who will again have to pay. I would like to hear the solution of the Minister for Finance.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-164	Madam President, I would like This is my fifth year as Minister of Finance, but what has just happened in the speaker's seat here is something I have never experienced and something that has to be said to be extremely spectacular. I refer to what Ann-Sofie Alm says. After all, the government has not changed any legislation at all, but this is a piece of legislation that has an EU directive at its core. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm believes that new rules are now being introduced because the Reepalu investigation fell. But this is a verdict from the Supreme Administrative Court. Does the MP mean that the Supreme Administrative Court interprets the legislation on the basis of decisions taken by the Riksdag regarding the Reepalus investigation? Is she saying that the Supreme Administrative Court runs its own policy? That is an extremely serious accusation. I hope Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm really straightens out this misunderstanding. I'm surprised. I hope that the Member of Parliament will clarify this and that she will not accuse the Supreme Administrative Court of pursuing politics. I am also a little surprised when Kjell Jansson wonders why the government wants to put away the legs for the companies. I would like to point out once again that this is a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court. Does Kjell Jansson mean that the Supreme Administrative Court wants to knock away the legs for companies? It's amazing to listen to the Moderates. You get a little scared, I have to say. What has happened is that the Supreme Administrative Court has interpreted EU rules – a VAT directive. What compensation private carers then receive is something that is regulated between county councils and private carers. It is free for the county councils to write any agreements they want. If Västra Götaland has such agreements that private carers no longer want to remain there, there are all possibilities for the Västra Götaland region to sign new agreements. It's the Moderates who run it. If AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has problems with the private health care companies at home in Västra Götaland, she can turn to the Moderates in Västra Götaland, who also now receives their share of the 210 million SEK in order to be able to rewrite the agreements. However, it is not the government that governs what compensation the private health care providers receive from the county councils, but it is governed by agreements with the county councils. What is the government doing at this point? The standard, which is a compensation to the county councils for these agreements, is, according to evaluation, too high. The assessment between the thumb and the index finger is that the flat-rate compensation for this change is too high in the county councils. There is an opportunity to compensate. In addition, we are investing SEK 210 million to enable the county councils to rewrite the agreements. The impact assessment commissioned by Parliament will of course be carried out. In addition to the impact assessment, the government will set up an investigation to see if there are EU law conditions to introduce an alternative regime. My assessment is that the government is doing everything possible to do in this situation and that does not mean that we are in any way trying to govern the courts' judgment in Sweden. That is something I do not want to do, because I think that Sweden should continue to be a rule of law.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-171	Madam President, I would like The levying of tax requires aid in law. The Swedish legislators have previously stated that all stages of health care should be exempt from VAT. If the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation is now going to be permanent, there is a practice that means that the legislation must also be amended. The new interpretation has created unreasonable distortions of the conditions between private health care providers and public service activities, when county councils and municipalities receive full VAT compensation from the state, while private operators have to bear the full VAT cost. With the help of Deloitte, the organisation Health Care Professionals has produced a legislative proposal that clarifies that all healthcare provided by licensed healthcare professionals should be VAT-free, regardless of whether the licensed professional operates his own company or is employed and with whom he is employed. This would remove the problems created by healthcare VAT. In order to ensure that the proposal is compatible with EU law, Pernilla Rendahl, associate professor in financial law at the Gothenburg School of Economics, has reviewed the bill. Her assessment is that there are no obstacles to the implementation of the proposal in EU law. Madam President, I would like Finland makes a completely different interpretation. In January 2018, the Supreme Administrative Court of Finland issued its opinion. The VAT exemption for health services was then extended. In Finland, the resale of health services is and remains VAT-free. Within the EU, equal rules apply. This does not go together with the new practice that has existed in Sweden for a short time. Madam President, I would like It's not just the principles that aren't really connected. This has effects in many places. For 46 years, the non-profit Psoriasis Association in Stockholm County has been running non-profit care in outpatient facilities, now too many skin-related diagnoses. The association operates highly qualified, non-profit-making care and receives only compensation for completed care measures. This association is now faced with new VAT rules, in which the hiring of medical personnel is to be regarded as taxable turnover. Many doctors are concerned about the effects. In fact, there are many doctors who plan to either move to another country and work in Norway, for example, or close down their activities. Circumstances have become too difficult. This also poses problems for Västra Götaland. It's not just about making new deals. This is a principle that prevails, and that principle can only be changed by new legislation. The questions I put to the Minister for Finance were somewhat obscured by comments to my fellow debaters. My questions are: What does the government want? Does the government want to change this order? I would be very happy if I had a positive answer to that question. Is it that the government has an idea about this? It is permitted to have an opinion even if an investigation is ongoing. Lawyers argue that this is possible, and Finland makes a different interpretation. There are things in Swedish health care that we have a greater need to take hold of and get things straight than to keep on discussing VAT rules. Madam President, I would like What does the Minister do if there are negative effects? I don't want to involve Reepalu or anything like that – I think it can be buried and end up in Parliament's history book. But what does the Minister do if there are negative effects? So we'll go back to the order?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-179	Madam President, I would like We are aware of the Supreme Administrative Court's decision. Everyone is aware of that decision. But that does not cause the government not to implement the VAT in good order, does it? There is also a different interpretation compared to Finland, and we are in fact both in the EU. I still want answers to why the Minister of Finance does not intend to implement VAT in health care, which I think there are strong reasons to do, because the Court of Justice has done this interpretation. In addition, costs are now being moved right down to the regions, while the government is receiving revenue, which is perhaps not entirely good. There is also something that chafes. The flat-rate allowance is too high, says the Minister of Finance. On what grounds? I want answers to that.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-183	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I am upset in the speaker's chair because I understand what this will mean if it is implemented. I would very much like the government to carry out this impact assessment and really take on board what will happen if this goes through. In the January agreement between the government, C and L, parties state that competition neutrality should exist between public and independent healthcare providers in terms of financial conditions. The fact that the system of VAT compensation to regions and municipalities means treating them differently in terms of VAT, I think that we should attach a great deal of importance to it. Some regions – not all – provide flat-rate VAT payments to private carers. However, in an impact assessment it is important to take into account that the flat-rate remuneration does not reflect the actual VAT costs of the company. When it is understood that the VAT compensation they receive from the region does not cover the new VAT costs when the health allowance is introduced, it is also understood that it will be incredibly difficult to continue to carry out the care provided. I would very much like to see the government's impact assessment urgently before more private healthcare entrepreneurs close down.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-187	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg asked me what the government wanted, and I replied to that in my first speech. We will review the European legal framework for having an alternative regime, and if there is one, a proposal will be made. It is very clear what the government wants. If there is a possibility of amending legislation, we will change the legislation. It remains to be seen whether there is something that we have not discovered yet that it would be possible to do. What is important for everyone in this House to understand is that this is something that is not regulated between the state and private health providers, but between county councils and private health providers. What compensation private carers receive for their services is something that is regulated between them and the county councils. We now provide the county councils with additional resources to enable them to sign new agreements with the private health care providers in order for them to continue to operate on good terms. In addition to the extra money, the Government provides a flat-rate compensation to the county councils in order for them to be able to sign agreements with the private health care providers. The stencil has an investigation come to it is too high, which reasonably enables the county councils to write good agreements for the private care providers. The answer to what will happen to private carers in the future is whether we find any means of amending the legislation. But even if we do not find an opportunity to do this legislation, there is every opportunity in the world for county councils or regions to sign agreements with private carers so that they have a good chance of operating. Take, for example, the psoriasis clinic mentioned by Mr Rothenberg. It has an agreement with Stockholm County Council. Stockholm County Council is governed by Moderates. If Hans Rothenberg is concerned about the future of that clinic, he will of course talk to the Moderates in the county council. There is also an opportunity for all private carers to completely get away from this. It is no longer to have hired staff, but instead to employ staff. It is not always possible to employ staff full-time or half-time. But it is perfectly possible under Swedish legislation to employ staff for hours. All private care providers who think that VAT is a problem with hired staff: Hire it per hour and the whole problem is over!
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-193	Madam President, I would like The right to full-time is a Social Democratic expression of honour. Now the Minister for Finance proposes to hire health professionals for hours: Say no more! VAT is not a history that is an agreement between county councils and health care providers. VAT is something that the government collects. VAT is something determined by the government and parliament. VAT decisions are a political decision that cannot and should not be delegated to other levels. There is a flat-rate compensation of SEK 210 million over three years. Health business operators, who know how their member companies operate, consider this to be clearly inadequate. What they lack above all are clear signals from the government about what is needed in the long term and what one wants in the long term. If you want us to be able to have a health care where there are many actors who can play different roles in different contexts, you should rake the manegen and make the bed for it. But if you think that private carers are not good, you can say: Take a job instead, and go into hours! But then you can't come and talk about the right to full time. Madam President, I would like I hope the investigation will give a good verdict. I hope that the government will come forward with a proposal and do what is necessary so that we can return to the order that preceded the increase in VAT.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-198	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg deliberately misunderstands what I want. It is a classic grip in a debate, but it will not be more elegant for it. Mr Rothenberg knows very well that I am talking about the hired staff hired from their own companies to the private companies. For that individual, it makes no difference for job security one to be employed per hour or to be hired through their company per hour. No one is more enthusiastic than me for people to be permanent employees. This is about private companies that choose to hire staff. That's what Hans Rothenberg is fighting for, that you should hire staff not full time but for hours. That's what it's all about. It is possible to avoid the change in VAT by instead hiring per hour. The entire compensation to private carers is regulated between county councils and private companies. What private companies pay in tax is something that is determined by parliament and government or partly by the EU because it is a VAT directive from the EU, and that is what it is. But what the conditions are for the private health care providers in each county council is something that is regulated between the county councils and the private companies. There are all possibilities for both moderates in Västra Götaland and for moderates in Stockholm to give private companies the right conditions. In addition, the government spends money to make this possible.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-202	Madam President, I would like Angelica Lundberg has asked me what I intend to do to reduce the risk that personal identity numbers run out and how I want to prevent more people from getting a personal identity number that does not match their date of birth. The amendment made on 1 July 2009 means that the Swedish Tax Agency, for birth times where there are no more birth numbers to assign, may enter the birthday with a nearby day of the month. In exceptional cases, the Tax Agency may determine a personal identity number where the birth time in the personal identity number differs from the actual birthday. Instead, the correct date of birth is shown in the population register database. The amendment was implemented in order to meet the need for a larger number of personal identity numbers. In relation to the options considered, the amendment did not entail a radical and significantly more costly modification of the personal identity number system.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-205	Madam President, I would like I must thank the Government for the unusually short answer to my interpellation. It is clear that the Government has neither understood the problem nor has any solutions to overcome it. The number of unique social security numbers that the Swedish Tax Agency has to distribute is limited. Sweden has a system with a third digit as gender determination and a fourth as the last control digit in the personal identity number, which means that there are just under 1 000 personal numbers to be allocated for each day. As early as 2007, the Swedish Tax Agency signalled that the personal identity numbers for certain dates were running out. The government then set up an investigation that led to a bill. It was later clubbed through, and just as the Government said, the Tax Agency was given the opportunity to give people another date in the personal identity number if the numbers for the date on which the person was actually born have ended. The consequence of the proposal was that only a few people would receive a social security number that did not match their birthday and that it would never affect people under the age of 30. The government also stressed the importance, especially for children, of having a proper birthday in the personal identity number. In the investigation preceding the bill, it was considered that the personal identity number system had to contain large margins in order to cope with large-scale immigration, as it was called. The 2006 and 2007 levels of immigration were referred to as record highs. Immigration then amounted to about 100,000 people in two years. Thus, the investigator could not predict that the government's policies would lead to a further increase in immigration. It seems that it was only we Swedish democrats who realised this and who could also see what the consequences would be. The study also pointed out that many of the immigrants to Sweden reported on 1 January or 1 July as their birthday. Nevertheless, it was not considered that the proposal would have any major impact, as it would never affect younger people. This proved to be wrong. When the proposal was passed, eight people were affected. Immigration has since broken record on record. Surprisingly many people who come to Sweden state that they were born on 1 January, or they cannot prove their identity and therefore receive 1 January or 1 July in the personal identity numbers. The number of people who did not get their birthday in the personal identity number increased exceptionally much to a total of 2,500 in 2016 from 8 persons in 2009. But it did not stop there, but the number more than quadrupled in one year, between 2016 and 2017, to 11,000 people. Today, as many as 20 000 people have a social security number that does not match their birthday. Of these, almost 3,500 are children, and as many as 10,000, half, are under the age of 30.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-214	Madam President, I would like Just to get proportions of how big the problem is: Is it someone who is born in Sweden who gets the wrong date in the personal number? No, not what I've ever heard of. This is about people who are immigrants to Sweden. If you have a date of birth in May, October or April – is it common for you to have a date different from that in your passport or other ID document? No, it's not. This is mainly about people who come here with documents saying that they were born on 1 January or 1 July. Then you can get a different date than what is written in your passport or any other ID document that you have with you. Does this mean that you then have the wrong date of birth in the Swedish personal identity number? Yes, it does. Does this mean that 1 January or 1 July had been the correct date of birth? No, it would not have been the right date of birth either because many of those who have 1 January or 1 July in their actions come from countries where the exact date of birth of a child is not specified. Instead, they have an approximate task, often on 1 July or 1 January. However, it should be said that there may also be individuals who are actually born on 1 January or 1 July. It may be people from, for example, other countries in Europe, from the United States or from Latin America who have this as the correct date and who are now getting the wrong date. But the vast majority are people for whom both July 1, July 2 and July 3 are probably the wrong date because you don't know when they were born. It is important to point out that for those who come from another country in Europe and have really got the wrong date, the correct date of birth is also stated in the Swedish ID documents, both in passports and in driving licences. Is it worth spending many millions, hundreds of millions of dollars, on changing the entire census system? Should we have these costs both for the state and for private companies for new arrivals from countries such as Afghanistan, Somalia or Eritrea to have on 1 July instead of 2 July, probably both incorrect dates, in their passports? I find it difficult to motivate. If one thought that Sweden would also in the future have a large number of asylum seekers, as we had in 2014 – 2015, one might think about that. But the government has changed its migration policy. We have halved the cost of migration and intend to pursue a tight migration policy in the future as well. Against this background, I do not think it is worth adding all these millions to the fact that the personal identity number with the wrong date would instead contain another wrong date.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-220	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government does not seem to think that this is a problem. I also find it remarkable that the Government makes a distinction between people born in Sweden and people born abroad. Why would it be less worth being born abroad? I can't understand that. The personal identity number is something that is very important here in Sweden and something we use almost daily. Not only is not getting your birthday in your social security number unfair, but it also presents problems for those affected. One hit is six-year-old Milo. When Milo got his social security number, his mother discovered that it didn't match his birthday and called the IRS to get it changed. The Tax Agency then announced that the personal identity numbers for 1 January of that year had ended, and Milo received a different personal identity number. There was no appeal against the decision. Milo has since been questioned on several occasions, including at school, when he has told us that he is birthday on 1 January because it is written on 2 January in his social security number. His parents have had to explain this to both teachers and personnel in playland. I have two children myself, both in my six-year-olds. It's a sensitive time in life, and there's a lot going on when you start school and you're going to free yourself further from your parents. As a shy six - year - old, it is probably not easy to stand up when some staff question your birthday. It is therefore important to review the system again and this time to ensure that it lasts over time. The previous investigation concluded that the system at that time only worked for 50 years because of large immigration and that the new system should last for at least 100 years. The Swedish Tax Agency also believes that it is time for a new investigation because so many people are now affected and, above all, because it is now affecting children. For example, removing the gender-determining figure in the personal number would not be an adequate solution, since it would only mean that the personal numbers could be freely distributed between the sexes.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-228	Madam President, I would like Yeah, what am I gonna do? I intend to continue to pursue a tight migration policy. That's the answer. It is extremely serious if it is the case that children are being questioned by the school. Here it is important that school staff are informed that there may be individuals who start school, who go to school or who come to school with a social security number with a different date than their birthday. This is something that the staff, of course, do not have the right to question. It is possible that you should go out with more information and pay attention to this, because of course no child in Sweden should have to be questioned. However, I think it is important to point out that many of those who have an incorrect date in their personal identity number would not have had a correct date there either if it had been 1 July or 1 January, because many of those who have this come from countries where they do not have the exact date of birth. But that doesn't stop there being a number of children—reasonably a small number—like the child raised by Angelica, for whom it really is a problem that it is really the wrong date and where you know which date is the correct one. It is therefore, of course, important that there is good information. Changing the personal identity number system is a very costly reform. When investigations have been carried out, it has been difficult to estimate exactly how much it would cost, but it is about hundreds of millions of dollars. Given that, in any case, I see before me that Sweden will continue to have a very tight migration policy, it is difficult to justify that this will cost hundreds of millions of SEK, both for the public and for private companies.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-233	Madam President, I would like I can first of all state that the Government and I have very different views on what is tight migration policy. I can also say that if this reform is so incredibly costly, it is even more important that, when we redesign the personal number system, we make sure to make a system that is in place. Now we changed the personal identity number system just ten years ago, and it turned out that it was not enough at all. At present 20 000 people have an incorrect personal identity number. There are therefore more people affected by this than the number of people living in, for example, Nässjö or Hässleholm. The figure has increased by 700 per cent since 2016. The current government has been in power for over five years now. Obviously, this is not an issue on which particular attention has been paid. Therefore, there is reason to believe that the figure will increase further. Milo was not the first to suffer, and he will not be the last. The problems are obvious. The IRS wants to see a new investigation. What is it that makes the government say no to investigating just that, when you can investigate so much else? Aren't these 20,000 people important to the government?
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-237	Madam President, I would like All people are important to the government. However, there are many measures in society that I see a great need to increase resources to, and to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on people having a different date of birth in their personal identity number than the wrong date of birth they now have is obviously not the very best balance of our resources. To future-proof the system for Sweden to possibly have more years with as much immigration as in 2014 and 2015 is also not clearly balanced for me, as I see a continued very tight migration policy.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-239	Madam President, I would like Tony Haddou has asked me what initiatives I am prepared to take to address the problem of the so-called cum-cum and cum-ex frauds, which have hit several countries in Europe, and whether I believe there needs to be a public investigation. The proceedings referred to by the intervener are intended either to circumvent a country's withholding tax on dividends on shares or to request the repayment of such withholding tax on incorrect grounds. The withholding taxation of dividends on shares in Swedish companies to foreign owners is carried out in Sweden through the coupon tax. R the angle of coupon tax is generally outdated and in need of review. In November 2017, a special investigator was appointed to investigate, inter alia, whether the design of coupon tax leads to tax losses or circumvention and to consider how it should be addressed. The investigator's work has been completed, and the investigator's proposal is being prepared in the Ministry of Finance. In addition to robust withholding tax rules, the exchange of information between countries is crucial in order to prevent tax evasion by taxpayers. It is therefore of great importance that the exchange of information in the field of taxation in recent years has been greatly extended and will be further extended in the coming years.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-242	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Unfortunately, the Minister raises more questions and concerns than gives any concrete answer to the questions. Time and again the tax evasion of the rich is being exposed. It is, of course, money that could have gone to, among other things, health care and school- or to a dignified reception of refugees, which the Minister of Finance has just talked about. Now, this money is being charged off to a financial elite. This is where I believe the Minister for Finance must act. The reason I put questions to the Minister for Finance is that last year we were able to follow an international review, in which TT and SVT participated, which revealed the so-called cum-cum and cum-ex frauds. These stock arrangements have affected several countries in Europe. It has also been shown that several major European banks have been involved in tax schemes. According to a former bank manager at SEB, extensive tax arrangements with shareholder transactions have been made in Sweden. These arrangements have been called Europe's biggest tax fraud. I'd call it a distasteful fluffing party for the financial elite. Now it's been a year since the revelations. Policy action is needed to stop aggressive tax planning. The Minister of Finance refers to the investigation of the coupon tax, which is reasonable. I think we agree with each other that it needs to be modernised. But it has actually been a year since this came to light. Increased information exchange, as the Minister mentions, is of course important, but it can only have a limited effect as long as Swedish legislation is not strengthened in this area. I would like to hear something specific about the initiatives that the Minister for Finance is prepared to take on this type of tax scheme. Instead of a reference to an investigator, I would like to have an answer to the question of what the Finance Minister's own political assessment is.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-248	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpellant for raising a very urgent subject. Tax evasion and tax evasion are not only something that pulls away resources that we need in welfare but also something that destroys trust in society, the one that has made Sweden such a fantastic country. Cum-ex and cum-cum are two different phenomena that have been highlighted. Cum-ex is something that is clearly criminal. We must not do that; it is very clear that the legislation does not allow it. Here it is a matter of the Swedish Tax Agency having both sufficient information and resources to be able to work towards cum-ex. There, the increased exchange of information that we have and that we have decided on in the EU, and which is now also an automatic exchange of information, is an important tool for the Tax Agency. In addition, the Government has increased its resources to the Swedish Tax Agency in order to be able to work not least against international tax evasion. The second part is cum-cum. It is about how to change the Swedish system of coupon tax. There was an investigation with its report in the spring, and that report is now being prepared in the Government Office. I hope to be able to come up with proposals as soon as possible – the Swedish coupon tax law is out of date. I also hope that this proposal will be able to include measures addressing the cum-cum problem.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-251	Madam President, I would like There are also judgments in which this has been tried in Swedish courts, such as the Carnegie case. What is different in the arrangements that have been revealed is that the evidence is so clear. According to a new study that came two months ago from the European Securities and Markets Authority (Esma), it seems that the tax looting is still continuing, particularly in the case of European countries such as Belgium, Denmark and Sweden. The turnover in the stock market has been looked at around the dividend days, which usually take place in April or May when the transactions are carried out. In the analyses, it is clear that in most EU countries there is a marked increase in equity lending during that period. Many countries have almost completely strangled the possibilities for these arrangements by introducing a minimum period, a so-called withdrawal period, that the shares must be held before and after the date of distribution. The applicant for a refund of withholding tax often also has the burden of proof that what is carried out during the withdrawal period as a whole is commercial and legal. Germany is one example. It has managed to bring down lending stops to almost zero. They have a withdrawal period which makes it impossible to implement tax arrangements in this way. In Sweden, however, we do not have new legislation, which gives a clear picture of the fact that we have not addressed the problem when we have seen it pointed out in this study. My question to the Minister for Finance is simply whether she intends to introduce a similar regulatory framework as that in Germany, for example.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-255	Madam President, I would like Sweden and Germany have some different systems in terms of coupon tax and how the refund is made – whether it is done directly or afterwards. This means that it is not easy to compare the different systems. However, the study that has reviewed the coupon tax law has also looked at how to tackle this problem in Sweden. I hope that when we can bring forward new legislation, we will find a way to deal with this that fits in with Swedish legislation. I fully agree with the interpellier's view that this is a phenomenon that undermines the legitimacy of the tax system and also removes much-needed resources from the tax system for welfare.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-257	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Minister for Finance sees this. However, it is a year too late, because it has been so long since these frauds came up. Then the investigation would have come earlier – in December, I think – but it has been drawn on. Instead, what has happened is that these stock trading transactions have been able to continue. It is a typical example of how fraudsters constantly find new ways to deceive tax systems. The Finance Minister has simply not been there. This is an investigation that's gonna be over a year late. I believe that the legislation must go with it. The investigation that the Minister of Finance has mentioned may also conclude that we should adapt to EU law. These are proposals that often come from the Ministry of Finance. Will the Minister of Finance be satisfied if, for example, we adapt to EU law? In fact, several other countries are taking the lead in this regard. I have mentioned a few examples. I think the Minister of Finance should act and attack such transactions. I'd like to see that. We have seen that countries that have gone ahead have been able to close such transactions, and I think that Sweden should also be able to do so without waiting this long for an investigation. It's been more than a year. The Minister of Finance always says that we should do something about tax evasion, but nothing has happened in a year.
i-fa01ec25b62185a8-261	Madam President, I would like We often have a slightly longer legislative process in Sweden than in other EU countries, Tony Haddou. It is because we have our tradition of first having a public investigation and then sending it out for a referral so that all parts of society have the opportunity to express their views on the legislation. The government then decides on a legislative referral, and that is how it should be reviewed. The Government then takes decisions that come to Parliament, and then the Riksdag takes decisions. But there are also points in having it this way. There are fewer legislative errors, and there is also the possibility of involving anyone who may be affected by changes in society. I think that is fundamentally good for democracy. However, I share the view that it is extremely important for the government to be active and work against tax evasion. Here, too, we have made a wide range of efforts in my years as Minister of Finance. We have improved the exchange of information, we have an automatic exchange of information and we have pushed through the EU for a black list of countries called tax havens. There are jurisdictions that are tax havens, and v i has commissioned the Tax Agency to specifically examine transactions with such countries. In addition, we have changed the way we see Malta in terms of the possibility of simplifying legislation. We have given an assignment and increased resources to the Swedish Tax Agency. We have a real head register to be introduced. In addition, we have increased requirements for cash registers and staff in Sweden. Here we have therefore worked actively to reduce the potential for tax evasion, and, nota bene, several of these measures have also been implemented in cooperation with the Left Party. I would like to thank the government for its support in this work.
