i-789d595e82d72703-0	Mr President, I would like to On Saturday, it was just 30 years since the Berlin Wall fell. The Iron Curtain and cold war gave way, and instead increased cooperation in Europe grew – a historical cooperation. And just today 25 years ago, Swedes went to polling stations all over the country in a referendum on EU membership. Before that vote, Sweden was a country of debate. On jacket strokes and bumpers you could read either Our belonging as Europeans was not self-evident to everyone. Sweden had escaped the wars that plagued the rest of Europe. We may have seen ourselves more as actors, stockholmers or Swedes than as part of the continent. At the same time, the EU was and is a unique peace project in which countries become stronger through exchanges and trade. Mr President, I would like to Today 25 years ago, a majority voted in favour of Sweden joining the European Union. It is therefore particularly appropriate to have the opportunity today for the first time to present the government's declaration on EU policy. I would like to share with you the Government's view of the European Union and present the five main priorities for the coming years. The political debate on Europe is no longer about yes or no, for or against. We are now discussing issues of substance, social problems and Sweden's role in the Union. Even if it is possible to disagree on these issues, let us know this: A cohesive Europe is our best asset when the outside world is concerned, an open Europe is Sweden's best tool for more jobs and economic development, and a united Europe is the best guarantor of peace. Mr President, I would like to Membership of the European Union is a foundation for Sweden. It is crucial for our economy, our security and our voice in the world. Sweden is an exporting country, and 70% of all goods we export – paper, cars, electronics – go to other countries in Europe. Sweden has a strong influence in the EU today. Our voice is heard. What we do matters. But sometimes it has also been understood that Sweden has hesitated too much in the face of EU cooperation, and it has not always served our interests. Our ability to influence the decisions, direction and development of the European Union is of fundamental importance for the protection of our national interests. Sweden's starting point should be that we fully participate in EU cooperation and are active in the design of all its parts in a way that protects Swedish interests. Sweden should be a driving force in issues that we prioritise. What does that mean? Well, the other countries should know that Sweden can be counted on. We can choose to remain out of it sometimes, as with the euro. That choice is firm, but the main rule is that Sweden should use the opportunity to influence the EU because it is a fundamental national interest. We are taking our chance to improve the Union. That is why the government wants Sweden to join the EU Public Prosecutor's Office, to continue to engage in the deepening of defence cooperation, to do more in the EU to combat crime and to consider the possibility of membership of the Banking Union. We in Sweden are always trying to make an impact on our ideas. We are creating new alliances, but we know at the same time that cooperation requires compromises because the alternative to cooperation is solitude and nationalism – something that we can see the ultimate consequence of on Europe's war cemeteries. Mr President, I would like to In order to improve cooperation, the government considers that the five main issues for the EU's work in the coming years are: democracy and the rule of law, the climate, jobs, migration and security. Let me start with the very basis of all our work in the Union. All Member States have agreed on some fundamental values, including people's equal value, democracy and the rule of law. After the fall of the wall, Europe was a continent of optimism. The feeling was that freedom and democracy could not be stopped. Today, things are different. In some Member States, the independence of the judiciary, the freedom of the media and universities are threatened. It harms the whole Union. Although countries may have different views on substance and need to compromise, everyone must respect the fundamental values on which cooperation is based – both because the history of our continent shows what can happen when we turn a blind eye to fundamental human rights and because EU cooperation as a whole is otherwise watered down. Trust between countries is eroded, investment is lost, trade is reduced and jobs are put at risk. Sweden will never compromise on people's equal value, democracy and the rule of law, and we in Europe need to ensure that the rest of Europe is not tempted to do so either. Mr President, I would like to Managing climate change is a huge opportunity for Europe. No human being and no company or country is able to switch on their own. It's as simple as that. What is needed here is what is essentially the EU's parade, namely cooperation. Europe should lead the transition, not only because it is an obligation to our children, but also to strengthen our countries. When our Member States lead the transition to innovation and research, our companies also have climate-smart solutions that a whole world demands. This creates environmental benefits in the importing countries, improves the economies of the exporting countries and means more jobs in Europe and more money for prosperity. It strengthens Europe's position when we show that a fair climate change is possible. Herein lies the possibility. Climate change now contributes to more jobs and stronger well-being today and in the future. Sweden should therefore push for a climate law at EU level. We will also work towards strengthening other climate legislation and for an increasing proportion of the EU budget to go precisely to the climate change transition. The EU's emissions reduction target for 2030 will be tightened so that the ambition is in line with the Paris Agreement's 1.5°C target, and the EU will achieve net zero emissions by 2050. Europe should take the opportunity to lead the transition for the simple reason that we people, our businesses and the climate benefit from this. Mr President, I would like to The everyday life, life and working conditions of men and women are to be improved through the EU. One way is for cooperation to contribute to more jobs. For this to be possible in an increasingly difficult time of global competition, the EU needs a modern and sustainable industrial policy based on trade and the internal market rather than protectionism. But the EU should not only have more jobs, but we should have decent jobs. If you work in Sweden, Swedish rules must be followed. That's just the way it is. Wage dumping and unfair competition must be eliminated. I am proud of Sweden's success when it comes to decent jobs. Let's get on with it. The principles of the social pillar are to be respected, and Sweden will continue to lead the work for a safer labour market. The government will work towards a zero vision of fatal accidents at work in the EU. We want legislation that prohibits carcinogenic substances in working life. Our Nordic labour market model must be protected. It's the best in the world. Now that an initiative on minimum wages is being discussed at EU level, the Nordic model must be respected. Through a modern industry, more jobs with decent conditions and a strong Nordic model, we get a Europe that really improves people's everyday lives. Mr President, I would like to During the refugee crisis in 2015, one thing became clear: Migration must be a joint responsibility of the EU Member States. The European Union has not been able to do this. Several attempts have been made to reach an agreement on refugee policy, with little significant progress being made. It is deeply unsatisfactory. Ultimately, everyone will have to compromise. But we have to work broadly. We must work beyond the borders of the European Union to contribute to peace and development so that fewer people are forced to go to Europe on dangerous roads. We must work at the borders of the European Union to break the ruthless smuggling of human beings, save lives and have control over our borders. We must work within the borders of the European Union for a more even distribution of those people who, according to the right of asylum, have reason to stay. If some Member States refuse to accept their responsibilities, it will cost. Only through joint responsibility can the EU find a way forward. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden crime is combated with the full force of society against today's organised crime. We don't know any boundaries. According to police estimates, international theft leagues account for half of all residential burglaries. And weapons smuggled into the Union are used in shootings in Swedish cities. The government will therefore take new steps to deepen EU cooperation against cross-border crime and terrorism. We're gonna be where we can be. The government wants to strengthen European police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, Europol and Eurojust. We need to be better at cooperating on police intelligence, evidence gathering and pre-trial investigations. EU legislation on explosives needs to be tightened up. And security at the EU's external border needs to be enhanced by biometric verification so that we can know who is crossing. We will have a safer union and a safer Sweden. The EU will also contribute to a safer world outside the Union. When anti-democratic forces tighten their muscles, Europe is needed as a strong voice for peace, democracy and human rights. There are good examples: the sanctions against Russia, the Eastern Partnership and the efforts against pirates in the Horn of Africa. All too often, however, the voice of the European Union is lacking in world politics. We should be able to do better. The fact that cooperation in the field of foreign affairs is based on unity can be a strength. But in practice it can sometimes be a restraint. One example is that the EU sometimes fails to make joint statements on human rights in global fora such as the UN, because some or some countries have chosen to block. In order to strengthen the voice of the European Union in the outside world, we should therefore look at the possibility of moving from the call for unanimous decisions to qualified majority decisions in certain areas of foreign policy, without compromising the right of each country to decide on its own security policy line. These are issues relating to human rights and international conflicts. Mr President, I would like to Britain is leaving the Union. At the same time, countries that are excluded want to be part of the cooperation. There is sometimes a concern that the EU is moving too fast, that we are not ready to bring in more members. Much has happened since the last enlargement. We must take this into account. At the same time, we have good reasons to deepen our cooperation with our neighbours. If the EU is not present, other powers will take that space. Here is the opportunity to become a member in the long term important. The government supports the idea of reviewing the whole enlargement process. The process of membership negotiations must be rigorous. All requirements shall be fully met and shall continue to be complied with once a country has been accepted as a member. I want everyone to be safe, too. This is how we build stronger cooperation. Mr President, I would like to There are many of us who remember November Day 25 years ago when we said yes to European cooperation. However, many people also know nothing but that Sweden is a member of the EU. They have learned about our referendum in history lessons, have studied abroad using Erasmus or have worked in another country on a seasonal basis, and perhaps see themselves as Europeans. Sweden said yes 25 years ago. We see the power of EU cooperation today. We have already gone from war and conflict to peace and cohesion. It's something to be proud of. The EU has improved people's lives. Membership has strengthened our countries. Once we decide in Europe, we set a standard for the rest of the world, as in the work against dangerous chemicals. Let's take the next step. We will lead the climate transition, continue the peace efforts and strengthen the cooperation. In particular, Sweden will continue to work together in the EU to improve people's everyday lives and lives, both at home and in the rest of Europe.
i-789d595e82d72703-29	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have warned from day one that the EU's social pillar is a threat to the Swedish model. In fact, we read the official documents of the European Commission, and we listened when the President of the Commission spoke about requirements for European minimum wages, requirements for European parental insurance and requirements for European sickness benefit. The Social Democrats dismissed all warnings, those from the right and those from the left. Stefan Löfven accused me of going untruthful. On the contrary, Sweden would be in charge of the work. The Swedish government invited its own EU summit. Stefan Löfven said, "We'll be very proud." ..................................................... This is actually a rather tragic story. A Swedish party that has a former trade union leader as party leader becomes the driving force for a project that threatens the Swedish model. The incoming Commission now promises to enforce binding legislation on European minimum wages within 100 days. LO and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise hook their arm on the DN Debate and says: They demand that the government, which is opposite me here in the Chamber, act now. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are doing everything we can to stop such a directive. We work hard in the European Parliament to protect Sweden from poverty and, as the Prime Minister says, to respect a Swedish and Nordic model. My question to Stefan Löfven is: What exactly are the Social Democrats doing?
i-789d595e82d72703-33	Mr President, I would like to We start with the facts, and it is a fact that the issue of minimum wages has been discussed for many years, well before the social pillar. The rules on parental insurance are almost 30 years old, if I remember correctly. These are issues that have existed a long time ago and which have been discussed for a long time. I am very proud of the social pillar. I am proud of the fact that all the Member States of the European Union are joining forces and saying: firstly, on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of our conditions and our rules, we will ensure that there is greater equality for access to the labour market, so that more people get to work. Secondly, we must ensure that the conditions in that labour market are good and that there are decent jobs. Thirdly, we must ensure that social security is increased when you cannot work because you are ill or unemployed. Which of those questions do the Moderates think is the worst? We work hard for good terms. It should be an open and good market where you can move companies and sell goods and services. But that market must be such that employees feel safe. When employees do not feel secure, it is bad for themselves, but it also weakens the whole market. At some point right-wing parties must also understand that it is the employees who do the job. They're the ones who build the welfare. They're not parties. It is neither Kristersson nor I who do. It's the employees. They're supposed to have the right conditions. It can't be that hard. It should be equal pay for equal work. That is why we made sure to amend the Posting of Workers Directive. Now these rules apply when you come here, and Swedish trade unions can stand up for collective agreements so that we do not get wage dumping. Here at home we removed lex Laval for the same reason. We Social Democrats intend to continue like this, Ulf Kristersson, because we are on the workers' side. When will you choose to do the same?
i-789d595e82d72703-38	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, this was not for a moment an answer to the question I asked. I put it more precisely and precisely. What will the Social Democrats and the Swedish Government do in actual action so that the threats will not be implemented as LO and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise pointed out yesterday as regards the Commission's forthcoming proposal?
i-789d595e82d72703-39	Mr President, I would like to It's not about what we're going to do, it's about what we're already doing. We will safeguard the Nordic model, our model agreement. That is why we say exactly the same thing: we should not have directives in this area. That dialogue is already under way. We must also understand that the rest of Europe wants fair conditions on its labour markets. I think it is right to strive for it. But it should not be at the expense of the Swedish model. We have the world's best wage-setting system, not just the best in Europe. It shouldn't be destroyed. I hope that the Moderates, Social Democrats and all the other parties in the Swedish Parliament will help each other in this matter. That would be good. It would also be good if we could help to think about other ways of strengthening employees' conditions, so that we have a labour market characterised by decent jobs and nothing else.
i-789d595e82d72703-42	Mr President, I would like to I was going to talk about something quite different, but I am being provoked by the Prime Minister's total lack of ability to answer simple concrete questions in these debates. I therefore repeat Ulf Kristersson's question but perhaps ask it in a slightly different way. Let me give you what the Prime Minister said: the Nordic model must be respected. When the Prime Minister then answers Ulf Kristersson's question, he talks about what he thinks, what is good and what is bad, but he does not answer the question what the government does and what it intends to do. If the Prime Minister wants the Nordic model to be respected, I ask the question: How should the Prime Minister ensure that the Nordic model is respected? Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the Nordic model is respected here and now?
i-789d595e82d72703-44	Mr President, I would like to I'll take it again. We should not have directives in this area. This message is very clear to the European Commission and everyone else around the EU. It is not a directive that is needed but another regulation. What is important is to create the right conditions throughout the European labour market. Many people long for it, and I think we should help them to do so. I understand that the Swedish Democrats may not be interested in it, but we are. We're so preoccupied with it. At the same time, we must preserve our collective agreement model. It is possible to introduce a regulation that does not harm the Swedish collective agreement model. It shall apply. States should not interfere in wage formation in Sweden, but the parties should do so. And it's possible to do that. It would be good if the Swedish democrats in their forums also devoted themselves to employees' conditions, how they can be improved while maintaining the Swedish model of contract. It's quite possible.
i-789d595e82d72703-46	Mr President, I would like to Here it is not a question of the state interfering in Swedish wage formation but of Brussels doing so, which is even worse. I ask the question again: How?
i-789d595e82d72703-48	Mr President, I would like to I answer the same way I've done before. If that answer has not emerged, we will have to stand here for a long time without Åkesson understanding. I think it'll have to fall on him.
i-789d595e82d72703-49	Mr President, I would like to The European Union should do the right thing. In this way, it will be a powerful, sharp and future-oriented Union. The EU should work proactively on issues that are cross-border, such as the environment and climate, cross-border crime, migration and trade, but not on issues that are best dealt with at national level or perhaps not even there, but between the social partners. I am now the third person to lift up the social pillar. We do not do this because we think it is fun to debate, but we do it out of concern for the Swedish model that has been a forerunner for Sweden for a very long time. In the elections to the European Parliament, the Prime Minister and the Social Democrats argued that harmonising social issues through the pillar would not pose a risk to the Swedish labour market. Nevertheless, many of us warned against this. Yesterday, the parties, both the workers' side and the employers' side, warned against this very thing. Now we've got the facts. Frans Timmermans, the Social Democrats' own candidate for President of the Commission, went out at the end of April and said that a minimum wage is needed in the EU. The incoming Commission has now been so charmed by European Social Democrats that it has promised to make a proposal already this spring. I wonder: What did the Social Democrats really think the social pillar would lead to? Will the Social Democrats devote the next five years to saying no to all the concrete and sharp content that will be put forward under the social pillar? The Social Democrats themselves were involved in pushing it forward. Would it not have been better to think before and realise that social issues and things put at European level also lead to sharp and concrete legislative proposals?
i-789d595e82d72703-53	Mr President, I would like to I think Annie Lööf starts in a good way. It's just about doing the right things at the right level. But it is important not to confuse the cards. The issues of minimum wages, parental insurance and other things have been raised for discussion long before the social pillar was discussed at all. Such questions may come at any time. Various proposals can come from the Commission at any time. As I said, the social pillar aims to create equal access to the labour market. It is about education and gender equality issues. It is also a question of having the right conditions in the labour market. I think that's good and safe. The working environment must be good. If you can't work, there should be reasonable social security. It is good for the employees; it is they who bring out the welfare. In none of these cases, it says that decisions are to be taken here at EU level in Brussels. Go to the Commission's website and look at the follow-up to the social pillar! There you can see all these points listed. You can also see a scoreboard where countries are compared and you can see which ones have come the longest. The whole point is that countries can do what they want on these particular issues. It's on the countries. I got a question about minimum wages. I know Frans Timmermans something better. I meet him regularly, as do the other Socialist representatives. It is true that they want decent wages throughout the European labour market. So do I. But I say equally clearly to Frans Timmermans or whoever it is: In Sweden we have the world's best wage-setting system. You are actually looking at us and wondering how we can manage what we are doing, that is, deliver real wage improvements and productivity improvements for 20 years in a row, and have so few conflicts. I say then that it depends on our collective agreement model. You're not going after that. Feel free to create rules on equal pay for equal work, but don't get on our model.
i-789d595e82d72703-57	Mr President, I would like to After all, it is not only we party leaders who ask questions to Stefan Löfven, but also the social partners. Both LO and PTK and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise have said that this can mean a dagger blow for the Swedish model. I understand what the Social Democratic dream of the social pillar consists of. The Prime Minister usually claims that it is a declaration with a content that is important for the whole of the Union. At the same time, however, when raising issues that are not cross-border to the European level, Pandora's box opens up for concrete legislative proposals, directives and regulations to be put on the table. Are the Social Democrats going to work over the next five years to say no to everything presented because Pandora's box has now been opened? The proposal to introduce a minimum wage at EU level shows the concrete effects in a very clear way. Is it not time for Stefan Löfven to admit that he and the Social Democrats were wrong and that they actually opened Pandora's box and now do not really know what proposals will be put on the table under the social pillar?
i-789d595e82d72703-60	Mr President, I would like to Since, even before the social pillar was discussed at all, demands were made for minimum wages in Europe, it is not the social pillar that has brought about this discussion. It is achieved for the simple reason that for many workers in the European labour market there are too few conditions. It is quite reasonable that Italian, Portuguese, Romanian and other workers across the continent should also want to improve their conditions. What we say to them is: Do it – we will support you! But you should not do that by destroying the world's best wage-setting system: the Swedish collective agreement model. I met the parties last week, including for this reason. We're in complete agreement. We'll work together. Now we will ensure that all parties in the Swedish Parliament bring the same message to the EU and Europe: Don't touch our collective agreement model! We can do it well for the employees anyway.
i-789d595e82d72703-62	Mr President and Mr Löfven, the President-in-Office of the Council. A few weeks ago the Turkish tanks rolled into northern Syria. The weapons were directed against the Kurds, Christians and Arabs who did the job when the Islamic State was defeated. What we are seeing is extensive ethnic cleansing and terror against the population of northern Syria. At the same time, the European Union has very close relations with Turkey. Very large sums of money are being paid to Turkey, both under the refugee agreement it has and under the pre-accession aid that exists; Turkey is still formally a candidate country for the European Union. When this pre-accession assistance has been examined, it has turned out that, for example, it has gone to military vehicles in Turkey. It has been done to consolidate the border where Syrian refugees have not been protected but have been shot at when they seek protection. That's where our tax money went. The Prime Minister is well aware that a great deal of the money goes to the Turkish state. My question to Stefan Löfven is: Is it reasonable that Swedish tax money should go to a military that conducts ethnic cleansing in northern Syria?
i-789d595e82d72703-66	Mr President, I would like to I naturally agree with Jonas Sjöstedt's description of what happened in northern Syria. That was wrong, and that is why Sweden and the EU have said that it is not acceptable. It is simply a violation of international law. That's where we've been clear. But this is also an example where it took too long. That is why I am now raising the question that we want to try the possibility of taking decisions by qualified majority rather than by unanimity on some foreign policy issues. Here, some or some countries could block the EU's statement to Turkey for a few days. That's not good. Jonas Sjöstedt mentions two different aids. Of course, all aid must be reviewed and revised. If there are any errors, they should of course be corrected. It is not that the money should go to the purposes described by Jonas Sjöstedt. That's not the idea. In the case of refugees, as I have described many times, it can be a question of children's schools, supplies, housing and opportunities for education aimed at people being able to work and make a living in such circumstances – all that supports the refugees. The vast majority of the money goes to various organisations. Some go to local authorities to make it possible, for example, to build a school. You must first account for what the money is to be used for. Then they are paid out. I think it's a good order. Pre-accession aid from the EU to Turkey has been substantially reduced. Jonas Sjöstedt knows that. But some of it's still there. The main aim is to use it to support a civil society and that type of organisation to ensure that Turkey can participate in European cooperation on the day it happens – now that day is very far away. The support should not go to tanks or weapons.
i-789d595e82d72703-71	Mr President, I would like to I thank Prime Minister Löfven for his answer. I believe that it will be a form of double message on the part of the European Union when, in general terms, it condemns Turkey's entry while still paying out the money. There is a public message, but also an indirect message: we will not go against you when it is felt in the economic sphere. Then I mean you haven't done what you have to do. I believe that the government should demand that pre-accession aid cease as long as Turkish soldiers are on Syrian soil. Why doesn't the government do that?
i-789d595e82d72703-74	Mr President, I would like to In any case, I note that Mr Sjöstedt does not call for aid to refugees to be withdrawn. I'm glad. It would be a shame if that were the case. This is exactly where it goes wrong, in my opinion. If you have an idea of the Turkish government and then tell the refugees that you are withdrawing support for their housing, food for the children and so on, you have come to the wrong conclusion. I can understand the question of pre-accession aid. But as I said, it also goes to things that benefit us. We are pleased with developments in Turkey on the civil society side and democratic development there. You have to try on a case-by-case basis what is reasonable. But the support shouldn't go to tanks or weapons-- that's my firm opinion.
i-789d595e82d72703-76	Mr President, I would like to In this spring's election campaign and in several debates before it, Stefan Löfven promised the Swedish people that there would be no new unemployment fund at EU level. We are now leaving the minimum wage and moving to the unemployment fund. There would be no new legislation or new charges. The Swedish model would be protected. Both we and others would have to design their own labour market and social policy. We now know that wasn't true. Several legislative proposals have already been adopted, and the Commission is at the heart of the next social policy grab: the European unemployment fund. It is easy, as easy as last spring, to see where it is inclined: a permanent system of transfers from countries such as Sweden and Denmark to countries such as Greece and Spain. Since the Social Democrats last spring were so crystal clear that it would not be this way, of course they voted 'no' when the issue was up, right? I'm afraid not. The fact is that the Members of the Social Democrats were not even able to vote 'no'. They chose not to. Heléne Fritzon, who is responsible for the social pillar of the Socialist Group, had excellent chances of putting an end to or at least speaking out forcefully. She didn't do either. So it was not a promise on the part of the Social Democrats. It was just a promise – something that is said before the election and then does not apply after the election. I would like to say in this House what I think this is: pitiful. You can't do that. Would it not have been more honest and more democratic to tell this before the elections and not to wave it away when we warned against this exactly?
i-789d595e82d72703-82	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish a-kassas are still there and must remain. They serve a good purpose. This is an issue that certainly varies across Europe on how to solve it. I think it is good to ensure that workers and employees who are unable to work for one reason or another have social security throughout Europe. It's good for them, but it's good for us too. We have to understand that. When conditions improve in other countries, it will be better for our companies to compete. This is basically a good approach that does not have to mean that our unemployment fund is destroyed, deteriorates or cannot remain. The matter in which the Socialist Members took part in the vote was much wider, as I am sure Ebba Busch Thor knows very well. This was only a part – hence the closure of votes. We do not stand up and press for any European unemployment fund that would make Swedish unemployment funds more difficult or impossible. It is exactly the same as for the wage formation discussion that we had before. It's part of our model. I think it is good that we have the model that employees can have their unemployment funds. It is the best thing for the functioning of the labour market. There may be many proposals at European level. I'm sure there'll be a few more. Some suggestions that come up and we are told about are what we think is good. We can do that together in Europe. For some we will say: No, this is not right. It will not create sufficient conditions for Swedish interests, and we will say so. This is the model of wage formation, and this applies to the unemployment fund.
i-789d595e82d72703-88	Mr President, I would like to Do you feel the wind blowing in the hall? It is the wind of a coat that is turning around in this very moment in this House. In the election campaign ahead of the European elections, the promise of the Social Democrats was: no unemployment fund at EU level. Now we hear the drift in rhetoric from Prime Minister Stefan Löfven : No unemployment fund at EU level that affects the Swedish unemployment fund in any way. But that was not the promise that was made when we warned and raised our fears. As late as October, Heléne Fritzon, with the other leading Social Democrats, does not say no to a proposal in which the European Parliament should have an opinion to the Commission on precisely whether or not we should have an unemployment fund at European level. Mr President, I would like to Does this mean, then, that the Social Democrats have changed and are open to this at European level?
i-789d595e82d72703-92	Mr President, I would like to The answer is no. Does the House feel the icy wind of right-wing conservatism?
i-789d595e82d72703-93	What I am saying, Mr President, is that I understand very well that other employees throughout Europe also want security if they cannot work. What about their livelihood? That they are striving for it is quite natural to me, and we should give them every support for this. It would be good if the Christian Democrats also expressed that. We shall help to ensure that all employees throughout Europe have a decent life when they cannot work or when they seek another job so that they can also make a living. But we will also help to ensure that the Swedish unemployment fund remains. Maybe we can shake hands on that.
i-789d595e82d72703-95	Mr President, I would like to We have now had meteorologists in the Chamber, so we have to hold on to the hat! Here comes a Liberal who believes in European cooperation. We have believed it for many years. Here we meet some anxiety-charged posts. There is concern that Europe has ambitions and also social ambitions. For us liberals, that's no wonder. We chose to support the focus on non-binding ideas about a social pillar. We believe that if Europe is to continue to be this strong port of democracy in a difficult world, we must work more together in each area. It has to make a difference for individuals. We Liberals believe that things are connected. The vulnerability and poverty that we see in some European countries are behind and driving the crime that we can see and that we all feel such despair about. It is about international theft leagues, human trafficking and drug professionals. They're people who make a living selling guns and death. If we are to counteract this, we obviously need huge efforts in European police cooperation, which we Liberals are happy to push forward. But one must also see what is the reason for this. There is a point in defending the social pillar in this respect. However, the Liberals would like to put on record that the Swedish party model should be protected. Stefan Löfven has all the support in this context to ensure that what he is now saying is true. However, I have a question for the Prime Minister. We look forward to this Europe which has given us so much and which continues to deliver more security for vulnerable citizens. But we still need to do more to fight crime. I welcome the positive approach that now exists to strengthen police and prosecution cooperation, as well as criminal and procedural law. What concrete steps does the government intend to take in this area in the near future?
i-789d595e82d72703-102	Mr President, I would like to I listened gratefully to the view of the social pillar. I share that view. It will have a major impact on the overall perception of the EU among the general public, and that is important. There are some things we want to do. We want to strengthen cooperation within Europol. I visited Europol in the spring– I think it was in March or April – in The Hague. There you can see very clearly how the cooperation benefits Sweden. It is about the exchange of information and direct contact via Swedish liaison officers in The Hague who ensure that we get information. We can get better at preliminary investigations and information gathering. This could be about crime in the EU and Europe, but also about gathering information about what has happened in the case of terrorists in Iraq and northern Syria. We can also develop more cooperation within Eurojust so that more can be done on the prosecution side. We now want to investigate Eppo. We think we should probably join it. It is aimed at cheating with EU subsidies. There we want to investigate whether Sweden can be part of this authority. We're about to get the investigation into the Banking Union. Then we'll see the analysis of it. It is actually a Euroforum. Nevertheless, we would like to try the possibility that we should also be a member of the Banking Union. As far as borders are concerned, the issue is being pursued and rules on the EU's external border will soon be implemented. We think that biometric verification is a good thing. We want to speed it up as much as possible. We are also saying that we could have the same kind of verification even if you go inside the EU to know how people move and who has moved between countries and so on. There are a number of such things that are important to us. It is important that we see that perspective when we are now really going to tackle organised crime in Sweden. We are doing the right thing in Sweden, but we can do more in cooperation with our comrades in the European Union.
i-789d595e82d72703-109	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. For the Liberals, it is important to ensure, if we move forward, that we have more operational power within Europol, for example. For example, it was only a few days ago, or just recently, that a explosive factory in Poland was found to be working together to supply large criminals throughout Europe and, above all, in Sweden, it seems, with explosives. We need to reinforce this. We see that Eurojust is happy to have a broader mandate, for example, in the field of terrorism. It would be good if the government brought this along now that you go into Eppo. Finally, the Banking Union must be mentioned. I and the Liberals welcome the commitment to take stronger steps into the European economic arena. It is no secret that the Liberals voted for our participation in the euro. Perhaps it would have been good for Swedish employees today if we were to look at purchasing power. The Banking Union has an important role to play in strengthening the fight against money laundering. The money must be washed after it has been earned on death and misery.
i-789d595e82d72703-112	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree that we need to develop as much as possible in Europol and ensure that resources are available there. These are very concrete things that are being done. You can follow drugs that land in Spain and its path to finally be able to hit those who trade in drugs also here in Sweden and more. Eurojust is also of this nature. I want to add something that I think is important. These are bilateral collaborations. Sweden and Denmark now agree that we need to do more in the Öresund region. Denmark has introduced border controls. We had long introduced border controls from the other side. Now it is important that we ensure that we cooperate. I have now met with the Danish Prime Minister to ensure that we strengthen our cooperation with the exchange of information and more. This applies both to what we are doing in Europe and to what we are going to do bilaterally. This is all we can do to ensure that organised crime is broken.
i-789d595e82d72703-115	I would like to take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to the many representatives of the diplomatic corps who are here in the gallery to the Swedish Parliament. We are pleased that you are following the European political party leader debate. Of course, all other audiences are also warmly welcome to the Swedish Parliament.
i-789d595e82d72703-116	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we are meeting here today, party leaders from all parties, to debate serious matters. But honestly: today, with all due respect, the debate should not be about Europe. It should be about the serious crime. Three days ago, a 15-year-old boy was shot dead in Malmö. So he was born in 2004. My own girls were born in 2003. 15-year-olds are going in ninth grade to play football. They're not to be murdered in a pizzeria. The murders are many and ruthless. In April, an 18-year-old guy was shot dead. In September, an 18-year-old girl and a young mother were shot with their child. For five long years, this government has failed to break the trend. On the contrary, violence is even worse every week. Something that may never be fixed is breaking. Sweden has become a European leader in shootings and blasts. It is this development that must be stopped and turned right, but this government cannot do the job. In a first step, therefore, the Minister of Justice, who has been responsible for five years, must resign. In other countries, his boss, or possibly the minister himself, had already solved this issue. In the next step, a whole new policy is needed, and this requires a completely new government. Mr President, I would like to I understand that nothing else feels really important when the state cannot guarantee security, law and order. But believe me – Europe and Sweden's role in the EU is also important. The fight against theft and drug trafficking has no national solution, nor does it have the fight against terrorism or, for that matter, the fight against the climate threat. Only with others can we solve common problems. But that does not mean that Europe can solve Sweden's problems for us. The EU is not a political contractor. What we ourselves have caused, we must do something about ourselves. It is the inability and wrong priorities of the Social Democrats and the Green Party that are the problems of Sweden, not Brussels. However, it is not enough for Sweden to be a member of the European Union, as we know 25 years ago today. We must make a strong contribution to the development of cooperation. That is exactly what other countries are doing now. France goes in one direction, formulated by President Macron in a speech at Sorbonne and now in a long interview in The Economist. I think it's the wrong way, but he has a way. Italy is moving in another direction and Poland and Hungary are moving in a third direction. Britain is moving in a completely different direction. The choice is therefore between being involved and leading with Germany, among others, or following the most. But leading requires will, priorities, commitment to the task and an ability to get something done. This government doesn't. As little as the government has a well-thought-out policy at home, it does in Brussels. First of all, do the right thing at home! A strong Swedish voice abroad begins with authority at home. No one listens to a prime minister or prime minister who is unable to take responsibility for his own country. Criminality, immigration policy and failed integration – nothing attracts respect on the other side of the Öresund Bridge. Yesterday, the Danes introduced border controls in order, as the Social Democratic Government said, to see developments in Sweden and do not want it to spread to Denmark. ..................................................... Two weeks ago TV4 and European media reported that Swedish authorities are advertising more people to come to Sweden and live on grants. Swedish companies are raising respect in the EU, but according to the Commission 2020, Sweden is receiving second lowest growth across the EU. Today, only four countries have higher unemployment rates. If we are to have political influence in Europe, we must first do the right thing in Sweden. Secondly, more cooperation! The Moderates have restarted a comprehensive collaboration with our Nordic and Baltic friends. A few weeks ago, we met in Vilnius. Next week we have a pre-meeting in Zagreb. We probably do not change the world, but eight countries play a greater role in the EU than one country. The government has not taken a single similar initiative. Instead, the Minister for the Interior now pretends that Danish border controls are an example of cooperation. The problem is that the government has never seen Europe as our main foreign policy arena. The UN Security Council is important, but it is through EU membership that Sweden can have real influence in the world. Thirdly, do the right thing in Europe! Sweden must put energy on the right things. We must use the EU to strengthen security in Sweden and to stop theft leagues and terrorists. We shall have a climate policy in which 27 countries, and not just one country, can push the whole world. We should have an immigration policy that not only hopes that one day everything will work out but works in practice. Equally important is that the Swedish Government is pushing ahead in Brussels because the Swedish EU contribution does not increase when the EU is falling. Instead, the Social Democrats have put their energies on a social pillar, which leads to supranational labour market policies and demands for European minimum wages. The Moderates warned. The Social Democrats said it was safe. LO and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise are now alerting together. Read as I said DN Debate yesterday! This would hurt Sweden seriously. The EU should do what it does best. But hunting, snus and wage formation can be done by ourselves in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Europe is now in a position where a strong Swedish voice would be more important than perhaps ever before. Then the government lacks both focus and action here at home and in Brussels. The Moderates offer an alternative, because we know what we want both in Sweden and in Europe.
i-789d595e82d72703-131	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats and the Moderates were involved in bringing Sweden into the EU. It has been good for Sweden; we have been strengthened by being able to export to the smaller market. It has created more jobs and more resources for our well-being, and it strengthens our opportunities to cooperate with other countries for our own security. Now we need to raise our ambitions in Europe. We need to raise our ambitions in terms of climate, security, the fight against crime, the competitiveness of more jobs and so on. We need to stick together now and keep Europe together in an increasingly troubled world. Political instability threatens both from outside and from within. Then it is important to try to work together for the good of Sweden. Ulf Kristersson's path to power is together with the Swedish Democrats. It is a party that does not really want to be part of the European Union. It is a party that thinks that we should not interfere in countries violating fundamental principles in terms of independent courts, independent media and independent universities. That is the position of the Swedish Democrats. There is also doubt as to their interests in Russia. How do the Moderates believe that a government that Kristersson would lead can stand up for a cohesive EU and pursue Swedish interests in collaboration with the Swedish Democrats, which can also be considerably larger than the Moderates?
i-789d595e82d72703-135	Mr President, I would like to This is what the Socialist party leader who for decades fought against Swedish EU membership says. He felt that EU membership was a threat to Swedish neutrality. He was repeatedly opposed to all of this until one day, almost in a footnote, one day he came up with: Oh, we join the EU too! It's called Social Democratic Renewal. This is also what the Socialist party leader who builds his formation of government on the truly stable European supporters of the Left Party and the Green Party says. Happy birthday! The Prime Minister knows where the Moderates stand in European politics. We were in favour of EU membership before you hardly even knew that Europe was an important part of our proximity. When you devoted yourself to all parts of the world except Europe, we were in favour of Sweden becoming a member of the European Union. It is good that everyone is now in practice in favour of EU membership. That is why I want to have a discussion about what to do with our EU membership, what priorities we should have and what focus we should have. That's where you break.
i-789d595e82d72703-138	Mr President, I would like to It'll be a little bit like sticking a hole in a soufflé. You want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. We now have a right-wing conservative bloc in the Swedish Parliament. The Moderates want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. The views of the Swedish democrats on the EU both know Ulf Kristersson and I. We all know the views of the Swedish democrats on the fundamental values of independent media, independent universities and the rule of law. We know that. It considers the Moderates to be a party to work with on European issues as well. Does Ulf Kristersson see any problems with the Swedish Democrats and their views on the EU?
i-789d595e82d72703-140	Mr President, I would like to I would be happy to have a debate with the Swedish Democrats themselves on the European policy of the Swedish Democrats in the near future. It is probably better than me and the Prime Minister discussing the European policy of the Swedish Democrats. As usual, the Prime Minister wants to discuss the only party he never wants to meet. As long as it's fascinating. In fact, in the last European elections, the Social Democrats wanted it to be about Romanian, Polish and Hungarian domestic politics. That is not what Swedish voters were going to take a position on. These countries have their debate. They make mistakes in a lot of respects. The big difference in our view of Romania, Poland and Hungary is that we have done something about that. We suspended from our group the party that we felt repeatedly violated fundamental European values. What did the Social Democrats do with their Romanian friends? I heard a lot of moralizing about others. I didn't hear any responsibility over my own.
i-789d595e82d72703-144	Mr President and Ulf Kristersson! There is a huge waste of tax revenue in the European Union. There are things that it would be easy to do something about, but nothing is done. The European Parliament is still moving every month between Strasbourg and Brussels. It costs a lot. Much of the agricultural aid goes to billionaires and lords and is sometimes used to reward people, for example in Hungary and the Czech Republic, for political loyalty. The money's running away. At the same time, there is an obvious risk that Sweden's membership fee, which is already around SEK 40 billion, with the long-term budget can be increased by perhaps SEK 15 billion per year. It is money that we really need in our health centres, our preschools and our retirement homes. I believe that the EU must correct the mouth after the lunch and that it is totally unacceptable to increase the Swedish membership fee to the EU. Today, I and Ebba Busch Thor from the Christian Democrats have said together that we are prepared to act in Parliament to see if there is a majority that sets a limit on the government. The limit shall be that the membership fee shall not be increased. And the government has to follow the majority that exists in Parliament. I would now like to invite you, Ulf Kristersson, to take part in producing that proposal and ensure that the bill is not sent to the Swedish taxpayer and welfare without the EU being able to correct the mouth after the lunch. Welcome!
i-789d595e82d72703-148	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt! For once, I broadly agree with Jonas Sjöstedt on a European issue. I am not ashamed of the company at all; on the contrary, I think it is good when you can agree on things even though you probably have different motives behind this. It is good that we are pointing out the misuse of European funds. There are obviously some things to do. Many countries care too little about this. It is obviously a waste to keep commuting between Strasbourg and Brussels in this way. And it is quite clear that the EU's budgetary resources must be redirected from old efforts that were possibly once needed to future tasks that are needed today. On all of this we agree. We also agree that the levy should not increase, as I have just said, when Europe is falling. It cannot be clear that when Britain leaves the EU, we will increase the fee. The Commission's proposal for a new long-term budget is totally unacceptable. We have said this longer than you have said, as far as I know. We have felt this consistent and the whole time. We have demanded that the government now ensure that the fee does not increase. We have called for the government to hook arms with the other countries that are now strong supporters of this very thing. We need to have a clearer common front against those countries that want to increase the levy at the expense of other countries. On all of this, we are in complete agreement. The only thing we possibly do not agree on is now to throw up the veto card, to say immediately that Sweden will veto whatever happens and make itself completely corrupt in the discussion that is going on. I think that would be counterproductive. If you're saying that we should now present a veto, I think that's the wrong way to go. If you mean that we should demand the government to make sure that Sweden does not receive an increase in the EU levy more forcefully than it has until now, we are in full agreement.
i-789d595e82d72703-152	Mr President, I would like to I broadly welcome Ulf Kristersson's response. There is, of course, a requirement for unanimity when you take the long-term budget. This gives Sweden a strong negotiating position. But I don't trust the government. I think it will come back with a strong bill of many billions for the Swedish taxpayer, money that we need in Swedish welfare. We need a parliament that sets clear limits on what the government can do. Ebba Busch Thor and I have been quite open about the fact that we are happy to sit down and formulate this together so that there is something that makes it impossible for the government to come back with a massive increase in the EU membership fee. I see your answer as essentially positive and look forward to us sitting down together and seeing if there is a majority in Parliament and not agreeing to this shock increase in the EU membership fee.
i-789d595e82d72703-154	Mr President, I would like to As Jonas Sjöstedt expresses exactly my position and that of my party, I have no problem with that at all, quite the contrary. My only reservation was now to veto the fact that Sweden cannot participate in discussing the direction of the budget, the priorities of the budget. That would be bad for Sweden. In all other respects, I am fully on board.
i-789d595e82d72703-155	Mr President, I would like to Europe is needed in the world today, perhaps more than ever, to defend democracy, human rights, the principles of the rule of law and women's rights – and not least to combat the climate crisis. International cooperation is important. But with whom do the Moderates cooperate? As a minister, in recent years I have seen with great concern, in EU negotiations following EU negotiations, that important issues such as moving forward with strong climate commitments or finding a common solution to refugee policy are blocked by parties in a few countries, countries that also violate the EU's most fundamental treaties on human rights, freedom of expression, democracy and the rule of law. The Hungarian party Fidesz is perhaps the clearest threat to effective EU cooperation today. You are in the same party as in the European Parliament. Last spring, Ulf Kristersson, you gave Fidesz a timeout from your European party organisation, but you waited to kick them out of your group in the European Parliament with the warning: Follow our recommendations or leave our group! Six months have passed, and Orbán's right-wing nationalist Fidesz is still part of your group. I cannot see that their violations of the EU's statutes and treaties have ceased or that their violations of human rights have been reduced – unfortunately, the other way around. My question is therefore: how do the Moderates justify continued cooperation with a right-wing nationalist party which systematically oppresses its population, dismantles democracy and violates the EU's most fundamental treaty?
i-789d595e82d72703-159	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say – and I say this without every ounce of irony – that it is good that everyone is now in favour of Sweden cooperating with Europe. Welcome to that club! That is very good, because it is not a matter of course. Just recently, it was absolutely not self-evident. Now everyone here has come to the conclusion that European cooperation is needed, that we are doing good together with others, that we can help solve European problems and that Europe is important for Swedish problem-solving. That's very good. Then we must decide what we should have the cooperation for and how we should work together. Then we work Moderates together in the large family EPP, where the dominant force is Angela Merkel's CDU. It's a good company. That's where we have influence. We can influence Europe's future there. Then there are in each party group parties that act in a way that we ourselves do not like. The big difference is that we are doing something about it. When Poland, Hungary and Romania are clearly breaking fundamental rules, a party group is doing something about that. By overwhelming majority, we suspended the Hungarian party this spring, and now the analysis of what conditions and changes are required if it is to be welcomed back in our political cooperation. I did not see this happening in other party groups. We did what had to be done. We do not take responsibility for what Fidesz does in Hungary, but we take responsibility for who collaborates in our political family.
i-789d595e82d72703-162	Mr President, I would like to Should a party in our group, the Green Group in the European Parliament, have behaved as Fidesz does in the EPP, it would have gone out with its head ahead; I can promise Ulf Kristersson. You gave Fidesz timeout. Ulf Kristersson is trying to give the impression that you have put them outside the heat. After all, they are in your group in the European Parliament, and you have not punished them at all. You have even rewarded them with important positions as vice-chairmen of several committees and responsibility for the High Level Group on Gender Equality and Diversity. The European Commission is currently suing Hungary for a law which is bizarrely called the Stop Soros Act, which criminalises the person who helps asylum seekers and punishes it with a year's imprisonment. It rejects migrants in transit zones, where no food is given to them! This is the group with which you are working. Can you explain, Ulf Kristersson, why it is so important to continue working with them?
i-789d595e82d72703-166	Mr President, I would like to I just explained what we did. If I remember correctly, it was with the votes of 193 against 3 or possibly 4 that the EPP, as our political group is called, took the decision to suspend Fidesz from cooperation pending a final decision because that is what the statutes say. You might have had other statutes, but that's what our statutes say. We made the decision that came upon us. Other party groups did not make corresponding decisions in their own country.
i-789d595e82d72703-167	Mr President, I would like to It blows cold, bitter winds over Sweden. Municipalities are on the brink of ruin, for the money is not enough. Gang violence, explosions, and other serious crime spread like wildfire across the country, and the police are not enough. The elderly and the sick, those who need support and care most, do not receive the help to which each of them is entitled. There's not enough staff. At this point, Mr President, every healthy and rational thinking person should see what it takes. The fact that we must prioritise our own well-being and our own society should be obvious. But what are the left-wing liberals doing? Yes, Mr President, we continue to bow before Brussels. One is for superficial, unsubstantiated rhetoric that now the Prime Minister and his friends are going to fight for us to pay less money to this colossus. It is suggested that now is the time for some kind of constructive action after an endless period of mismanagement. We've heard this before. We have heard how the left-wing liberals, who have always paid more or less tribute to a Europe that is growing ever bigger, are now going to Brussels and beating their fists at the table. But there's never going to be anything of it. At the same time, we see gigantic challenges in our own well-being. Last year, Sweden paid almost SEK 40 billion in contributions to the EU and received back around SEK 13 billion in various subsidies. That gives us a net payment of 27 billion. And now, then, the EU wants to impose an additional EUR 15 billion in fees on us. Since joining the European Union, we have paid the European Union hundreds of billions net. We Swedish democrats, Mr President, will at all times be working towards a substantial reduction in Sweden's EU contribution. European cooperation is important. However, it must be limited to solving common problems together, particularly cross-border crime. Europe needs a strong conservative voice that changes Europe from within. We need to get away from the shackles. We need to get away from the almost manic idea of interfering more and more with the policies of the individual Member States. We see in the area by area how the EU wants to take command of matters over which we in Sweden have a decision-making power, and also in the future should have a decision-making power over. A clear example of this is the idea of a European minimum wage, which the new Commission has launched. This type of attack on the Swedish model we Swedish democrats will show strong opposition to. The Swedish model for the labour market has proved to be sustainable and robust over time, and we will ensure that. It is a good order we have in Sweden. And to be honest, Mr President, is there one good argument that Swedish wages for Swedish employees should be set by bureaucrats in Brussels? It must be realised that the self-determination of the nation states is at the heart of a future prosperous Europe. It is simply the individual countries that know best what is best suited for their citizens. That is precisely why power should also lie there, and here, in the individual Member States. We will never lose sight of that basic principle. We will not remain silent while Sweden turns into a obedient state into Brussels. Mr President, I would like to Let me also take this opportunity to talk a little about the insecurity that is spreading here in Sweden but also throughout Europe. It is difficult not to link this largely to wide-open borders and non-existent controls. The number of vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas in Sweden has grown in number since 2014. Violence in criminal environments has escalated. With regard to the number of blasts, shootings and gang killings, comparable European countries cannot be found with a similar situation or development. The growing number of serious crimes weighs heavily on a police authority that has been underfunded since 2014 and has lacked sufficient investment such as trained police officers and other reinforcements. Although gang shootings have been an escalating problem throughout this government's time in power, proposals that could really break gang crime have been countered and delayed. Now the Danish Government has established border controls against Sweden to combat gang crime and reduce the risk of terrorist crime. Mr President, we have completely failed to expel several people on terror. Instead, they have been released into freedom on our streets. When a mother is executed on an open street with her child in her arms, when children and young people are executed, and when blasts, shootings, and murders have become commonplace, a thorough self - examination is required. Such self - examination is not at all in the hands of this government. The breakdown of gang conversations can well exemplify the government's attitude and inability to cope with social developments. The limit is reached for how much you can be allowed to fail in your mission. It is our view, Mr President, that the Minister for Justice and Migration has just failed in his mission. The Swedish democrats are calling in accordance with Chapter 13. Section 4 provides that the Riksdag shall declare that Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson does not enjoy the trust of the Riksdag.
i-789d595e82d72703-182	Mr President, I would like to We continue to combat serious crime and its causes, one of which is unemployment. No one should have to experience shootings or insecurity, no matter where you live or stay. The drugs are to be removed from our streets. EU cooperation is also an important part of this. I therefore thought that we were gathered here to talk about how we can develop Sweden's position in the EU and the EU's work to address, among other things, security issues. Now I understand very well that Jimmie Åkesson would rather engage in an internal political game in the right-wing conservative constellation than expose a complete lack of European policy. Then you can devote time in this Chamber to what Åkesson does. It could also be devoted to asking what we are actually going to do. We now see a clear right-wing conservative bloc in the Swedish parliament; it is Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats. Having the decisive influence over Sweden and sitting in the same meeting room as Germany's head of government, France's head of state and other heads of government and state is a huge responsibility. Sweden has high credibility. We are to be trusted, we are at the forefront and we stand up for values and human rights. Sweden did not tremble about our affiliation when Russia annexed Crimea. Similarly, we stand up for the independence of universities and courts as this is being challenged across Europe. We are pushing for employees' rights, and we are leading the work on climate change. Now the Swedish Democrats want to take place here. Let me remind you of the following. No other parliamentary party has found it so difficult to draw a clear line and mark against the Russian interest. No other parliamentary party reserves its right when we in the European Union are to demand that all Member States actually comply with our values.
i-789d595e82d72703-187	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying, not least for Stefan Löfven, that he is allowed to sit in the same room as the great world leaders and talk to them. I'm sure it's a lot of fun. It is also good that this government continues to fight serious crime. But I am a little worried, Mr President, when we say this: we continue to fight serious crime. That has been done for quite some time now, and it has not produced any results whatsoever. On the contrary – the only result it has possibly produced is that it has become worse. A complete inability to deal with the situation has been demonstrated. That the Prime Minister then chooses to call this an internal political game in the right-wing conservative constellation may stand for him. I demand political responsibility. I think it is my job as an opposition politician to declare, when the government not only mismanages its job but completely fails to act and does what is necessary to address the serious situation we have in Sweden today in this House, that we do not have confidence in the work of this government, and especially for the responsible minister. It is not an internal political game – it is my duty, my duty and my damn responsibility to demand that Stefan Löfven dismiss an incompetent minister. If he does not want to do so, the Riksdag must do so; that is my firm opinion. It's not a game. This is serious, and it is taking responsibility, Mr President.
i-789d595e82d72703-190	Mr President, I would like to It is a game, and it is populism of the very lowest quality. Since we took office, 205 proposals from the Ministry of Justice have been made at government meetings. These are 52 laws – punitive measures, other legislative changes and new laws – aimed directly at organised crime. They are designed by the head of that department, named Morgan Johansson, and have my full support. We're gonna keep going. What this is really about is that Åkesson is completely empty of EU policy here. You do not want to talk about Europe, because you have no European policy. It is as simple as that, and that is why it is so convenient for Åkesson to stand here and talk about something completely different from European policy. It's boring, but then you can't take any responsibility either.
i-789d595e82d72703-192	Mr President, I would like to This is yet another example of sweeping judgments that are really completely unsubstantiated. We are doing work within the framework of the EU Board here in Parliament. We are working in the European Parliament and in a wide range of international institutions in which we are represented. Stefan Löfven knows this very well. The fact that one chooses to come up with this kind of sweeping reviews instead of concrete criticism aims to shift the focus away from what is actually important. I agree with what Ulf Kristersson said in his speech earlier today: this debate, given the situation, should perhaps not be about Europe in the first place, but about the situation in the streets and squares of Sweden. I think it might have been more appropriate. Now that is not the case, but I reserve the right to talk about what I think is important when I stand in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament and debate. I have the support of my constituents to do that.
i-789d595e82d72703-195	Mr President, I would like to It is fundamentally very good for Sweden that even the Swedish Democrats now want our country to be part of the EU. I think it is a strength for Sweden that all or almost all parties are behind our membership. The Left Party recently made a similar political change. It is good for Swedish ability to act in the EU that there is no doubt that Sweden has a place there. It can create meaningful debate about what Sweden wants with membership. We should probably see more of that debate, and that also requires a measure of commitment to membership itself. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is once again – I have asked about this question in the past – about how the Swedish Democrats view responsibility for the EU's external border. If the EU is to be able to combat terrorist threats and cope with migratory waves, it must strengthen the protection of the external border. I believe that almost everyone who has seen what has happened in Europe in recent years agrees. But, unfortunately, in every vote in the European Parliament, the Swedish Democrats have voted against exactly this: no to the extension of what we call Frontex in bureaucratic Swedish, that is, the EU's external border guard, no to new tools for return and enhanced cooperation on this and no to 10 000 new coastal and border guards. It would have been the greatest strengthening of the EU's capabilities in modern times. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is therefore a little more precise than last time. Can we expect that the Swedish Democrats will continue to contribute to strengthening the protection of the EU's external border?
i-789d595e82d72703-199	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the precise question. The precise answer is yes. If you are going to complicate it a little more – politics is often more complicated than yes or no – it is a fact that we are fundamentally in favour of cooperation around the external border and Frontex. However, on a few occasions we have chosen not to vote in favour of proposals that have been tabled, including what Ulf Kristersson mentions about 10 000 border guards. It is not linked to the fact that we are fundamentally against it. On the contrary, it is linked to the fact that once the proposal was put on the table – when it had been compromised and destroyed, not least by left-wing liberal forces within the framework of European policy – it was so watered down that we could no longer support it. We were on the track all the way up to the fact that it was on the table. I'm happy to discuss these things. I know that our parliamentarians in Brussels are also happy to sit down with other Swedish politicians and parliamentarians and discuss how we can do it better and in the right way. So the answer is yes, but there are reasons why we have so far chosen not to support the concrete proposals that have been put forward. I think these are reasonable reasons.
i-789d595e82d72703-203	Mr President, I would like to I think that's good. There are probably many of us who quite often think that the European decisions that are taken are not the optimal ones. It is a respectful attitude to fight for what you think is right but realize that you will not always win. That is not a strong reason for getting involved a lot too. Sometimes I think there is a Swedish approach where you say: If we do not get exactly what we want, then we want nothing at all. So let's say no. There are sometimes strong reasons to say no firmly, but one must also show a commitment to pursue the line one believes in. I think it would be a good idea for the Swedish democrats to demonstrate more clearly their commitment to making the EU as good as possible and not always just to show their scepticism towards the things that do not work well. Similarly, I believe that the Social Democrats would be well advised to show their commitment to the major, central issues, not to the peripheral issues that are not in Sweden's interest. But I welcome the answer. We have more to do with the EU's external border.
i-789d595e82d72703-208	Mr President, I would like to The main argument for us is that the last Frontex vote was that the final product wanted, for example, to make expulsions more difficult and to do things that were actually counterproductive. Another argument I have heard was that it was one of the last votes with the old Parliament. The issue is likely to be raised again by the new Parliament, and then it is possible that we have a different position. Let's see. I welcome the discussion. One of the most important tasks of the European Union or of European cooperation, however it may be, is to work to guard the external border and to guarantee the citizens of our part of the world security and security. I and my party are happy to participate in this work.
i-789d595e82d72703-210	Mr President, I would like to More than 8,000 jobs in S verige are threatened by a harsh Brexit, according to a report from the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. In our small businesses there is growing concern about how Brexit and the UK's actions will affect their activities. You may wait with investments and wonder if you really dare to recruit in view of how uncertain the situation is. The Swedish forestry and timber industry flagged that a British withdrawal affects the industry's companies. Swedish farmers flag that everyday life will be more complicated with more checks and formalities. Arla describes the situation that Brexit has put Sweden and Europe in as frustrating. Concern, uncertainty and difficulty in interpreting the future are rarely particularly good signals for companies and jobs. Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats have been eager in the past that Sweden should also follow the example of Britain and do a svexit. But that particular proposal is too much to stand for. Let us therefore leave svexit and instead focus on Brexit and Brexit's impact on Swedish companies and jobs. There are still many of us who remember Jimmie Åkesson's cheering for the Brexit vote and how a British withdrawal would be a snap on the nose of the elite. And we remember what it looked like afterwards, with Rule Britannia in the Swedish Democrats telephone switchboard and party night at the Grand Hôtel with Nigel Farage. My question to Jimmie Åkesson – Åkesson is a self-appointed friend of Sweden – is therefore: How many Swedish jobs does he think it is worth sacrificing for Nigel Farage and Boris Johnson to get the elite on their noses?
i-789d595e82d72703-215	Mr President, I would like to I do not think it is reasonable to sacrifice Swedish jobs in any context at any time. I think it is wrong to sacrifice Swedish jobs. A decision that has been taken in a referendum – not in Sweden but in another country, which is the country that it concerns and whose population has taken the decision – must be respected. I understand that this is not the first time that the European elite and the left-wing liberal establishment around Europe are getting their noses snapped in a referendum. We have seen it in Ireland, for example. We saw it in Denmark in the 1990s. We've seen it in Spain, Holland and so on. You are in favour of referendums, direct democracy and so on, but when you do not get the result you had expected, you start making a mess. You start fighting and making demands for a new referendum because people voted wrong, because people can't reasonably think so really. People just can't think that, because they're not stupid in the head! That is the vision that I am strongly opposed to. This is what I think. It is not unproblematic for Britain to choose now to do what it is likely to do. It will have consequences for other Member States within the EU. Then our job is to do what we can to maintain as aggressively as possible good relations with the United Kingdom. Instead of playing in the game from the very top Europeans, who really want to discourage Britain's withdrawal, Sweden should be more aggressive in creating and preparing for good relations with the UK in the future. I believe that the government and its cooperation parties have a particular responsibility which they have so far not taken.
i-789d595e82d72703-219	Mr President, I would like to When you smiled at Jimmie Åkesson at first you realized that this was a really sore toe. Brexit threatens Swedish jobs and the activities of Swedish companies. According to reports from business organisations, it risks making thousands of Swedish employees unemployed. It is at risk of affecting Swedish farmers negatively. Companies in the Swedish forest industry are adversely affected, and Brexit results in increased costs for companies like Astra Zeneca. I do not question the referendums of other countries and not even the referendums of Sweden. They should be respected. I question the rhetoric of Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats. What in all this that I just listed did Åkesson celebrate before and after the Brexit vote 2016? Does he still think it was right to pay tribute to the results of the referendum, despite the obvious impact on Sweden, Swedish jobs and Swedish companies? Or is Åkesson prepared to admit that irresponsible populism has now had negative effects on Swedish jobs and Swedish companies?
i-789d595e82d72703-222	Mr President, I would like to In fact, what Annie Lööf is doing is exactly what she says she is not doing, namely questioning another country's decision in a referendum. I find that regrettable. I respect the referendum, and I think that Sweden as a nation and state must respect it, like the situation and do what we can to maintain good relations despite what has been decided in the UK, so that we minimise the possible negative effects that Annie Lööf is talking about, i.e. that it can affect Swedish companies and so on. We can do that if the political will exists and if the political will is stronger than the fear of the prestige loss of the European elite and the European Union's enemies. Then we can handle this. That requires political will. The question is then– it is not a question for Annie Lööf, because she has no opportunity to answer, but it is a rhetorical question: Is the political will greater than the desire to maintain prestige?
i-789d595e82d72703-224	Mr President and Jimmie Åkesson! In January, there was a vote in the European Parliament. It was about whether countries that do not comply with the rule of law could be punished with withdrawn EU aid. These are important things such as independent justice, free media and other things that are central to a democracy. All Swedish members voted in favour of this except the members of the Swedish Democrats. They did not vote in favour of this. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is this: is it not quite reasonable, for example, to be able to suspend agricultural aid or regional aid if a country violates fundamental democratic and constitutional principles?
i-789d595e82d72703-226	Mr President, I would like to I think it is reasonable to look generally at, for example, agricultural aid and other aid, which is in principle a net contribution from Sweden to other EU countries. I think we should do this every day and every week, especially on the part of this congregation. When it comes to the EU's powers and opportunities to interfere in the internal policies of other countries, when Jonas Sjöstedt describes it in the way he does now, I can, in principle, think that it is reasonable for us to mark in any way whether it is the case that some individual Member State is doing something that we think is constitutionally or constitutionally disgusting or that is in some way unequivocally violating the international conventions of which we are all bound. I don't think that's unreasonable. But it's not that simple. I would say that Sweden is Sweden. Hungary is Hungary, Romania is Romania, Poland is Poland and which other countries are now criticised in these contexts. We are all members of the European Union, and it is clear that within it we must in some way be able to have conditions that we agree on. But there is a great deal more to it, Mr President, in order for Europe to get involved in things that are not Europe's competence. It is the very basic attitude that we have with regard to these issues. However, I can think that Sweden, for example, can indicate if you think it is reasonable. But I think it is unreasonable for Europe to do so. I do not think that is what European cooperation should be aimed at. European cooperation should not be aimed at uniformity, at entering individual countries and at telling them that you are now doing the wrong thing, and now you are going to do the right thing, otherwise we are punishing you. I think that is the wrong starting point for European cooperation, because it does not call for cooperation. On the contrary, it calls for fragmentation, and we do not want any more of that in Europe today.
i-789d595e82d72703-231	Mr President and Jimmie Åkesson! That was a long and furry answer. Maybe, maybe not, maybe anyway, but I don't think so. About that, I think you can sum up Jimmie Åkesson's answer. It is not true, however, that this is not the EU's competence. After all, there is a special procedure, the Article 7 procedure, and there are references to the relevant conventions that set out things about human rights. It says something when Jimmie Åkesson doesn't want you to live up to those very parts of the treaty or maybe don't know if he wants to. I therefore have another question: does Jimmie Åkesson think that Hungary is living up to the rule of law today?
i-789d595e82d72703-234	Mr President, I would like to To answer Jonas Sjöstedt's question simply, yes, in principle you do. On the other hand, there is certainly reason to criticise certain individual things in detail. There is certainly reason to criticise in detail, for example, corruption and other things that occur not only in Hungary but also in many other countries with the background of Hungary. I don't have a problem doing that. I think we should do it. When other countries in our part of the world somehow deviate from what we think is fundamental, we should be able to criticise. But I think it has to be us who do it. It should not be a pressure that is being exerted within the framework of the European Union, because I argue that this is not the European Union's job. I do not think it is up to the European Union to interfere in this respect with the constitution of individual countries or the ability to shape its own policy and society. The EU should be a cooperation, not a supranational pressure.
i-789d595e82d72703-238	Mr President, I would like to The European Community and European organised cooperation are about freedom, about peace, about democracy, about our own influence and about our future prosperity. When I listen to Jimmie Åkesson, Mr President, it is clear that he is newly saved in terms of European cooperation. Ever since Jimmie Åkesson stepped under the banners of the Swedish Democrats when he began his political career, he has counteracted this cooperation, which he contemptibly calls colossus where Sweden is a obedient state and where everything will be greatly reduced. My question is basically: Is Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats for European cooperation? The background to this question is more important than ever. We are seeing a world development in which the American administration is rolling back its strong liberal ambitions. In this vacuum that arises on the world stage, other forces enter. We see Russia becoming more aggressive with its influence operations and military armaments. We see Chinese interests buying up businesses and making infrastructure investments across Europe. It's ports in Greece, and preferably you want to buy parts of Sweden too. We must be vigilant about that. We stand strong together; alone we fall. My question is simply: What changes does Jimmie Åkesson want to make to strengthen the core of European work for peace, for jobs and for the well-being of citizens in Sweden but also throughout Europe?
i-789d595e82d72703-244	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my introductory speech, respect for the autonomy and self-determination of the nation states is a prerequisite for this strong Europe that can, in the long term, hold together and work together to deal with common problems. The development from this towards more supranationality, more centralisation and more rigidity is a danger to a prosperous, long-term European cooperation. I'm not fresh in any way. I have been in favour of European cooperation for as long as I can remember, because every thinking, intelligent person understands that we need to work with other countries to solve problems that are common. But just because you say you are in favour of a certain type of cooperation, Mr President, that does not mean that you are in favour of everything that the European Union is doing today. Europe is doing a lot that it should not do. The EU should focus more on what we have talked about before, that is, common border guards. There should be more cooperation on strengthening security and security and on problems that cannot be linked to a single country, such as environmental problems, problems in the Baltic Sea and climate and energy issues. That is what Europe should be an arena for, but that does not mean that everything that it does should be at European level. That's where we split up. I have asked the former leader of the Johan Pehrson party on a number of occasions whether there is any area over which the Liberals are not prepared to give the EU power. I still haven't got an answer to that. That's where we split up. I want the EU to have less power than it has today. Liberals want the EU to have more power – preferably power over just everything. I think that is a problem, because then we do not have respect for the autonomy and self-determination of the nation states, which I believe is a prerequisite for this to work in the long term.
i-789d595e82d72703-250	Mr President, I would like to So Jimmie Åkesson has been in favour of EU membership all her life. It's amazing! You have been in a party that has said no to this since I started having school debates. It was quite a long time ago, as you can see. You've said no, no, no. The Swedish democrats have said that no, we should not have that, it is a colossus, we become an obedient state, it is European chauvinism and we shall protect the Swedish. But now you're in favour of membership, all of a sudden. The whole idea of that membership is that we solve problems together. We can't solve crime alone. We cannot solve the climate threat alone and the disaster that is staring at us. With regard to our prosperity in Europe and European values of openness and respect for each other, we must work together. If we do not stick together and make joint decisions and move forward, there are other interests that are quite unpleasant, often quite nationalistic and quite populist. We Liberals do not want to see that.
i-789d595e82d72703-253	I would remind you quietly that we in this House tend to speak through the President and not to say that you are right across the floor.
i-789d595e82d72703-254	Mr President, I would like to This is the view of the Liberals and, above all, the Liberals. It is not possible to debate these issues with the left-wing liberals, because they always equate cooperation in Europe with that of the European Union. I have not said that I have been in favour of EU membership all my life, but I have said that I have been in favour of European cooperation for as long as I can remember. I do, of course, because I understand that we need to work together. That does not mean that I believe that the European Union, as it is today, and above all what it has developed into, is the right way to cooperate. But what I have accepted in recent years, however, is that the EU is currently what exists for cooperation. I can do it in two ways. Either I can completely oppose cooperation and say that we do not want it, that it is bad, or I can try to be constructive and change cooperation into something I can accept. That's what I do, believe in, and believe is good.
i-789d595e82d72703-257	Mr President, I would like to A recurring theme from the Swedish Democrats is how best to look after Sweden's interests, i.e. that we should not share our assets unless we get something back. But at the same time, the Swedish Democrats in the climate debate have been clear that Sweden should not go ahead and take greater responsibility for the climate, but instead someone else should make more efforts elsewhere. The Swedish Democrats consistently vote against any proposal that entails increased climate efforts both in Sweden and in the EU. The consequence of this is that the EU remains in an energy import dependency. Today, there are net imports of fossil fuels to a level of 55%. Mainly, the oil and gas come from Russia. Mr President, I would like to I wonder on what grounds the Swedish Democrats want to keep Sweden in an oil dependence, for example by voting against ambitious climate policy, to reduce petrol tax in Sweden and to oppose renewable fuels and energy sources. What makes Jimmie Åkesson a priority to continue to depend on and promote oil interests in the Middle East and Russia, when we can make ourselves self-sufficient in energy in Europe and in Sweden? How does this fit in with the interests of SD and other so-called nationalist parties, that is, that SEK 3,300 billion each year goes to pay fossil fuels to countries in the Middle East and to Russia? Only to Russia goes SEK 1 000 billion each year. Jimmie Åkesson talks about the membership fee, which is 40 billion– that's a lot of money– but shouldn't we be independent of imports from these states?
i-789d595e82d72703-260	Mr President, I would like to I believe that every party in this House is working to reduce oil dependence and, in the long term, to make us independent of oil, especially oil from the rogue states that Isabella Lövin highlights. But it is not my party, Mr President, that is countering this work; it is the government. It is the government that is destroying a fully functioning climate-neutral energy system, power generation, and making us dependent on less stable forces that will inevitably make us dependent on imports of precisely gas and oil. Then it is beyond my comprehension, Mr President, how you can stand in this House and be proud of this and then accuse me and others of doing what you actually do yourself. I believe, Mr President, that Sweden can play an important role both in a European and in a global perspective in terms of reducing emissions. But it is not by primarily reducing emissions in Sweden that we save the climate or reduce emissions globally. I have never understood, Mr President, the nationalism of the Green Party and some other parties when it comes to climate policy. In every other context, one is opposed to nationalism, and one is opposed to nations at all. But when it comes to climate policy, it is so important where the emission reductions take place. It is even so important that you are prepared to make a decent life impossible for people who live in large parts of our country, because in Sweden we are going to reduce emissions. Mr President, I have a question for Isabella Lövin. Is it most effective to reduce emissions from, for example, cars in the interior of Norrland or to reduce emissions in China?
i-789d595e82d72703-264	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Swedish Democrats are nationalistic except when it comes to taking responsibility for the future and the climate. I think solidarity is good, but I have no solidarity with oil interests. The economic interests of oil and fossil fuels are astronomical. Saudi Arabia is the world's largest oil exporter. Recently we heard about the Saudi-owned oil company Saudi Aramco, which is about to be placed on the stock market. They have in 2018 had 356 billion dollars in revenue. It's more than any other company on Earth. It is from these oil giants that we have to buy petrol. In what way, Jimmie Åkesson, does it benefit the ordinary Swede in the countryside to be stuck in expensive, unprofitable and uncertain fossil dependence with oil and gas from the Middle East and Russia?
i-789d595e82d72703-267	Mr President, I would like to If Isabella Lövin wants to go into the interior of Norrland and try to find oil there, she is happy to do so. I don't know if it would be so much better. Speaking of Isabella Lövin's question, it is good for no one to depend on these companies or rogue states, as Isabella Lövin talks about. On the other hand, it puts people in our country at a disadvantage. It's about ordinary people of flesh and blood who need to get to work, who need to pick up the kids in kindergarten, drive to football practice or whatever it may be. They are affected – disadvantaged – by the fact that transport is more expensive, but they still have to transport themselves. That's the problem. I can answer the question I asked Isabella Lövin: It is more effective to reduce emissions in China than to do so from cars in the interior of Norrland. The climate is global. The climate problem is global. It is not connected locally, and it has little to do with Norrland's hinterland.
i-6nmjbEGJ9ncAWuqn2XSahZ	During the plenary session, Jimmie Åkesson, the Swedish Democrats, has put forward a motion of censure against Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, Minister of Migration, the Social Democrats. According to Chapter 13. Section 4, the form of government shall be applied for by at least one tenth of the members of the Riksdag to be admissible. This means that at least 35 Members should be behind the motion. The writing submitted by Jimmie Åkesson shows that the requirements of the government form are met. The profession is now being postponed for the first time. My view is that when Parliament's confidence in a minister is called into question, that question should be examined as soon as it can happen. It is an important principle that such a question is not unanswered for a longer time than necessary. The examination of the application will therefore take place on Friday 15 November at 2.30 p.m. 9:00 a.m.
i-789d595e82d72703-272	Mr President, I would like to 25 years ago we chose to say yes to a Swedish EU membership. I'm glad we took that step. The EU and Swedish membership of the EU are worth defending. The EU has made Sweden stronger in many ways, and Sweden has made the EU stronger in many ways. However, if, in another 25 years' time, the Community between the countries of the European Union is still to be a force for change, improvement and hope, we must look to the future. We must work even harder for a green, democratic and free Europe. Environmental and climate challenges take no account of borders. Only a braver and greener Europe can give us the opportunity to achieve both Swedish and common global environmental objectives. It is about stopping the proliferation of toxic chemicals and the littering of our seas, reducing emissions and protecting biodiversity. That is why the Center Party has been the driving force in tightening up the EU's common climate and environmental work. We pushed for the new President of the European Union to pledge A European Green Deal. This is something to be presented during her first 100 days, with a clear instruction on how the EU can achieve the goal of a climate-neutral continent by 2050. That promise must now also be filled with concrete content. We need to take even harder hold of the plastic in our seas and streams. We must tighten up the ban on plastic disposables and ensure that even more products are covered by the ban over the next five years. We must ensure that we legislate to stop both microplastics in hygiene articles and other harmful substances in products that we use in our everyday lives. We need to put in an even higher gear to reduce emissions, both through higher ambitions and through sharper tools. There, the EU's common climate law is an important step that makes it clear what applies – if the Member States do not achieve the goals we have set ourselves, it will have tangible consequences. We need to broaden the EU's emissions trading system to include shipping, and we need to start auctioning aviation's allowances instead of distributing them free of charge. For us, it goes without saying that any plan that starts or lands within the EU should be part of the scheme and be involved in paying, as well as raising the price of allowances within the EU by introducing a price floor. But we are not building a greener Europe with only bans and tougher rules – on the contrary. A prerequisite for a greener Europe is growth, business and innovation. That is why we need to invest in green innovations and in those companies that change and dare to take precedence over, among other things, the new generation of environmental technologies for negative emissions. The Green Voice of the Center Party has been involved in laying the foundations for the most ambitious environmental and climate policy so far in Sweden. We have shown how Sweden can be a green leader in the EU, and we have sat at the negotiating tables in the work of also making the EU a green role model globally. Our vote for a greener Europe will never stop. Madam President, I would like Our voice is also heard loud and clear in the fight for a free and democratic Europe. History has taught us that anyone who believes in the power and strength of liberal democracy must also be prepared to defend it against those who want something quite different and who see liberalism and liberal values as their main enemy. The EU is a manifestation of what liberal democracies can achieve together. That is why Vladimir Putin and Viktor Orbán are fighting Europe, and that is why the Center Party is so clearly standing up for European cooperation. In the fight against these dark forces, the rhetoric of transparency must also be combined with sharp political proposals. The Center Party has proposed several changes to safeguard transparency and the equal value of people within the European Union. When the rights and freedoms of LGBT people are restricted and there are still countries within the EU that do not recognise same-sex marriages or partnerships, the consequence is that freedom of movement does not apply to everyone. That is unacceptable. The Center Party wants new legislation at EU level that guarantees the free movement of all. The law shall prevent Member States from discriminating against LGBTQ persons who are married or have entered into partnerships and who wish to benefit from free movement. Spouses or spouses in same-sex marriages should never be denied the social security and tax benefits to which other EU citizens are entitled. If you, as a Member State of the European Union, are unable to live up to these obvious facts – if you restrict people's mobility and freedom, politicise courts, silence individual journalists and restrict freedom of the press – there must be consequences. We can no longer look at a harsh right-wing populism trying to subvert its own citizens and, by extension, threaten the whole of European cooperation. The Center Party wants to put a democratic lock on the EU budget so that payments of EU aid can be stopped according to established criteria on the principles of the rule of law. If the EU is to be able seriously to continue to speak for the liberal democracies in the world, it must also stand strong economically, Madam President. Removing barriers to trade, connecting people and understanding the role of businesses in building a prosperous Europe is a central part of the Union's history. That is also what must guide us forward. In times of concern, more and more voices are being heard against EU cooperation. Powers in Europe attract with promises that solitude would strengthen its own country. But alone is not strong. Whoever screams the loudest isn't always right. We don't need any more of Boris Johnson's angry Hulk. As he put it a while ago: The more angry he gets, the stronger he gets. Rather, we need more responsible, liberal and green forces to take Europe forward. Together with the growing crowd of optimistic, green and liberal sister parties that are gaining ground across the European continent, the Center Party will fight for the EU to be a free lighthouse for the rest of the world and show that the way forward is democracy, a market economy and climate responsibility. Together, we will continue to move towards a green, democratic and free Europe.
i-789d595e82d72703-290	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, the New York Times published an astonishing report on the EU's agricultural policy and how it is exploited and abused, one must say, in several countries. For example, they point out that the Hungarian government distributes large land properties to those who are politically loyal to Viktor Orbán while others are punished. They also point to land grabbing – what is called land grabbs – in Bulgaria and Slovakia, where small farmers are squeezed out by mafia-like methods and where there are large conglomerates or people with political contacts who receive these very extensive agricultural subsidies. In the Czech Republic, the Prime Minister receives hundreds of millions of dollars in agricultural aid, and he is a billionaire. He has become rich not least in somewhat questionable business in connection with privatisations and other things. This shows a systemic error in the EU's agricultural policy. It would not be so difficult to do anything about it; a ceiling could be set on how much each person or farm can receive in support of the common agricultural budget. The European Commission has also developed such a model. That would make it very difficult to act in this way and abuse agricultural aid for political purposes as is happening now. Is the Center Party to set such a roof?
i-789d595e82d72703-295	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt talks about a very important area, namely how we deal with our common tax money and how we should protect the EU's funds in order to become strong in terms of competitiveness and, for example, in terms of green industries. For the Center Party, we primarily want to ensure that Swedish countryside and Swedish farmers do not pay for Brexit – this is an important part. As regards the content of the EU's agricultural policy, we also want it to be more in return, that is to say, to be paid for the work that is being done for the climate, for the environment and for biodiversity. This is something that is important and which I know Swedish farmers also think is important. It is true that, for example, the Czech Republic and Prime Minister Babiš have used this money incorrectly. Control and sanctions must be improved. This should be used correctly. I know that our party in the European Parliament, Alde, is now investigating the actions of the Ano – as the party is called – in this. I think that's reasonable. The funds available shall be used correctly.
i-789d595e82d72703-299	Madam President, I would like 80% of EU agricultural aid goes to 20% of the beneficiaries. It is particularly beneficial for large lords of goods and farms. That is why I regret the fact that Annie Lööf avoided answering the question of setting a ceiling on aid. This would be effective in tackling the abuse, for example from the multi-billion-dollar Czech army that makes so much EU money available. But sometimes no answer is also an answer. I therefore have another question. I agree with much of what was said from the speaker's chair by Annie Lööf on the climate issue. But a very simple thing is to remove the EU subsidies that go to activities that actually destroy the climate, for example, to build new motorways or to beef production. As long as the EU provides direct financial support for emissions, it is counterproductive. Perhaps Annie Lööf would consider doing this at least?
i-789d595e82d72703-303	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt stands here smiling and thinks it's a bit fun when he proposes that Swedish nut farmers should not continue to receive support to be able to conduct competitive food production. It's amazing! We must be able to combine active climate responsibility, ultimately fossil-free food production, with keeping our landscapes open, defending biodiversity and defending the green industries in Sweden but also in other countries. Here Sweden is an example. For the Center Party, it is important to protect both large and small farms. That's why we're not interested in putting this specific roof. But we are interested in criteria, controls and sanctions if we do not follow criteria. Above all, we think it is important to be able to see that without the green industries that exist in Sweden and in the rest of the EU, we do not achieve our environmental and climate goals, and they are important to defend.
i-789d595e82d72703-306	Madam President, I would like The European Union and its Member States are facing major challenges in the coming years. The view of the Left Party is that the European Union does not function in a way that meets these challenges. The European Union must change. We see a dramatic increase in inequality in many EU countries. It creates social uncertainty. In several EU countries we see a dramatic decline in the population. These are, for example, absolutely astonishing forecasts for countries such as Lithuania and Bulgaria in the future. The EU is doing a great deal in the field of climate change, but that is not enough. You need to do a lot more. We see insecurity in the labour market, not least for people working in other EU countries. We see an EU budget where money goes to large lords and farms instead of being used in the best possible way. The European Union must change, and it must change properly. The Left Party has a number of suggestions as to how this change is to take place. We believe that the direction of economic policy, as prescribed by the European Union, must change. In the context of the financial crisis, we saw how the EU primarily saved banks and banks' owners, leaving both the welfare and ordinary people who became unemployed in a number of crisis countries. It can't save banks but let young people go unemployed. It was wise for Sweden to reject membership of the monetary union. We should stick to it. This increases our ability to sustain employment and safeguard well-being. Then Sweden will not join a banking union that is directly linked to monetary union. We believe that the EU should do more for the climate. It is time to have plans to phase out the dependence on fossil fuels, for example, that cars on fossil fuels should no longer be sold within the European Union after a certain date. An important decision was taken the other day – or almost – that the European Investment Bank should finally stop lending for fossil projects. The EU must, first and foremost, stop making mistakes. But it must also mean that the EU budget is changed in such a way that no subsidies go to what actually creates the climate problem. Instead, the EU must be prepared to help countries such as Poland, which are facing a very wide-ranging transition when old energy systems have to be dismantled and new ones developed. If we're gonna make it through this, things have to change. In essence, it is also a question of the European Union's treaties taking the internal market, the right of businesses to sell, always first. We believe that in modern European cooperation, the climate and social rights must go first. This is modern cooperation. It is not least clear when we see how the labour market works in the European Union. The Left Party is in order to be able to work in each other's countries. We want to make it easier for people to study and work in other European countries. Today, however, we see people who travel and work systematically being exploited in many places. There has been a discussion here on the social pillar and a discussion on minimum wages, and I am pleased that all parties seem to be against minimum wages. I think it is a good thing that the government takes it with it when you go to Brussels and negotiate. But there is a lack of consistency, I think, when you say that we should decide things in Sweden, because the same parties that attack this from the right usually go against a social protocol. A social protocol means that in Sweden Swedish collective agreements and laws apply to everyone who works here, and it is important that it is stated in the EU Constitution, in the Treaty. Otherwise, there may be doubt as to how to judge in cases before the European Court of Justice, which in practice decides this. I therefore welcome the bourgeois parties to be in favour of a social protocol which states that in Sweden the Swedish model applies and that Swedish collective agreements and salaries apply to everyone who works here. We should not have lorry drivers from other EU countries working for a few tens an hour, as it is actually today. We should not have the abuse of people in Swedish fields and in restaurant kitchens because the control is insufficient. The European Union and the European countries, preferably more than those in the European Union, must also find common solutions to the refugee issue. The weakness of EU policies has been that common repression has been agreed but not agreed on joint responsibility. We must find a system whereby, for example, we distribute quota refugees between countries in Europe and take a constant race to the bottom in trying to eliminate the right of asylum. It is our joint responsibility to do so. And we would like to see other countries, such as Norway, Switzerland or other countries, invited to participate in such enhanced cooperation. Otherwise we will see more of death in the Mediterranean, and we do not want to do so. Otherwise, we will see more dependence on authoritarian regimes like Turkey's. The European Union also needs to be democratised. It has a lot of power. It legislates for big and small. It affects national laws, regions and municipalities. But it is an old-fashioned system that was built up decades ago. It is so strange that those who have a monopoly on proposing new law, the European Commission, must not take instructions from their home countries – it is very strange. It is so strange that much power over the legislation is still in negotiations that are not in practice open to the voters to review. This Parliament, elected by the Swedish people, has no real right to propose new laws in the European Union, even though the laws apply in this country. The power of the European Union needs to be delimited, the plans to build a European federation abandoned and the Union opened up and democratised. Such European cooperation, close cooperation between democracies, is better suited and equipped to meet the major challenges facing our continent.
i-789d595e82d72703-322	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt often talks, gladly and well about the climate and about the need to do more to stop climate change leading to droughts, forest fires and floods. He also likes to talk about fair terms and security at work. These are important questions that Jonas Sjöstedt addresses. We need to do more together in Europe for the climate. A common climate law, common targets for reducing emissions and common legislation to reduce energy use would also be good. We also need to have strong regulations to provide workers working in different places across Europe with decent working conditions and a safe working environment. It is good that living conditions are improving in all countries. Sweden also benefits from this. We can do a lot in Sweden but not everything. Often decisions need to be taken precisely jointly within the framework of the European Union. Jonas Sjöstedt has also spoken about a lot of things that need to be done in the European Union here in the speaker's chair. Yet the Left Party, as I know in the Swedish Parliament alone, wants to leave the European Union. I can't make any sense of this. It is not taking responsibility for the climate and not taking responsibility for employees' conditions. How does Jonas Sjöstedt view it?
i-789d595e82d72703-326	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the question. Ever since Sweden became a member of the EU in 1995, the Left Party has worked very actively in not least the European Parliament to get the decisions in the direction we want. We have made a mark on gender equality, environmental issues and labour law. I myself have been in the European Parliament for 11 years. I have been in a number of legislative negotiations to get the best possible environmental legislation in the EU. That's how we work. But we haven't been uncritical. We have always said that there are better forms of European cooperation than today's European Union. When the environmental movement reviewed the Swedish and European parties before this year's European Parliament elections, the Left Group was the best and pushed for the most to solve environmental problems. We also vote consistently in favour of employees' rights and for greater transparency and human rights in the European Union. It is perfectly possible to reconcile this with being critical of much in the European Union. It may even be an advantage to be so. We also said clearly in the run-up to the elections to the European Parliament that we did not stand in the elections to leave the European Union, but to influence the European Union as best we can, well aware of the difficulties that exist. There is now a debate in our party ahead of our party congress in May, and we will be writing a new party programme in which there will be new formulations about the European Union. I wish I had a crystal ball and could tell you what they're going to look like, but unfortunately I don't. The party congresses of the Left Party are often a little more lively than the Social Democrats when it comes to making different decisions, so it can be in different ways. I would like to ask Prime Minister Stefan Löfven: Was it not wise for us to vote against the euro? We were on different sides of that referendum. Aren't we the ones who were right?
i-789d595e82d72703-333	Madam President, I would like It is good that we both want a more ambitious climate policy and better conditions for wage earners. But let us remember that it is not the European Union that is the enemy, that it is not the European Union that is a threat to the climate and that it is not the European Union that is threatening the working environment and the conditions. On the contrary, it is within the framework of EU cooperation that we can do more. The threat to the climate consists of those who are deniers, and the threat to the workers is those who put wage earners against wage earners. I am happy to take the joint battle with Mr Sjöstedt on this. It is crucial, however, that the Left Party wants Sweden to leave the EU. That's what you stand for. This means that, with the policy of the Left Party, Sweden had not been a member of the EU and could not do so for the climate and for the employees. One can be critical, yes, but taking a stand against and wanting to leave the EU is a completely different matter, Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-789d595e82d72703-335	Madam President, I would like I do not share the Prime Minister's view that Europe is not a problem. The Laval ruling and the Viking ruling were direct interventions in the Swedish labour market and in the Swedish model and threatened employees' ability to fight to have the same collective agreement. To say that Europe has not been a problem is directly wrong. When the EU pours subsidies on industries and industries that increase climate emissions, it is of course a problem. Is it only the one who loves the Union and gives homage speeches that can be useful? Obviously not. Ask the environmental movement and ask those who examine MEPs who are the most diligent, who is voting for the best laws and who is pushing for the best environmental policy. Then you do not end up in the Socialist Group; then you end up with us.
i-789d595e82d72703-337	Madam President, I would like Canada, Bolivia, Ukraine, Zimbabwe, Japan – it almost doesn't matter which country it is, because the Left Party always votes reliably against free trade agreements as soon as they are proposed. That is a little strange, because free trade is by far the best way to lift countries out of poverty. That's how Sweden became a rich country. The fact that trade creates opportunities for prosperity and development knows virtually everyone nowadays. Trade is still crucial for Swedish prosperity. The large Swedish export companies would have had an incredibly difficult time without free trade. But you are voting against more trade with Japan and Canada. The Left Party often talks about solidarity. Nevertheless, the Left Party cannot even vote in favour of trade with poorer countries. These have been agreements with countries such as Botswana, Ghana, Mozambique and Ecuador to give them a chance to integrate with the European economy – requiring sustainable trade. The Left Party votes against free trade, against helping the world's poorest countries and against building Sweden's prosperity stronger. My genuinely curious question is: what is so bad about free trade, Jonas Sjöstedt?
i-789d595e82d72703-342	Madam President, I would like Ulf Kristersson's question bears a contradiction in itself. When Sweden became a member of the EU, the tariff quota was increased. So, overall, we received less free trade with EU membership because of the Union's trade policy. It was actually one of the arguments of the Left Party in the referendum. Why are we against the trade agreement with Canada? Well, for the same reason we have criticised many other agreements: it contains an investment protection clause. It may sound harmless, but it is in practice a question of private companies being able to sue states if states take democratic decisions that are considered to reduce corporate profits. This is often decided in completely closed special courts without democratic influence. We have seen what this has meant. Landers have been sued to ban the use of fracturing because they want to protect their own environment, and similar clauses have been used against countries that have tried to get a better health insurance system from private companies. One could imagine that, for example, American companies are suing Sweden because it reduces their profits if we remove the profit hunt in welfare or if we introduce a mineral fee for mining areas to get better infrastructure. The Left Party believes that Sweden and all other states have the right to legislate for the environment and public health without it being overtested by private companies in the way that is actually possible in, for example, the CETA agreement. The parts that are about removing customs duties and such things are completely unproblematic to me. It is almost always good to remove tariffs, which are a fairly small part of the trade barriers that exist today. However, I do not believe in a global order that consistently puts the power of big business over democratic decisions.
i-789d595e82d72703-348	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that the arguments against the Canada Agreement are valid either. It is interesting that Mr Sjöstedt mentions Canada precisely when, as far as I know, he is systematically opposed to all free trade agreements. Is it not basically about the Left Party being against free trade as an idea whether it would benefit mature economies such as Sweden and our relationship with Canada and Japan or whether it would benefit poor countries who want to enter the modern economy? Is the Left Party for or against free trade?
i-789d595e82d72703-350	Madam President, I would like As a rule, the Left Party is in favour of removing customs duties and provisions that hinder trade between countries. But trade is not as free as it is in the dream world of the Moderates. The conditions are all too often dictated by the rich, powerful countries and their large companies that hold the strings behind. We also talk about fair trade, that is, countries with a less developed economy should have the opportunity to grow economically. It is because of this, investment protection and those parts of intellectual property that can complicate things that, for example, environmental and social movements often want trade agreements that look different. Free trade, yes, but we also want fair trade.
i-789d595e82d72703-353	Madam President, I would like In recent years we have seen more and more and more serious threats and attempts to attack democracy across Europe and the world in various ways. Last night, for example, we were able to read about attacks on Labour in Britain. States and other actors, through advocacy campaigns, have influenced or attempted to influence the democratic choices of free states and have made illegal annexations or large-scale cyber attacks. The security situation in our neighbourhood and in and around Europe is set. However, the threats do not have to look like they did before, nor do they need to be seen at all. Hybrid threats and cyber attacks are real and unfortunately in many cases everyday for countries as well as companies, organisations and individuals. Sweden is not spared this either. To counter this and strengthen our common security, the EU has, among other things, cooperation with NATO on hybrid threats. For example, a common hybrid centre has been set up in Helsinki. When the Minister of Defence informed the EU Council about this, the Left Party, together with the Swedish Democrats, opposed such cooperation. Why is the Left Party opposed to cooperation between European countries and NATO in order to ward off threats to the foundations of our democracy, such as free and secret elections, free speech and free and open press?
i-789d595e82d72703-358	Madam President, I would like I agree with a lot in Annie Lööf's description of the new types of threats we see against, for example, free choice when propaganda is spread. A particularly active player is Russia, where it has been demonstrated how they go in and spread lies and campaigns to influence different political processes, such as Brexit. One is naive if one does not believe that this is also happening in Sweden and will happen here in the future. Why, then, do we think that we should not be part of various NATO agencies? Because we do not think we should be part of NATO. We want to cooperate with other countries but not gradually enter NATO structures after NATO structures. I understand why NATO supporters want to be in everything that NATO has – everything from parliamentary assemblies to various bodies – but it is good to work together on things without being formally part of NATO. I believe that it is even the NATO supporters' strategy in Sweden that we should practice and be part of NATO structures step by step, and then one day one comes and says: we are already in. Now it's just to be in the whole of NATO as well. The Left Party does not buy this. We are happy to work together to combat cyber threats and propaganda, for example, but we do not want to go into NATO structures after NATO structures. We think that military alliance freedom is good because it promotes peace and security, and this gives us the opportunity to have an independent, own foreign policy. The NATO issue is complex in many ways. The largest NATO military country is Turkey. Is it clear that we are to be part of the same structures as Turkey, which is actually partly concerned with exactly those things that Annie Lööf is talking about? It is not clear that we always have the same interests.
i-789d595e82d72703-362	Madam President, I would like I am fully aware of Jonas Sjöstedt's opposition to NATO, but now my question was not about a Swedish NATO membership. It was also not about increased supranationality in defence and security issues. My question was about intergovernmental cooperation in order to better respond to threats to our own security and to our common European security. It is primarily about exchanging knowledge and information and about equipping countries like Sweden to better detect but also counteract hybrid threats, which we have seen the effects of in too many places in our vicinity. Why does the Left Party allow its NATO opposition to blind them to an issue concerning the ability and readiness of EU countries to face threats to our security and democracy together? It is cooperation between European countries and, for example, NATO. I ask again: why is the Left Party opposed to cooperation with a view to averting threats to the foundations of our democracy?
i-789d595e82d72703-365	Madam President, I would like My answer is the same as before: we are happy to cooperate and much, but we do not want to be part of formal NATO structures. With regard to both the EU and NATO, I think that consideration should be given to what is happening today in many NATO countries. We had such a discussion about Austria and about information from the Austrian Government's right-wing party going to Russia, for example. Now Austria is an EU country and not a NATO country, but we have a similar situation with regard to, for example, Hungary. Is it obvious that we want to share everything that has to do with national security with such countries? I think we should be careful.
i-789d595e82d72703-368	Madam President, I would like The Left Party talked a lot about waste and about the European Union's long-term budget earlier today. V and the Christian Democrats may be able to take the Swedish Democrats with them into this new axis power of 'no' owners and veto lovers. We can say that we are almost seeing the birth of a left-wing alliance in this House today. It is parties who find that we should not have any higher ambitions in this area in terms of European cooperation and deepening. It should be remembered that the budget is complicated at a time when, unfortunately, Britain is leaving the Union. This represents a major loss, because the UK is also a strong net contributor to the development of peace and security activities in Europe. Like the Left Party, we have views on perhaps moving a little more slowly towards reforming agricultural policy or, for that matter, that we need to review cohesion policy. However, all of this has the basis for trying to change Europe slowly and bring the citizens with them. If, at the same time, we are to make investments in the climate in terms of research, direct conversion, increased border protection or just general research, in order to ensure that Europe is part of the race against digitalisation and AI that is now taking place and does not end up in the shadow of China and the United States, we must invest more. But if it is already said that we should not contribute to this because it is difficult to reform the other areas, I wonder: does the Left Party not have any ambitions in terms of climate, border protection or improved research in Europe?
i-789d595e82d72703-372	Madam President, I would like In Swedish preschools you withdraw the fruit. In Swedish retirement homes you go down in staff density so that the night shift can run and do not have time to take a break. Almost all municipalities in Sweden are cutting down on the school. What is it like in the EU? Well, the European Union's big shot is going to go more private jet and increase the budget for this by 50%. They have already decided on this. In the EU, billions of billions of billionaires and oligarchs who are large landowners and who have sometimes become this in questionable ways are being ousted. In the European Union, there is a Parliament running back and forth between Brussels and Strasbourg every month at enormous costs. Yes, I choose the fruit of preschool instead of moving parliament. Yes, I choose better staffing of the retirement home than to pour Swedish tax money over Czech oligarchs. I think it is a good left-wing policy.
i-789d595e82d72703-375	Madam President, I would like I welcome the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party. I congratulate them in trying to reduce the opportunities for Europe to develop and take further steps. The climate change that we are currently engaged in within the European Union means quite tough measures in many places. We heard earlier that there are no oil fields in the interior of Norrland. We can agree on this, but there are 18 fairly vulnerable coal-mining regions across Europe. If we are to ensure that they can be changed and become part of a green European future, resources are needed, both for cohesion and for investment in what these people should do instead. They are also workers, Jonas Sjöstedt. Unfortunately, Madam President, it is clear that the Left Party does not want to participate in the European Union. You want to isolate yourself, but this has never gone well in the world before.
i-789d595e82d72703-378	Madam President, I would like During the time I was in the European Parliament, I did a few years in the Committee on Budgetary Control. It was interesting, and it was scary. In fact, during all the years I was there, central European bodies were not granted discharge because they did not keep track of the money. They couldn't answer where the money went. And that's how it's been year after year. If it happens in the stamp club in Lindesberg that discharge is not granted, the cashier must go, but in the EU it can only continue. I believe in a strong welfare. I believe in keeping the finances in order. I believe in knowing what to do with taxpayers' money. The EU does not have that check. I am not prepared to pour Swedish tax billions into a black hole where we do not always know what the money is going to do. I think the Liberals should be a little more concerned about public finances and taxpayers' money.
i-789d595e82d72703-380	Madam President, I would like Almost six months have passed since the EU elections. We Christian Democrats sought the electorate's mandate to work for a Europe that has the right focus, a Europe that focuses on solving common problems but also accepts that the countries of the Union are different. We called it just enough: more of what the European Union is really going to do, less of what the Member States are doing best themselves, not too much Europe, not too little Europe, but just right. When Stefan Löfven spoke to the European Parliament in the spring, before the European elections, he met with the same message from Latvian Commissioner Valdis Dombrovskis. Dombrovskis put it this way: There is a Swedish concept that I think should be central to the future of Europe. For many Swedes it is a lifestyle and a way of thinking. It is a Swedish philosophy about moderation and balance – about avoiding both abundance and extremes. A Europe that is just enough must also realise that when the British leave the EU, it becomes smaller. Then the suit will also have to shrink, otherwise the suit will soon be in very bad shape. At worst, the EU risks losing its pants completely. The Swedish EU contribution is now up to 42 billion. It has increased greatly over time, and strong forces want it to increase further. This is happening at the same time as the care queues are growing and many Swedish municipalities are wrestling with apparent deficits in their welfare. That is why I am pleased that Jonas Sjöstedt and I have found a common understanding of the principles of the Swedish EU levy. Our message is that the Swedish EU levy should not increase faster than BNI and that the EU must therefore prioritise and redistribute instead of constantly expanding. Madam President, I would like The issue of migration will continue to dominate Swedish politics and European debate for the foreseeable future, and with good reason because we are in a new situation that requires both self-examination and new solutions. Basically, every time we debate the issue of migration, the Prime Minister refers to solutions at EU level. It is true, of course, that the European Union plays an important role. However, joint responsibility for migration also means harmonisation of legislation. And here Sweden has not done its own homework. That is precisely why the Christian Democrats' entry values in the Parliamentary Migration Committee are that Sweden must now approach the level of our Nordic neighbours when it comes to reception, because in Brussels the deadlock persists. The Commission's large asylum package is still on the table in the Council of Ministers. The locks are many and hard, and not least Eastern Europe continues to block important processes. But Europe cannot allow itself to be paralysed. Europe and Sweden will take responsibility for people fleeing oppression and persecution. There should be no doubt about this. However, the EU must also secure its external borders, crush the networks of traffickers and put in place as much common reception, redistribution and resettlement policies as possible. Our message is this: move forward with the joint actions that are possible to reach agreement on today! Don't wait for the big picture! Madam President, I would like In order to obtain the consent of the European Parliament, the incoming President of the European Commission was forced to make concessions. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament made far-reaching demands to support her. That is why we now have an incoming European Commission that is expected to put forward radical welfare policy proposals on issues that are better dealt with by the countries themselves. Firstly, we are talking about a European unemployment fund, where national unemployment insurance is to be glued together. The risk is obvious that this will be a new intra-European system of grants from well-managed economies to mismanaged. Secondly, as a result of requests from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the European Commission has now again promised to present proposals on the European minimum wage. This is extremely serious, and it can be a starting point against the Swedish party model. Or, as representatives of the social partners put it at DN Debate yesterday: All legislative initiatives in the field of wage policy, whatever their design, are in danger of seriously disrupting self-regulatory collective bargaining systems. ..................................................... But it is not only LO and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise who criticise the proposal for a European minimum wage. When you ask the Swedish Government, you get the answer that it shares our concerns and the concerns of the parties. But what Stefan Löfven forgets to tell is that it was Stefan Löfven himself who set the ball in motion. In any letter from the European Commission or from the European Parliament addressing these proposals, they are justified by the social pillar or by the European Summit of Lövven in Gothenburg. The Social Democrats owe an explanation to the Swedish people, companies and trade unions. Are our salaries and working conditions to be decided here by us or in Brussels by 28 countries? Madam President, I would like Europe plays a more important role than it has been for a long time, and there are certainly no problems to deal with. It is about what the climate issue demands of us, what the new migrations of peoples are asking for, how we tackle the new security policy situation, how we face the fierce economic competition from countries such as China, the United States and India. These are all issues on which the EU should focus. Unfortunately, the fact that we must now instead devote our energies and energy to securing the Swedish labour market from supranational ambitions of power is a fact. This is a clear example of a Europe that devotes too little effort to solving what no state can solve for itself and too much power to solve what all states can solve better themselves. That is why, Madam President, we continue to say: Make Europe just right again!
i-789d595e82d72703-398	Madam President, I would like I'll ask about the same question to Ebba Busch Thor as I asked Ulf Kristersson, because it now has a great interest in Swedish politics. Now we have the right-wing conservative bloc in Swedish politics with Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats. We know very well what the Swedish Democrats have said about Russia. It was a Swedish democratic representative who wanted Putin to come to Sweden to remove the Head of Government. It's a little hard to keep your interests apart. The Swedish Democrats do not think that the EU should examine Hungary and Poland. When free courts, independent universities and independent media are now threatened with legislation, the Swedish Democrats do not think that the EU should review it. I want to know how the Christian Democrats view this cooperation, given what the Swedish Democrats actually stand for and express very clearly. Do the Christian Democrats in the European context see any problems with the cooperation that we need to develop? And what line would these three parties take in EU cooperation with regard to the EU's values and interest in Russia?
i-789d595e82d72703-401	Madam President, I would like As I see it, it is a bloc that is motivated and defined by the existence of budgetary cooperation. When it comes to what has happened in Swedish politics, one can say that the old blocks have been dissolved. There Stefan Löfven, Madam President, has been given what Stefan Löfven wanted. I would rather say that we have instead a new bloc in Swedish politics consisting of the four January parties. Otherwise, there are no blocks. There is a Left Party support party for the four January parties. Then there are three parties in opposition. It is the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and we in the Christian Democrats. We have said that it is the substance of substance and real problems that affect ordinary people that must be our focus. That is where the voters have an obligation to demand that we resolve these problems. Then we are prepared to talk to everyone in the Swedish Parliament to do so, and I think that is right and proper. We therefore have no formal cooperation with any other parties in this way, except with the Moderates. Our line in European policy is clear. That's exactly what I've been describing here. If the question is about which line we are prepared to take when it comes to European issues wherever they are discussed, the line is that it is precisely about ensuring that Europe is adequate and that we ensure legitimacy for the future in accordance with what I have said in my opening speech – nothing else. My counter-question to Stefan Löfven is whether Stefan Löfven to Angela Merkel, my Christian Democratic colleague in Germany, repeatedly chose to call her party a right-wing conservative party.
i-789d595e82d72703-405	Madam President, I would like It was then clear that there is no government alternative in the Swedish parliament. That's good. It may not have been what Kristersson had expected in response, but then it is established: There is no government alternative in the Swedish parliament. I am pleased about that, but we are still trying to work together across borders. We want as much cooperation as possible. Such cooperation concerns climate and energy, and I hope that the Christian Democrats not only focus on nuclear energy but that we can ensure that we work together to get as much renewable energy as possible. The EU should not only support nuclear development, but we need all other energy so that we get a real energy diversification. As far as Angela Merkel is concerned, I have excellent cooperation with her. We have excellent cooperation with Germany in many areas. One thing that strikes me is that Mrs Merkel thinks that the social pillar in Europe is good and that there is a reason for it.
i-789d595e82d72703-408	Madam President, I would like Then I take it that Stefan Löfven shows my Christian Democratic colleague in Germany the respect that he does not stick an ideological label on her that is actually not true. We Christian Democrats are what we are called, namely Christian Democrats, and right now we are challenging the Social Democrats in Sweden when it comes to being the real welfare option. We may be a welfare party on the right, but we are a welfare party that can be trusted. I did not understand that the question was about the government option, but for us it is crystal clear: the reality is now catching up with the strange January agreement, and I believe that the voters will give support to a new government once that day comes.
i-789d595e82d72703-410	Madam President, I would like If you can save a person's life, you can't turn your eyes away. The border with the EU and Europe on the Mediterranean is one of the deadliest borders in the world. Already this year, over a thousand people have lost their lives on the Mediterranean, and this year, for the sixth year in a row, there have been reports of more than a thousand deaths among those who, in desperation – even though they know they are putting themselves in danger of life – have tried to cross the sea from a reality where they see no future. One of the EU's biggest, most difficult and important issues is to agree on a common and human asylum and migration policy as soon as possible. The lack of legal access to the EU puts the people fleeing into more vulnerable situations where life and death are often involved. We have a human responsibility to help the people who flee from war and injustice, and the rescue efforts made on the Mediterranean are saving lives every day. A few weeks ago, however, the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, voted against the fact that the European Parliament would push Member States to increase their life-saving efforts on the Mediterranean. Lifesaving efforts in the Mediterranean are not just about the lives and deaths of thousands of people; they are also about who we want to be. Madam President, I would like My question to the Christian Democrats is therefore: Is it really the right European policy to look away when people die, Ebba Busch Thor?
i-789d595e82d72703-414	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is: No, never ever. Indeed, we have a human responsibility and a moral obligation to help people in need. It's one thing to want to do good and another thing to actually do good. My colleague does not seem to understand the difference. The resolution that Isabella Lövin's Green Party voted for in the European Parliament meant that the EU would share sensitive information about the border and coastguard – information that would then risk ending up in the hands of smugglers. Although the motion for a resolution was intended to do good, the effect would have been the opposite. The resolution had caused organised crime and led to more and more dangerous journeys. We voted instead of the Christian Democratic Group's motion for a resolution, which stressed the importance of solidarity and common solutions to the issue of migration and that this requires control of the EU's external borders. That proposal was voted down by the Green Party, with the help of the extreme right in the European Parliament. My counter-question is therefore: why are you taking the migrant smuggling, Isabella Lövin, so lightly, and why did you vote against the EPP resolution?
i-789d595e82d72703-417	Madam President, I would like The fact that greater information sharing would benefit smugglers of refugees is against better knowledge. Frontex is already using this information and, of course, it is not shared with smugglers of refugees. In the nformation is shared with organizations such as the Red Cross, Doctors Without Borders and other NGOs that can go out to those positions where perhaps hundreds of people are about to drown – to save their lives. We should be grateful to these organisations and not confuse them with smugglers of refugees. I think what Ebba Busch Thor is saying is rather obscene. You voted, together with the far right, against the conditions for saving lives on the Mediterranean, Ebba Busch Thor. In a world where democratic fundamental values are increasingly threatened, it is important to have your moral compass right, and my question is: How does the policies of the Christian Democrats help the people fleeing and the people who actually die?
i-789d595e82d72703-419	Madam President, I would like If the crucial thing is who you vote with, we're both equally good cabbage drinkers. For me it is the content and that one can stand up for what is important. It is a completely devoid of reality to see that this information is already being used by serious criminal networks and that this information would have fallen into the hands of traffickers. This is where some of the absolute worst abuses occur against asylum seekers who are trying to get to Europe and Sweden. They're on their way here when people are in the hands of the smugglers. That is why we must have a completely different regime for migration. Another system must apply at EU level, and Sweden must do its homework. We are pushing for this in the Migration Commission here.
i-789d595e82d72703-421	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating how Sweden should use its membership of the organised European Community, what we call the European Union. I remember this day, 25 years ago, as a law student at King 中's College London, standing on the vigil of the Chamber of Commerce, celebrating the clear yes of the Swedish people to membership of the European Union. It is almost difficult to take on board how much of what we then debated in Sweden has actually become a reality. It's easier to study in other countries. We know that our Swedish companies have been able to grow and export in the internal market in a fantastic way that we could not imagine. We know that today we can get specialist care throughout the European Union if we are ill, and so on. This shows the value of the liberal idea of openness and cooperation – that it is always better than solitude and suspicion. It has strengthened Sweden's security and increased our influence in the world. This has meant that the whole of Europe has increased its ambitions in terms of climate change. It has increased the effectiveness of the fight against international crime and money laundering. Madam President, I would like We Liberals took an early position in favour of Swedish membership of the Community. We are convinced that ever stronger cooperation, trade without barriers and a shared responsibility for solving global problems make us more successful – and above all that it makes our citizens' lives richer and more secure. Back then, we met resistance. We met resistance from the left, from those who disliked the fact that Europe was basically a liberal project, because cooperation is based on openness, democracy and a market economy. Since then, the Swedish left, even perhaps the outer edge of the left, has actually turned. But also from the right hand side, the man is tangled. It was about those ideological models which simply do not like freedom within the Community or the social aspirations of fundamental human rights throughout Europe – or who truly believe that smaller nations are stronger alone. This was true of those who always see dangers of human freedom. Madam President, I would like Looking ahead today, we also see the need for deeper European cooperation to address the societal problems facing Sweden and Europe and all our other democratic friends in the world. The threats of an aggressive Russia and an increasingly expansive China call for a strong Europe. The Russian information operations to undermine our democracies as well as the military structure must meet precisely with others. Furthermore, when we show weakness individually, China stands there ready to buy up our central national assets – Sweden is no exception. Speaking of China, at the latest the other day, our own government was obliged, for the umpteenth time, to inform China and its representatives that we in Sweden actually have something that we call freedom of expression and that we protect it. When the current US administration has, to say the least, lost its grip on the liberal ambitions of the world, a vacuum and external pressure arise from many other great powers. Never has it been clearer that united we stood and divided we fell. The climate crisis requires cross-border solutions. Dead seas and climate change are cross-border issues. A strong Europe in which we show leadership globally is the only way to a sustainable future. Sweden should push for an effective common CO2 tax, continue the fight to protect our biodiversity throughout Europe and push for future fossil-free transport. Should Sweden in a coming recession have economic resilience that protects the welfare of our children, the elderly and the sick, we must continue to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies. This requires fewer trade barriers and more cutting-edge research, innovation and AI. These are things that Sweden is good at but that we can't do on our own. Competition with China and the United States, for example, is a knife vase. We need to see an even stronger focus from the government on this and that Sweden cooperates with other countries and puts pressure on the incoming Commission to really prioritise and focus on competition issues globally as well as on our internal market issues. As protectionist winds are now blowing and the World Trade Organisation is collapsing, the EU is needed as a stable force for order and order in world trade. It is appropriate to take this opportunity to thank our outgoing Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström, who has led the EU's trade policy. Through Cecilia, the EU has made great efforts to keep the banner of free trade high, while crucial ambitions have led to progress in human rights and climate requirements in these trade agreements. With trade and aid, we in Europe can continue to strengthen freedom and development throughout the world. International crime and terrorism must be fought together. We've been into it in our previous line shifts. International solidarity requires strong action from Europe. Together, we must better share responsibility for people on the run and make strong efforts to prevent oppression, poverty and climate disasters in other parts of the world. The goal is that no one should have to flee either to Europe or anywhere else. Madam President, I would like At a time when communism and Islamism have become competitive with nationalism and populism, more calm liberalism is needed. Only with strong cooperation can we patiently and step by step solve common and not infrequently global societal problems. This is the only way to reduce the attraction of those forces that want to dismantle European cooperation from within and to dismantle central parts of their own democracy.
i-789d595e82d72703-435	Madam President, I would like Johan Pehrson! The Liberal Group in the European Parliament, which includes the Swedish Liberals and the Center Party, is distinguished by receiving a lot of money from private companies. It is companies that want to lobby in order to influence legislation in the European Union. There's a lot of money going from these multinational giants right into the group's coffers. In this way they buy access to the group's meetings, seminars and events. Among the companies that have chosen to invest their money in the Liberal Group are Monsanto who has been in windstorms and a number of legal processes for having pesticides that caused diseases in those who have used them. There are Ubers who are known to avoid any collective agreements against their drivers. There is also Google that is known to find loopholes to avoid paying taxes where you are active. They seem to think it is the Liberal Group that is the best horse to invest in in the European Parliament. I think it is unreasonable for a group to take money directly from large companies who obviously want to influence how they act and vote in the European Parliament. How does Johan Pehrson view this? Is this something that continues today in the Liberal Group? We know that it was going on until the elections, but does it continue during the current term of office?
i-M1pwcn8UvAJdcMBywrW57c	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt, for the question. I can assure Jonas Sjöstedt that the liberal representatives from Sweden take this up and are careful about transparency. What the Liberal Group has done in the past and what compensation we have received from various companies can certainly be criticised. Political parties and political organisations have activities where they receive compensation from different companies. The Liberals are having a country meeting this weekend. Many companies and various trade union stakeholders come there to influence and influence and have contact with the liberal representatives, and they pay for this. This could be described as a contribution, but I think the important thing here is to look at the companies and their interests, as Jonas Sjöstedt points out. For example, is it possible to think that the former Liberal Competition Commissioner, Vestager, has been lax on the issue of how to treat American social media giants who are crushing the entire advertising market and are subduing the world in a rather unpleasant way? No, on the contrary – the approach has been critical, and she has ensured that we pursue them in every way, because this is a democracy issue. The important thing is that we should be open and that Jonas Sjöstedt should be able to know every time what lobbyists have met in Brussels and what compensations have been given. It should be clear whether it is a matter of unions working for the living conditions of coal miners when we switch Europe from a coal union to a de facto green union or something else. That transparency is important.
i-789d595e82d72703-442	Madam President, I would like First, Johan Pehrson makes a critical statement about these contributions and says that the Liberals' Members of the European Parliament raise this as a matter of concern. Then Johan Pehrson defends the fact that you get money from big companies and think it's natural for political parties– which is a little strange to me as a left-wing partyist, I have to admit. Nevertheless, I would like to hear whether this transparency actually applies. Are you accepting money from big business now in the Liberal Group? Will you continue to do that?
i-789d595e82d72703-444	Madam President, I would like I cannot answer exactly what the new Renew Group has chosen to do and how to act, but it is quite obvious that liberals are open about this. You can't see enterprise as an enemy all the time. It is reasonable that there is lobbyism, it is reasonable that it is open and it is reasonable that it should be explained what contacts are being made. It is an important part of developing Europe. Remember, it's not just big business. It is about other interests – it is non-profit organisations and trade union representatives who are struggling to bring forward decisions. After all, we have a discussion here on how to develop EU cooperation in our country to anchor so that more interests can get into the legislative processes that run all the time. I assume that this is happening openly. There are of course individual companies that I would never touch with pliers, and if it is these I cannot answer. I must return to Jonas Sjöstedt with an account of what it looks like exactly today and this hour.
i-789d595e82d72703-447	Madam President, I would like When people work together towards a common goal, anything is possible. But when people start working against each other, suspect each other, and separate man from man because of religion or skin color, anything can go wrong. Last week I was in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Twenty-five years after the war, the bullet holes are still all over ordinary apartment building facades. On the streets you stumble on old shell holes painted in blood-red color. They're called Sarajevo's Roses. The siege of Sarajevo lasted four years. The war ended in 1995. Looking out over the hills around the city, it felt real and unreal at the same time. I can't believe the snipers just lay there in the trees shooting at the women on the streets and that fellow students, former neighbors and friends fired grenades at playgrounds. Before the war, the peoples of Bosnia lived in peace with each other. Many lived in mixed marriages. But the ambitions of a few politicians could whip people up against each other. It is frighteningly fast to create a spiral of violence where the first shot demands revenge. But the wounds and grief of 100,000 dead will take many generations to heal. Today, two of the states formed after the Balkan war are members of the EU. Bosnia and Herzegovina is now hoping to become a candidate country. They have a long way to go. But so many, especially the young people I met, yearn to become an EU country. It is a promise of prosperity, stability and reconciliation – the reconciliation that has not yet been achieved. However, many strong forces are working today to prevent countries in the immediate vicinity of the EU from joining. Populist and nationalist rhetoric spreads its poison, not only within the EU but also outside. Geopolitical and economic interests that do not want to see a stronger Europe playing its cards well. We see that Britain is leaving the EU. We all need to wake up to the fact that the Union is weakening just when a stronger Europe is needed to stand up for democracy, freedom of expression, women's rights and an ambitious climate policy. These very values are under threat today. We also need to wake up to the fact that many of the countries that we like differently on these very issues are countries on which the EU is heavily dependent today, because they supply the EU with fossil energy. More than half of the energy that the EU needs to be imported in the form of oil and gas, mainly from Russia and much from the Middle East. Every year, staggering SEK 3 200 billion flow from the EU to the pockets of these countries. Madam President, I would like To cope with the climate crisis and to defend democracy, we need the European Union. To cope with cross-border problems, we must face them together. We need Europe to be able to make tough demands on multinationals, large companies that otherwise play countries against each other and to push for fair trade that can stop child labour, animal cruelty and environmental pollution. We need the European Union to defend the principles of the rule of law and women's right to their own body, which is currently under threat worldwide, as well as to face terrorist threats and cross-border crime. We need Europe to save the seas from overfishing and plastic litter, to replace fossil fuels with an energy union with sun, wind and water and to enable citizens to travel sustainably throughout Europe with a rail union. So the EU can continue to export peace and sustainability and give hope to a young generation. The solution to the EU's common problem is not to build walls. It's not creating divides between people. It is not to give the impression that you can recreate a yesterday that no longer exists. The solution is to look forward. The Green Party sees that the EU can be a decisive force for a better future. Alone is not strong. But if we work together, there is no limit to what we can achieve.
i-789d595e82d72703-456	Madam President, I would like Two weeks ago, six radical Islamists were released into Swedish streets. They were judged as national security threats in Sweden, and the government had decided that they would be expelled from the kingdom. It seems completely incomprehensible to normal people. And it's a huge failure of this government. Lateness and inability to act allowed this to happen. I'm afraid this is a pattern. Here at home, the Green Party is delaying important legislation or counteracting it openly. That is exactly how the Green Party is doing in the EU as well. It votes time and again against new instruments to stop terrorism. It may be the possibility to collect passenger data or to stop the spread of terrorist messages online. It is hard to understand that a party from Sweden does not understand that we can only stop international terrorism and serious organised crime together with others and that it requires coordinated work in the EU as well. My question to Isabella Lövin is: why does the Green Party not want to participate wholeheartedly in the European fight against terrorism?
i-789d595e82d72703-460	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ulf Kristersson for the question. As I have just said in my speech, the Green Party wholeheartedly believes that we need European cooperation, precisely in order to address the enormous cross-border threats that we are now seeing in the world. Terrorism and cross-border crime are just such issues. There we need to be able to cooperate more. The Green Party has contributed to strengthening efforts in a number of areas, not least at home. We have passed laws and more severe penalties on over 60 points. We have just gone forward with another 34 points in order to get to grips with gang crime. I would like to say something briefly about Ulf Kristersson's introduction to the imams that cannot be expelled because of a judgment. Sweden does not banish countries where those we expel risk the death penalty or torture. It is a principle that we have had for a long time. We abolished the death penalty over a hundred years ago. We do not think it is an appropriate punishment. This principle has also been applied under the Reinfeldt government and former bourgeois governments. That is why I would like to ask a question back to Ulf Kristersson. Does he really think that we should expel to countries where those we expel are in danger of being killed or tortured? That would be a new and interesting message. I also think it is sloppy to say that the Green Party has something to do with this. These are the principles of the rule of law. The Swedish Bar Association and others have been clear about this. We have order, and we will follow it.
i-789d595e82d72703-466	I would like to remind you that it is an EU political party leader debate, so that we will remember it in the future.
i-789d595e82d72703-467	Madam President, I would like I raise both questions because they belong together. The first concerns how Sweden acts when people suspected of being a risk to national security instead of being sent out of Sweden are released on the street. My accusation was that you haven't done the things you could have done to keep them in custody for much longer. That's my point. But it is linked to the common European work. If we are to stop cross-border terrorism and serious organised crime, more European cooperation will be required. It is remarkable that the Green Party has systematically voted against European attempts to strengthen the common force of that work.
i-789d595e82d72703-469	Madam President, I would like Thank you for reminding me! It's important. I just want to say that I do not think it is a good principle to keep people in detention without being condemned. We're not having a Swedish Guantánamo. I don't know if Ulf Kristersson wants it. What is important is that we have a clear and clear rule of law and principles that also respect the integrity of our citizens. Here the Green Party is clear. We must ensure that we do not give up information that can come into the wrong hands and that can control citizens in a threatening way if they fall into the wrong context. I think that this principle is important to use when considering different types of monitoring. But, of course, we in the Green Party also have a clear and clear understanding that cross-border crime, not least terrorism, needs to be combated.
i-789d595e82d72703-472	Madam President, I would like Today, on the 25th anniversary of the Swedish referendum, it is worth recalling that it was fortunate that the Green Party lost. You didn't want this. You thought this idea of cooperation was such a terrible thing that you bit yourself into the same tabletop as Swedish democrats and left-wing parties. Some still bite there, as I said. I welcome all of this. For us liberals, Europe is the answer to the fact that it should not be the ecochamber of hatred, violence, war and destruction that it has been for hundreds of years. Therefore, what Isabella Lövin highlighted in her speech is now important, namely what Europe can mean. It is easy to get down on details and details and constantly criticize. This is the case in all collaborations, municipal, regional, national – not to mention at UN level. Everything can be criticized, but it is important not to let go of the big picture. When cooperation such as the organised European Community, called the EU, is taken forward, things are gradually being taken forward. In a change of line, we were just able to hear about the fight against terrorism. The gods should know, if they exist, that not everyone here has always supported that question. It was very clear after the terrorist events in the United States and the bombings in Madrid and London. There were those who braked this. But we have moved forward and are working hard to fight terrorism together. That's good. The Prime Minister was on the issue of banking union and opened up a little cautiously to it. It welcomes the Liberals. Does the Green Party do that? How do you view economic cooperation? Does this issue not apply to the government, but only to the Social Democrats? How do you view the question of the veto in the field of foreign affairs? That is something the Liberals have been pushing for a long time. There we also heard an opening. Is the Green Party also behind this opening that Stefan Löfven showed?
i-789d595e82d72703-476	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Pehrson, for the questions! With regard to the Green Party's position on the European Union, I would first of all like to say that we are now looking forward. This happened 25 years ago. It has been a long time since the Green Party changed its position on the EU. We see Europe as the possible tool that we need today to safeguard democracy and combat climate change. It's extremely important. Let's agree on that. We are, of course, behind the Prime Minister's speech. His speech concerns government policy. When it comes to foreign policy or human rights veto issues, it is deeply worrying that the EU cannot come together to make clear statements when human rights are being violated. To my great dismay, I very often have to fight for the EU to be able to make sufficiently offensive and sharp statements about sexual and reproductive health and rights, women's rights and violations of people that occur over the world. It is a step forward for us, and we are prepared to look at how the decision-making rules in these areas could be changed. We think it is important to balance and get right when it comes to monitoring in a society. There is artificial intelligence here, and we know that total states are happy to use surveillance. Not only is everything positive to 100% so that we can have total monitoring of our citizens. There must be a well-assessed balance between the threat of terrorism and human rights.
i-789d595e82d72703-479	Madam President, I would like The last is easy to agree with. Sounds good. We must take action. Unfortunately, several European countries are vulnerable. Not everyone can handle economic crises as responsibly as we have done in Sweden over the years. Liberals are in favour of stronger economic cooperation. That's where it starts. Our future is linked to Denmark, Germany and France. We show weakness and are alone, there is a great risk that we see a major impact by Chinese interests buying into European fundamental infrastructure projects. Sooner or later it will be a problem. This must be stopped. As far as monitoring is concerned, we are in a situation where Europe is to be protected or to monitor what Chinese or Russians are doing. Otherwise, they'll take care of us for us. It is therefore more important than ever that this should be reinforced. I therefore welcome the fact that you support the liberal idea of being able to make more effective decisions in the field of foreign affairs and what has to do with the economy.
i-789d595e82d72703-482	Madam President, I would like I would like to pay an honest tribute to the Liberals who stand up for European cooperation at a time when it is really needed. It is up to us where this cooperation goes. If we just continue or take a line where only fear and repression can govern our decisions, cooperation will not be good. I think it is good that the Liberals are looking forward and positive. It is such a line that can make Europe a real hope for future generations, the young people today and all the young people in the neighbourhood of the European Union who dream of joining the European Union. We must continue and show that it is a workable and attractive cooperation, otherwise the anti-democratic forces will win. These forces are very active in buying strategic interests in Europe.
i-789d595e82d72703-496	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the report of the Committee on Finance No 12, calling for the name 'A new regulation for occupational pension companies'. For the sake of clarity, I would already like to call for approval of the proposal in the unanimous report of the Committee on Finance. This is a report that has its background in an EU directive on institutions for occupational retirement provision, the so-called Second Occupational Pensions Directive. Both the First and Second Occupational Pensions Directives are steps towards harmonisation of the internal market in occupational pensions. It concerns the activities and supervision of operators and a new type of institution, so-called occupational pension schemes. Having said that and with this dry, light academic prose in the trunk – what is it really about? Yes, it is about conditions and rules for occupational pensions and for the occupational pension market in Sweden. The occupational pension is complementary to the general pension. Yeah, that's it. It is a very important complement, the relative importance of which tends to increase in terms of the overall economic situation of a great many of today's and tomorrow's pensioners. For most people in Sweden, the occupational pension is the result of working under collective agreements. For those working under collective agreements, occupational pensions are an important part of the terms of employment. Here, Sweden is very different from most EU Member States in that it is the social partners who agree on both the content and the design of occupational pensions. This is an essential part of what we usually call the Swedish model, a model that has served us well. Through the design that the parties have given to occupational pensions, for example, we have avoided negative lock-in effects on the Swedish labour market. The concern today is that an increasing group of people in Sweden are working in workplaces that lack collective agreements and therefore very likely do not have an agreement on occupational pensions. This means working under much worse conditions. Their future pension situation will be extremely problematic. Madam President, I would like The fact that the content and scope of the wholly dominant part of the Swedish occupational pension market are dealt with to a significant extent by the social partners has also characterised the preparation of this report. A market that has been built up for a long time, after often long and difficult negotiations between the parties, has created some special conditions. Both the government and the Finance Committee have therefore recognised the need to listen and take in views from the industry and from the social partners. This way of working on the matter has led us to propose in this report, in broad agreement, that the Parliament adopt the government's legislative proposals. This implements the EU's Second Occupational Pensions Directive in Swedish law. Madam President, I would like This also means that a united committee formulates announcements to the government in four clear points. Firstly, the solvency regulation, i.e. the capital requirements to be imposed on occupational pension undertakings. Secondly, we are talking about the provision of information, where the social partners have taken and take on a great deal of responsibility. Freedom of contract should apply to information requirements under the new legislation. Thirdly, it concerns self-employed insurance, where the option contained in the Second Occupational Pensions Directive should be used. Fourthly, it concerns the treatment of the class of insurance called supplementary insurance, where adjustments should be made to make the regulatory framework effective. I think it is a good thing and a strength that it is a united committee that is now presenting this proposal. It is a proposal that can contribute to the future of occupational pensions being what they should be: a promise of future payments to those who work today. This shows, I think, also the ability to deal with issues that are sometimes a bit tricky both technically and politically in a good and constructive way. I think we have done that in this case. That is why, Madam President, I am once again in favour of the proposal contained in the report.
i-789d595e82d72703-511	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. Quite rightly, criticism of the government's proposal for a new regulation for occupational pension companies has been harsh. The government proposal is basically based on an EU directive aimed at creating a single market for occupational pension companies. The directive is now to be transposed into Swedish law. However, it is not the EU directive that has been wrong, but it is the implementation of Swedish law that has shown major shortcomings. The Government's proposal is contrary to the objectives of the EU Directive and would imply unjustified and costly over-regulation. Implementation is greatly delayed, and the multi-annual legislative process has been an important journey to say the least. The problem is that the government wanted to implement the directive in a more comprehensive way than the directive requires. The proposal would increase the costs for occupational pension companies, which in turn would lead to lower pensions for several million Swedish workers. Against this implementation, the social partners, who through their collective occupational pension schemes are dominant players in the occupational pension market, have protested. At the same time, the proposal fails to safeguard free competition in the Swedish occupational pension market. On a number of points, renewed consideration needs to be given to ensuring effective management of occupational pension capital and adequate protection for pensioners. Firstly, it needs to be ensured that solvency regulation has the right effect. The new regulation must always be based on the long-term investment perspectives that characterise occupational pension activities that will be run by companies. If regulation becomes too strict, it will be able to lower the level of future pension payments. The same can happen if unjustified restrictions are imposed on the markets in which occupational retirement provision companies can invest. It is important that the issue be further analysed in order to avoid excessive requirements for occupational pension undertakings. The government should therefore urgently come back with further proposals on solvency regulation for occupational pension undertakings. This should be made known to the Government by the Riksdag. Secondly, the current system of information provision, in which the social partners take a major responsibility for providing information to businesses and individuals, should not be disrupted by the new regulation. The freedom of contract in the field of occupational pensions for the social partners should be clearly expressed. Freedom of contract should apply to information requirements under the new Act on Occupational Pensions Companies and under the Insurance Distribution Act. The government should urgently return with proposals for legislative provisions of this sense. Parliament should make this known to the government as well. Thirdly, renewed consideration should be given to the rules on self-employed insurance. The position on the possibility of using the option in the Second Occupational Pensions Directive to include self-employed insurance as occupational pension insurance should be reconsidered. The government should therefore urgently investigate the possibility of using that option and return to the Riksdag on the matter. This should be made known to the Government by the Riksdag. Fourthly, Madam President, more adjustments need to be made to the treatment of the supplementary insurance class in legislation in order to make the regulatory framework effective for that type of insurance. Undertakings providing supplementary insurance shall not be effectively excluded from access to the new regulation for occupational pension undertakings. The Government should therefore urgently analyse the issue further in order to avoid such effects arising and return to the Riksdag on this issue. In particular, the analysis should focus on solvency regulation. This too should be brought to the attention of the Swedish Parliament.
i-789d595e82d72703-521	Madam President, I would like When I read the bill and the referee it was very difficult to predict what would then come. When you took note of the remis responses it seemed pretty calm. Of course, the bill is technically difficult, and many parts are very difficult to understand. But there did not seem to be widespread dissatisfaction in the referral. From the Left side we thought: We do not need to exercise. This looks cool. For us, it is important that the parties are involved in such changes. But then it broke loose. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority really wanted to see their proposed regulations in good time so that the legislation would be in place. It had interpreted the bill, bringing together the social partners, expressing their concern and dissatisfaction and calling for the proposal to be withdrawn. As has come to light at the meetings we have had with the parties, their only dissatisfaction with the bill was that it was not possible to continue self-employed insurance in the way it had done in the past. It was Finansinspektionen's interpretation of the bill that led them to put forward the dissatisfaction and called for several changes. As we, like most, are a strong defender of the Swedish model, it was obviously very serious when the parties went out and so strongly condemned the proposals. This was no longer the case only for self-employed workers' occupational pension contracts, but also for the provision of information and, in particular, capital adequacy requirements. It had completely changed the conditions for the work of the parties and for companies with occupational pensions. It was argued that this would have a very negative impact on employees' occupational pensions. A process was then initiated both outside and within the committee to find a solution with which the parties would feel safe and, above all, to ensure a good outcome of occupational pensions. 90 per cent of the country's wage and salary earners have occupational pensions through collective agreements. The committee process has therefore been extraordinary. As was said here before, I think that we have had a very good process together to find solutions. We have certainly shown that both the work of the committee and democracy are working very well. The fact that the committee in this way has several committee initiatives in one report is not quite common. Moreover, the fact that a government regulation is being drawn up shows that it is very serious about the proposed changes that we now have to consider. The parties have also expressed their satisfaction to the committee with the report, the committee initiatives and the commitments made by the government. Of course, the committee will follow up the work. In fact, I would like to make two points. The committee has had a very good process and managed to solve a very difficult situation. I would also like to say: make sure that your employers have collective agreements. It's the safest pension insurance you can ever get.
i-789d595e82d72703-528	Madam President, I would like A safe pension, few things are more important when we look at our whole lives than just that. In Sweden, we have a system in which the social partners take responsibility for making sure that the pension is available on the day it comes in order to support us in the last year of life. It is a system that has served us well and that we shall preserve. In order to secure pensions, there are extensive rules governing them. Among other things, it regulates the risks that pension companies may take with all our common money. It's extremely important. Today, the regulatory framework is a patchwork of different rules that, in summary, gives a unclear picture that is not easy to follow. With the regulatory framework that we are discussing today, we are modernising and bringing together a number of rules so that it becomes more clear and they get an update. It will make the regulatory framework clearer and more secure for the future. It has been an extremely long process. It was negotiated in the EU once by Minister for Financial Markets Peter Norman. It says something about the history. The rules will not be fully implemented until 2032. This is because they are extremely extensive and that predictability is A and O for these kinds of rules. Over all these years, there has been a wide-ranging dialogue, particularly with the social partners. Nevertheless, as Ulla Andersson very well described, a number of issues arose during the committee's proceedings. It's unusual. It has placed high demands on many. It has been about good dialogue with the parties in the committee and dialogue between the parliament and the government. As Ulla Andersson said, my picture is that the Riksdag has shown strength here. Our dialogue-based work in Sweden has shown what we can deliver when we talk to each other. There are many of us who should be proud of this. There's still work to be done. The government will urgently return with changes linked to capital requirements, self-employed workers, the possibility of regulating information provision and supplementary insurance. The government will work hard to come back quickly, just as Parliament and the committee want. There is a transitional period. This means that the new pension companies that will be formed will have the rules in place in good time, although there will now be a few months' delay with the final details. I also understand that the social partners are reassured that clarity will be in place on time. Ulla Andersson has made a very honest and straightforward description of the work. It is worth noting that none of the opposition's parties chose to present follow-up motions. It must be interpreted as saying that when the bill came to committee, everyone was satisfied. Then, at a late stage, new information came. The new information has been handled in a responsible and dialogue-based way. With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-789d595e82d72703-537	Madam President, I would like At the outset, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the Finance Committee's report No 14 with the very exciting name 'A more effective right to move insurance savings'. The introduction of the right to move personal insurance with savings, which is usually referred to as pension insurance, but which may be much more than that, was introduced in practice and in reality about twelve years ago. This applies to insurance policies that may be of slightly different tax categories, which may have slightly different purposes, but which have in common that they contain savings, a collection of capital. What the right to move is about is the right to move their saved capital from one insurer to another. The previous system, where once a cartoon insurance of this nature was forever locked up with the insurance company where you signed it, today feels a bit out of time, to say the least. However, it must be said that it was included in the conditions for how the companies then calculated costs, returns and a certain guaranteed refund to the customers. In reality, a more consumer-friendly development in this area began at the turn of the century by the possibility of agreeing on the right to move new insurance policies. But as I said, it was only introduced on 1 July 2007 for all newly signed insurance policies. There was and of course there is an extremely important consumer perspective here. Giving consumers greater opportunities and rights to influence their savings was, of course, the background to the new legislation. Madam President, I would like In the beginning there was a bit of the Wild West in the area. A rather heated debate arose about unfair and extremely high costs and fees on the part of the companies, allegedly aimed at countering the transfer of capital. As of 2015, there is a type of industry agreement, where Finansinspektionen has also been an active party, about increased transparency regarding fees, what they contain and how they are calculated. How effective the agreement has been, I leave it unsaid, but I can see that the debate has been much less noisy since its creation. Perhaps the increased transparency has given the desired answers. The government's current proposal aims to further strengthen the position of consumers in this market. By clearly limiting what insurance companies may charge for a move, namely the administrative management of the buy-back and the remaining acquisition costs, but no longer than ten years from the date of subscription, a clear limit is set on the amount of the fees. The bill is a balanced reform that takes into account the entire savings collective. We protect those who want to move their insurance while limiting any risks to the less active savers. It is a good consumer policy, and it is therefore gratifying that there is broad agreement within the committee in this regard. Madam President, I would like In a historical context, it was in practice only the insurance policies currently referred to as traditional insurance that existed on the Swedish market. In line with the entry into the fund insurance scheme, the market changed significantly. In fund insurance, the responsibility lies with the insured person, with the consumer. This requires active action from the customer with the possibility of high returns, but also with the full risk of a financial bottom. Fund insurance is based on activity, turnover of investments and short investment horizons. In traditional insurance, the entire administrative responsibility lies with the insurance company. It requires a minor, or no, effort from the insured person. But this may find it difficult to compete in terms of returns with an active and knowledgeable fund insurance saver. It can be described as traditional insurance being something for those who want safe insurance savings but who are not prepared to actively manage their savings themselves, but knowingly hand it over to someone else against certain guarantees. And believe me – those customers also exist. Madam President, I would like Against this background, the Committee on Finance, also in broad agreement, is now calling on the government to urgently return to Parliament with a bill that clearly distinguishes fund and deposit insurance from traditional insurance in this respect. This is done with the clear aim of further limiting the fees for the repurchase and transfer of capital in fund and custody insurance. An important consumer requirement can therefore be met. It is very reasonable for Parliament and the government to be on the side of consumers, but as far as possible it must be on the side of all consumers. It should not only apply to the most active, but should be on the side of all consumers. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I will just say a few words about a motion contained in the report which deals with further measures to increase the rate of mobility in the field of occupational pensions. The exerciser notes that despite low charges in the area, the migration propensity is low. That is an interesting observation in the light of the proposals in the report. If the charges do not have a bearing on the mover's propensity, what is required? And above all: Is it the actual move in itself that is the goal of the exerciser? Where do those ideas come from? I have probably heard a number of other players in the market who wish for increased mobility in the area of occupational pensions as well. But if the customers do not want it, despite low fees, is it the move in itself that is the goal? I'm afraid so. This is a development that hardly benefits consumers, but well for some market players. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-789d595e82d72703-552	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The possibilities of moving pension savings from one company to another have been discussed for many years. There is a right to move in Sweden, but it is not unlimited. It is clear that there is a need for sharp and vigorous improvements in the right to move pensions, and in this respect the Government's proposal was far too inadequate. It is the savers who should be protected, not the insurance companies. Private pension savings are becoming increasingly important for the final pension, thereby increasing the need for consumer protection to allow a saver to opt out of expensive and poor pension solutions that over time mean lower pensions for individuals and large revenues for pension companies. An important step in this is an improved possibility to move pension savings. The Government's proposal was aimed at improving the right to move, but it was insufficient and did not take into account the key differences that exist in different insurance solutions. The high removal fees would in many cases remain in practice and most of the savers' capital would be excluded from the changes. Among other things, the bill makes no distinction between traditional insurance and fund and depository insurance as regards the fees to be charged for the transfer of insurance assets. While traditional pension insurance has collective insurance elements and often invests in more illiquid assets, which require some lock-in to function, fund and custody insurance has different rules of play. The right to move can therefore be more generous for fund and depot insurance. Instead, the government has chosen to lump them together, and the regulatory framework for fund and depot insurance is therefore weak and toothless from a consumer's perspective. Madam President, I would like Against this background, the committee proposes that the Riksdag make an announcement to the Government to urgently return to Parliament with legislative proposals that clearly distinguish fund and deposit insurance from traditional insurance policies. The purpose of this is to further limit the fees for the repurchase and transfer of fund and custody insurance. More specifically, the government should come back with a legislative proposal on fund and custody insurance that is designed according to the following guidelines. Firstly, the removal fees should be limited. The starting point is that they should only correspond to the direct costs of the administrative management of repurchases or transfers calculated for insurance of the same type. Secondly, a ceiling on the removal charge should be introduced, in which the costs are expressed in SEK and krona and follow the administrative cost of moving. This makes the transfer fee clear and transparent to the consumer when taking out an insurance policy. Thirdly, insurance policies signed before 1 July 2007 should be subject to the right of removal in the same way as insurance policies signed subsequently. Fourthly, and finally, the possibility of introducing a free amount in the event of the transfer of small amounts of insurance and the automatic transfer of the amount of insurance under the free amount in the event of a change of employer should be investigated. This would make it easier for the individual, who is currently in danger of having a large part of the capital eaten up by charges for the transfer of small amounts. Pension savings can be seen as deferred earned income to ensure livelihood during retirement. It is therefore of great importance from the consumer perspective that the market functions satisfactorily and efficiently. It is now up to the government, like us here in Parliament, to stand up for the pension savers.
i-789d595e82d72703-562	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have in recent years pushed the issue of the right to move in the Swedish Parliament, in the Finance Committee. That is why it was a very welcome and urgent message for all small savers in the country when the government announced during the last parliamentary term that it would come forward with a proposal that would improve the statutory right to move in the pension insurance market. The background is that the Swedish Competition Authority 2016 and Finansinspektionen 2017 stated in their respective reports that moving pension insurance is expensive and complex. There are a number of barriers that make switching difficult, including high charges that you as a customer have to pay if you want to switch to a prospectively more advantageous alternative. Therefore, it was welcome when the Government presented its intention to address this problem, in accordance with the views expressed by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Then this was a consultation round and came back in the form of a more or less watered-down proposal. I was going to comment on the cost of procurement, because it is in these that there have been significant deteriorations in relation to the original proposal. It is also around them that much of the debate has revolved. When an insurance company or any company sells a product or service, costs arise related to the sales process. As in this case, it may be a matter of commissions to the insurance intermediaries. Some insurance companies have chosen to balance this cost as an asset item and then write it off for a number of years, instead of taking it directly on the profit and loss account of the year and thus burdening the profit and loss account of the year. It is therefore logical that part of the insurance industry is concerned about a long depreciation period, as the option involves significant impairments of current assets. This is the core of the issue: The companies have the right to make this accounting method part of their business model, but they do not own the right to have this business model protected by the Swedish parliament. It is a fundamental market economy principle that competition contributes to development, innovation and effective pricing of goods and services. This is therefore a clear example of what happens when competition is allowed to be restricted: consumers are allowed to bear the cost of unjustified price increases and welfare losses. I have to say that I am somewhat surprised by the government's offensive against people's private finances, especially when one admits the problem. How come you make a 180-degree turn in such a short time? It's not a small position transfer you've made when you've gone from five years of acquisition costs to a doubling. In another way, however, I am not surprised by this action. First, you go after people's savings by raising the ISK tax. Then they sided with insurance giants and refused to improve the right to move. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats have consistently and undeniably stood up for all the small savers in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The bill subsequently met with opposition in committee, so much resistance that we pressed the government parties and now reached a majority for the proposals necessary to put things right. These are the four points relating to the acquisition costs, the ceiling of the charge, the retroactivity and the amount of the release. For this I would like to take this opportunity to thank the other parties, especially the Christian Democrats who, together with the SD, have been driving this issue. But I must say, Madam President, that I do not feel entirely comfortable now leaving this responsibility to the government to honour. As is well known, announcements are based on constitutional practice, which means that the government is not legally bound to comply with them. The government has previously described announcements in terms of parliamentary wills, which makes me genuinely worried and gives every reason to monitor the issue very closely in the future. The Riksdag also has tools to deal with a situation where the responsible minister does not follow an announcement. The government must now deliver. I hope that the announcement will be honoured and that all small savers in the country will actually gain the consumer power that is socio-economically motivated. I support the committee's proposal.
i-789d595e82d72703-572	Madam President, I would like Ingemar Nilsson said in his introduction that it was an exciting headline. I think we have slightly different opinions about what excitement consists of. I can see that, in this case too, it may have been a slightly different process in committee than it usually is. However, I can also note that when the committee agreed to separate custody and fund insurance from traditional ones, we were also able to find a common way forward in strengthening the position of consumers on the financial market. As I have interpreted the government, it has been based on the existing legislation, which regulates these insurance policies jointly. This was also the case under the bourgeois government. Then, when there have been various political initiatives, including in motions from the Left Party, among others, the process has been included and it has been seen that insurance can be distinguished in legislation, which would improve the position of consumers on the financial market. It is reasonable to distinguish these insurance products from each other. Traditional insurance is a long-term agreement in which companies take responsibility not only for those who move their insurance policies but also, of course, for the vast majority that remain. Together with those who remain in insurance, there is mutual risk. Customers have signed long-term contracts with the company, and the company has made long-term investments to comply with those agreements. That way, a depository or a trust fund insurance doesn't work. This report therefore proposes an announcement to the government to come back as a matter of urgency with legislative proposals that distinguish the different forms of insurance from each other. The purpose of this is, as has been shown here in the speaker's chair, to substantially limit the fees for repurchases and for the transfer of fund and deposit insurance. The left-wing party's proposal to introduce a ceiling for the removal fee in SEK and the krona is also included in the announcement, which we naturally appreciate. People should be able to know what their contracts mean and what consequences they have in terms of costs before they take out their insurance, not be extradited to the companies' hard to understand and many times impenetrable calculations afterwards. The notice also includes a requirement for the right to move custody and mutual fund insurance underwritten before 1 July 2007, i.e. retroactive legislation. When traditional assurances are not included in this requirement, we have made the assessment that it can be part of the government's work on new legislation, especially as there is a glitch about not making decisive arguments against it. It is not customary for us to be dealing with retroactive legislation, but with that piece of wood we think this is worth looking at. Overall, we believe that the report and the announcement strengthen the position of consumers, reduce their costs, increase competition and put downward pressure on consumers' charges and thus improve their private economic situation in the future. I support the committee's proposal.
i-789d595e82d72703-580	Madam President, I would like The possibility of moving your pension is important in two ways. On the one hand, it is a fundamental principle of consumer policy that you have the opportunity to influence what is your own, and on the other hand it is an implicit threat to a company that is considering being careless with our pension money that then the customers can simply leave. It is important that the right to move is real. We need to deal with the degeneratives that still exist with ruthless prices for relocations. That is why it is extremely important, the step that we are now taking through clearer rules on the costs that insurance undertakings may take into account when setting fees for repurchases and removals. We are taking extremely important steps with the bill that the government has put on our table. However, further work remains to be done. We have had discussions in committee, and as Ulla Andersson explained, we have agreed that the possibility of distinguishing between different business lines is a key element of those talks. We agree that this is something that we are giving the government the task of coming back on together with a few other points. We should not be satisfied until we really have a really good regulation so that the right to move is real. When we consider whether it is good enough, it is important that we consider the right both for those who want to move, who want to be active, and for anyone who chooses not to move. Their consumer protection is also important. I am referring to this because my picture is that it often disappears in the debate. Their right to retain the value of what they have put in is just as important, and it must not skewed in any direction. In doing so, I also think it is important to bear in mind that it is reasonable to assume that the pensions of the group that chooses to retain their money and does not move them follow the same pattern as the other pensions. It is a group that tends to have lower education and access to less information. It is simply a group in society that we must defend more politically. I think it is important that we include this in the discussion as we continue to work on this in the future. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-789d595e82d72703-591	Mr President, I would like to This case concerns changes to the previous tax agreement between Portugal and Sweden, which was negotiated in 2002 and entered into force from 31 December 2003. As with all tax treaties, it is a matter of avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion for, in this case, taxes on income, including pensions. The Government's proposal and a unanimous tax committee is to adopt a new law amending the Tax Agreement Act between Sweden and Portugal. I support the proposal. The changes mean that pensions and similar benefits from previous individual employment may also be taxed in the source State. The source state is the state in which the income has been created. In this new agreement, Sweden will ensure that double taxation does not take place by making a statement. If the pension is taxed in the State of residence of the person receiving the pension, taxation in the Member State of origin may take place, but not earlier than 1 January 2023. The new tax agreement also introduces the new international minimum tax treaty standards developed in the framework of international cooperation to prevent tax evasion. The Swedish tax treaty policy has long been that the source state should have the primary right of taxation. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, has developed a model for bilateral tax treaties in which an article states that pensions from previous individual employment are to be taxed only in the Member State of residence. The home Member State is the State in which the income earner resides and/ or is written. For a long time Sweden had a reservation against the article to clarify the Swedish contract policy. However, since 2005, the commentary on the OECD's new model agreement shows that source state taxation is an equivalent alternative to resident state taxation. In the old agreement with Portugal, Sweden accepted in a compromise to waive the right of taxation of pensions from previous individual employment as a source state. This was done on the basis of what was at the time: that taxation should take place in Portugal. In 2009, Portugal introduced special tax rules which, in short, enabled people who moved there to apply for membership of a group that did not have to include, inter alia, pensions for taxation. This was the basis for the compromise that Sweden agreed to in 2002. It has never been the purpose of the tax agreement with Portugal to create a general tax exemption for certain income. In Sweden, tax deductions are allowed for pensions at the employer's or the individual's place of taxation at the time of withdrawal. Thus, the principle that pensions are taxed when they are levied is that of the source State or the State of residence. If a State of residence, in this case Portugal, fails to comply with what was the intention of previous agreements, taxation may be made by the source State of Sweden, which pays the pension. Sweden is not alone in thinking this. Several other countries have acted to influence Portugal on this issue and have received new agreements. Finland has even terminated the tax treaty with Portugal, as no change took place. Mr President, I would like to Of course, in an increasingly common Europe, citizens should be able to move and write in any Member State whenever they wish. We Social Democrats also take the view that it is the nation states that own their tax policies, and it should not be subject to any European uniformity for devaluation purposes. A relatively high tax charge on broad tax bases is and remains the basis for building and developing welfare, regardless of the country in question. It is therefore important, in relations between the Member States, for example, to close holes in the tax system, such as the one we have had in the agreement with Portugal, through tax treaties. It is righteous to both charge and pay taxes. It is gratifying that all the parties in the committee are in favour of the bill as a whole and, therefore, are now saying yes to this tax agreement, which closes the loophole that exists with regard to Portugal.
i-789d595e82d72703-602	Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention the indecent and irresponsible rhetoric that preceded the amendment of the tax agreement with Portugal and to clarify some of the misconceptions that have been spread. The fact is that the Social Democratic Government has whipped up an agitated mood, quite unnecessarily. There has been talk of loopholes in the law, completely unfounded. It is not a loophole but entirely in accordance with the OECD Model Agreement that Portugal has the right to tax Swedish private occupational pensions. The fact that Portugal introduced a new legal framework in 2009 in which EU residents are taxed under specific rules for ten years is a completely different matter. This is a matter for Portugal, and it was introduced in particular in order to attract displaced Portuguese people from France and Brazil, among others. But this obviously also applies to other EU citizens, because EU law requires equal treatment. If the Portuguese Government has judged that it benefits its own country that pensioners move there, consume and create jobs, it is right and good for them to have rules that promote this. Usually, these EU pensioners pay more tax in Portugal than a Portuguese person does throughout his life. For example, the buyer of a dwelling pays a tax of between 5 and 7 per cent. When buying a car, you pay car accis at 35% of the car's price plus VAT on this tax. The property tax there is twice as high as the Swedish property tax. They also pay tolls, consumption taxes and so on. Portugal has a combined tax burden of 35%, but as pensions are very low, many Portuguese pensioners pay no tax at all. But today's debate is about the retired Swedes who live in Portugal. That group is rather small – according to information from the Pension Authority 1,448 people, who pay SINK tax on their general pensions, tax on occupational pensions from the public sector, tax on private pension savings, coupon tax on dividends from Swedish companies, return tax on capital insurance and return tax on individual savings accounts. There is therefore no question of tax exemption. Of these 1 448 people, half may also receive private occupational pensions. These people have been called tax evaders. It has been gloated that the sweet bread days for them are over. An idea has been created that these people are somehow not doing the right thing. It's all wrong. These people have paid taxes throughout their working lives and are now paying taxes on all parts of their pensions, except for the very private occupational pension. There are many reasons to move abroad in the autumn. But it is not something you do casually just to pick out your private occupational pension and then return to Sweden to burden healthcare, as has been claimed. If the government fears such arrangements, it is better to review the rules for who is entitled to healthcare in the country, which is, moreover, much needed given that, for example, those who are illegally staying in Sweden have the right to healthcare. Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that we are just as much against large groups of people being wrongly called tax evaders being against tax evasion. One thing is certain: the agreement with Portugal could have been handled much better. Magdalena Andersson has said little diplomatically that we have now dragged the Portuguese to the negotiating table and threatened to terminate the agreement. It is therefore the lack of alternatives that makes us support the decision. The termination of the double taxation convention would have unforeseen and very serious consequences, not least for trade between Sweden and Portugal. Therefore, the government should use diplomacy and not threats of termination. It would be interesting to know how many hours of work have been spent at the Ministry of Finance to drive changes to tax legislation in another country regarding a few hundred displaced Swedes who no longer use Swedish welfare, or rather what is left of Swedish welfare. What the government should do is make sure that everyone who lives in Sweden has a job and pays taxes. The government should also primarily focus on those who pay taxes in Sweden getting something back for their hard-earned tax money.
i-789d595e82d72703-614	Mr President, I would like to The purpose of international tax treaties is to allocate tax rights between states. The aim is to avoid multiple taxing of income of different kinds, but also to create tax exemptions for certain incomes by not taxing them in any country. This was also the purpose when the agreement between Sweden and Portugal was signed at one time. The subsequent changes in Portugal have led to a situation which is therefore not in line with the intentions that existed at the time the agreement was signed. The aim was never to grant tax exemption for certain income in both countries. When conditions change, as they have done after Portugal introduced the so-called NHR rules, agreements must also be able to be updated. That's what's happening now. I would like to point out in this connection, like previous speakers, that the tax exemption that has arisen has concerned certain income. It is not the case that Swedish pensioners have lived a life of total tax exemption in Portugal, as it has sounded in the debate, not least from the Minister for Finance. On the contrary, many local taxes and taxes are paid at home in Sweden, which Boriana Åberg previously had in mind. We Christian Democrats are therefore not behind the rhetoric used by Magdalena Andersson in the media discussion on this. The Committee on Taxation has been unanimous in dealing with this matter, and there are no reservations or opinions from any party. This indicates that everyone believes that it is reasonable for tax to be paid on this income. However, the level of taxation can and must of course be discussed. The Christian Democrats have been pushing for a long time for lower taxes, generally but also especially for pensioners. Our long-term objective is to reduce the overall tax burden. Reducing taxes on income from work is a particular priority. As is well known, pension is deferred salary and should therefore of course be included in this. Having said that, Mr President, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Taxation to be approved.
i-789d595e82d72703-620	Mr President, I would like to The right to life is the most important right that the state has to protect. It belongs to the absolute core of human rights. At the same time, the life sentence is our most interventional measure against an individual. It is therefore with a special awe of the parliamentary mission that today I am taking part in this debate on the punishment for murder, or more specifically on the cases in which the law's most severe punishment can be imposed when someone has been murdered. Sorrow is love that doesn't know where to go. The Order comes from a child in the Swedish Church's children's activities in Linköping. They were recently reproduced at a funeral that I attended. The meaning captures exactly what happens to the environment when a person is taken away from us. When a person is killed, it is not just a world that is extinguished for the one whose heart stops beating. Death changes the world forever for those close to the victim who live on. When the child's love for his mother doesn't know where to go, it turns into an excruciating grief. When the father's love for his child does not know where to go, the heart is filled with the immeasurable weight of grief. A murder kills the life of the murdered and obscures the world for those who live on. Every murder affects so many more than the murdered. Mr President, I would like to For several years, the gap between what the courts considered to be legally correct and what the public considered fair has grown in terms of the punishment for murder. There is a strong common will in this House to narrow this gap by making the life sentence the starting point for murder and not as now the exception. The purpose of the government's bill is crystal clear: More life sentences will be imposed. The most common punishment for murderers should be the law's strictest, i.e. life imprisonment. That and nothing else should be the natural penalty when someone has been murdered. Ultimately, it is about confidence in the rule of law and democracy. We have many cases in which most of us have seen the obvious absurdity of the sentences that have been imposed. We have seen how perpetrators escaped life sentences when women were murdered at home in front of their own children. The proposal we are now going to adopt gives the courts quite different opportunities to impose life sentences in such situations. Current legislation today provides guidance as to when the life sentence is to be taken into account by means of the words aggravating circumstances. Now the government proposes that the courts judge on the basis of the following legal text: a special consideration should be given to whether the act was preceded by careful planning, marked by a special proposal, aimed at promoting or concealing other crimes, suffered severely for the victim or otherwise been particularly ruthless. ..................................................... By 2014, a legislative change was made to ensure that more murderers would face the life sentence. The then alliance government made the same assessment as the current government of the need to tighten up legislation. However, this legislation was a failure after the Supreme Court concluded in 2016 that the design of the law could not give rise to any different application in the courts of the country than that prevailing before the amendment of the law. Differently, the courts judge as usual after the HD ruling, and most murderers are now not sentenced to life imprisonment. It is therefore a good thing that the government, with broad support in Parliament, is making a new and sharper proposal, so that the life sentence for murder is used in a way that better corresponds to what legislators and the public have wanted for a long time. Mr President, I would like to Regarding the question raised in committee to remove the limitation on the murder of offenders under 21 years of age, I would like to say that the government is working on this issue. There is now a preparation of the Youth Reduction Investigation proposal in the Sloped Penalty Discount report for young adults. We believe that the work in progress should not be pre-empted and are therefore not prepared to support such a declaration as is proposed in the report. A complete lightening of urgent issues relating to the law's most severe punishment is important and has now been initiated by the government. That's good. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-789d595e82d72703-632	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we in this House seem to have a broad consensus on the existence of the life sentence and that most parties agree that the life sentence should be the normal penalty for a crime such as murder. The fact that the life sentence is normal for murder has been the intention of the legislature for quite some time in our country, yet this has not been reflected in the judgments we too often read. Now the Committee on Legal Affairs intends to make it clearer and more consistent, in which murder will generate life sentences. In the report, the Swedish Democrats, together with other opposition parties, have added passages that make it clearer. About a week ago we were able to read in the newspapers about an order murder where a guilty 28-year-old was sentenced to 18 years in prison for murder, even though the district court considered on six points that there were aggravating circumstances: The district court ruling states that the defendant has been detained for one and a half years as a mitigating circumstance, and the sentence was therefore not life but 18 years in prison. This shows that a clearer statement is required in the law that killings between criminal networks or with a purpose of profit, for example, should always lead to a life sentence. The law also needs to be clearer, so that murder generally leads to life imprisonment. It is particularly stomach-strong when women can be beaten to death during a long and painful course without the penalty being life. Even more repugnant is the fact that one and the same perpetrator can kill several women, spend time in prison, come out and kill women again without being sentenced to life imprisonment. In this context, it may be worth bearing in mind that the Left Party wants to abolish the life sentence and guarantee a repeated opportunity for all misogynistic murderers to be released and murdered again. The Left Party has tabled that proposal as a reservation in the report, and they intend to vote for it. This is something that the Swedish Democrats never intend to support. The Swedish Democrats want to change a great many sentences in many ways. We want, for example, to impose a sanction on storage sentences, in which a documented dangerous individual should be able to be locked up for an extended period of time after a fixed term sentence if the individual has not been able to be sentenced to a life sentence. In essence, we support the current report in the hope that the life sentence will be the normal penalty for a crime such as murder, but we also have a reservation aimed at carefully following the practice of the courts and returning with changes if the legislator's intentions are not reflected in practice. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-789d595e82d72703-641	Mr President, I would like to The home is the most dangerous place for a woman to be. It's the home that in 80% of cases is the crime scene when a woman is murdered. It is in the home that the relatively well-established man with a stable existence and a job performs deadly violence against women. It's the man that so many of us think would never do anything that's just doing something. Men's violence against women is different from men's violence against men. Around half of the perpetrators of deadly violence against women are not previously convicted of any crime. Only a quarter of them have been convicted of violent crimes in the past. With regard to gang crime and shootings, it is drug crime, illegal weapons, unemployment and a lack of stability and education that triggers violence. Violence looks different. Murder is done for various reasons. But in common with the perpetrators, they are men. Men murder and beat women, but above all other men. Men are perpetrators, and men are victims. It's because the perpetrators have so much in common but yet so much that separates them that I find hard to see that everyone should be sentenced to the same kind of punishment in the crime of murder. The life sentence is not the only answer. The victim won't get his life back. On the other hand, men's violence can be drastically reduced. However, this is not done through increased penalties, for men who strike have already crossed so many limits that the punishment does not matter. Men's violence can only be stopped by men stopping fighting and being violent and stop being raised to believe that women and children are inferior beings. Believe me: I wish that a long punishment could stop men's violence against women, but this is an epidemic that seems to have no end. I wish a long sentence would put an end to the shootings in Malmö so that we don't get more parents who can never say good night to their baby again in the evening. But the drugs and weapons will remain in existence despite increased punishment. This is ruthless violence that costs human lives and enormous sums to society. Therefore, quite different measures are needed. We need a changed norm of masculinity and a more equal society. Unfortunately, when the crime is committed, there is a need for solid victim support and special compensation for women who are victims of men's violence. Support is needed for women's shelters, a social services that can support and housing to move to. That is what we should be debating today. Research results both in Sweden and abroad show that detention penalties are ineffective. Correctional services no longer demand punishment, but believe that the agency can do more and better work within the framework of parole with treatment programmes and care in freedom. Both the then and present Director General of the Prison Service are calling for the development of sentences in freedom instead of longer periods of detention. The Crime Prevention Council considers that there is no proven crime prevention effect, that it is inappropriate to legislate on the basis of quantitative objectives and that the proposal fails to comply with the underlying principles of proportionality. With this proposal, the courts will be bound to the ultimate penalty rather than, in the case of all other crimes, based on proportionality. Yes, anyone who commits a crime should have a punishment. The penalty should be proportionate to the crime. This is why, among other things, the Left Party has supported the executions for murders that were made in 2009, when it was introduced that more circumstances could be taken into account when measuring the sentence. But what is happening now is that this principle is removed. Mr President, I would like to The prison service is in a very strained position with overcrowded institutions and detention centres. The risk of conflict and violence increases, and staff have a lower working environment. We do not yet know what effect the overcrowding will have on the propensity to relapse, but it is probably only a matter of time before we get an answer to that. Here the government owes the answer: What does the government intend to do? You raise the penalty for every crime in the penal code, but where are the investments in the penitentiary? Where are the bets on those who will treat all the clients who are being punished? When a murder has been committed, it is already too late. There is no punishment to bring the murdered person back. There is no remedy for what has happened. The penalty comes when it is already too late, when the crime has already been committed and the inexplicable has happened. The victim can only get redress if the crime is not committed at all. I request the approval of reservation 1 and the rejection of the bill.
i-789d595e82d72703-654	Mr President, I would like to Linda Westerlund Snecker says in the speaker's chair that it is the well-established man who would seemingly never be able to murder who is usually the murderer and who beats women in their homes until they die. However, there are also cases where convicted women's murderers and women's abusers of the prison system are deemed to have a high risk of relapse and are still released, and then again be able to abuse, persecute and torture women and, at worst, also kill women – and then be sentenced to a time sentence. Linda Westerlund Snecker thinks this is reasonable, and she also wants these people to come out after serving two thirds of the sentence, that is 12 years in prison with today's legislation. So these people can come out and kill themselves again. I just want to know how the Left Party justifies its position on abolishing the life sentence in this report, when there are obviously very dangerous people who repeatedly destroy the lives of a great many women and who put horror in society in general. Don't these men deserve to be in prison for life? Please explain this!
i-789d595e82d72703-658	Mr President, I would like to It is worth noting how the Swedish Democrats pretend to care about women's vulnerability. It is almost ludicrous in view of your witch hunt for what you call a left-wing liberal feminist, such as me, who, year after year, raise these issues in the Swedish Parliament, who are involved in driving through punishment, consent laws and higher crime harm compensation for women who are victims of men's violence. The Swedish Democrats are brutally fixated on the length of the sentence. That is the only thing you can do in the field of justice policy. On all other issues, you are completely incompetent, especially when it comes to crime prevention. I am the person who, most in this committee, lifts up men's violence, how masculinity standards shape you men to much easier commit acts of violence and how men are raised into a norm that makes young boys on Malmö's streets today resort to illegal weapons flowing in. You're laughing at this. You think it is left-wing liberal nonsense when we question the very structure of society, that is, we have a superorder of men and a subordination of women that is so pervasive in every policy area. It is not just about this committee, it is about the whole development of society. It is something that you are completely uninterested in. The only thing you care about and talk about today is to lock up a few men on very long sentences. It's not serious.
i-789d595e82d72703-663	Mr President, I would like to So this is the Left Party's answer to a rather concrete question, that is, how to justify abolishing the life sentence for women's murderers who, perhaps repeatedly because of a sick, distorted view of women, have murdered several women in their lives. To that is the answer of the Left Party sweeping accusations widely in this House without any concrete argument whatsoever. It is a violation of all the victims and their relatives who have been subjected to legislation that will result in the perpetrators of those who have been murdered receiving a time-limited punishment and, thanks to the two thirds release, will be free people within a close time, which the Left Party is so keenly defending. For the Swedish Democrats, it is clear that there are people who must be able to be locked up for life in our country if we are really to secure our society in terms of gang-criminal environments and violence in close relationships. It is a matter of people who are unable to hold their minds together so much that they can stay away from violence, and it can be addiction or other mental illnesses that are at the root – it can be anything. One thing is certain, namely that the Swedish Democrats will never stand up for the policy advocated by the Left Party by granting guaranteed rights to life-threatening people to be released in order to commit new crimes when they have committed crimes as serious as murder and have perhaps repeatedly killed women and men.
i-789d595e82d72703-666	Mr President, I would like to I did not hear Adam Marttinen mention once the problems we are talking about, namely that men's violence destroys society. That is the problem with your policy, that is, the enormous obsession with punishment – how long someone should be locked up. It is the only policy you have to come up with. You haven't even talked about the crime prevention work, that is, how we make sure that rapes don't happen, that shootings don't happen. Not once! This is uninteresting for the policy of the Swedish Democrats. You want Sweden to be in a precarious situation. You want it to be postponed on Malmö's streets because you can then come up with proposals to set up more checks, more cameras and reduce asylum immigration. You want women to feel insecure and to be afraid when they go out on the streets because you can then come up with proposals for long, harsh penalties. Then you can talk in this speaker's chair about people instead of men. Again you say people without coming to the heart of the matter, namely men's violence against women. That's why women are afraid of what you're talking about, that is, being raped or murdered. 80% of the women murdered are murdered at home by a person with whom they have a close relationship. But you don't want to talk about this. You and your party want to blame asylum immigration and immigrants as the big problem and the reason for the insecurity in Sweden. It's fake!
i-789d595e82d72703-670	I remind you quietly that we in this House do not usually say you straight across the floor but speak through the President.
i-789d595e82d72703-671	Mr President, I would like to Taking another person's life through murder is the worst crime that can be committed. Therefore, the punishment for committing murder should also be the hardest punishment. The bill now under discussion is that more of those convicted of murder should be sentenced to the most severe punishment available, life imprisonment, than is happening today. Careful planning, characterised by a specific proposal, with a view to promoting or concealing other crimes, which have caused severe suffering to the victim or have otherwise been particularly ruthless, are the elements mentioned in the proposal. These are, unfortunately, descriptions with which the murders that occur are often associated. The fact that this is about the gravest crime with the harshest penalty means that we, as legislators, must be careful in the considerations we make. It is not possible to be careless when it comes to designing penalties that lock people on to fixed-term life sentences. We must be careful and correct. Mr President, I would like to The former Government of Reinfeldt 2 and the then Minister of Justice Beatrice Ask tried in 2014 to do exactly what we are doing today, namely tighten the penalty for murder so that more of those sentenced will be given life imprisonment. It didn't go as planned that time. There was carelessness in the work of the law, and the result was that it could not be applied in court. Instead of what was intended, namely, that more should be sentenced to harsher sentences for murder, the result was that fewer were sentenced to life. No matter what you think in substance, whether it was right or wrong, you cannot see more clearly than what a political failure is. The question then is whether the parties involved have learned something from this handling. I'm afraid it's doubtful. What has happened is the following. The Committee on Justice received the proposal to deal with it. There was a great deal of agreement in the committee on the proposals in the bill – it wanted to go that way. But the Moderates were not satisfied but wanted more things into the props, and they gathered a majority to initiate a process in the Committee on Lawmaking. This may have a few different consequences. One is that during a period of about a year there may be three different laws for the same offence. The one now, the one on the table and the one to be processed. Of course, laws should be able to change over time, and it is very important to be able to do so. But having such twitchiness is not good. But worse than that, Mr President, I see a risk that the situation that arose last time will arise again. In Sweden we have a system of preparation of matters – the parliament makes laws, but it is the government that prepares. Formally, the Riksdag can handle the whole process. There have been times when the Riksdag has tried to do so, for example in 2008 when the Alliance Government could not agree on the issue of same sex marriage because the Christian Democrats resisted at the Ministry of Social Affairs. But the other parties wanted to get the proposal through. Fortunately, it did. In many other cases, however, laws have not been passed from grain to loaf through parliamentary treatment. Mr President, I would like to The decision we are going to make on this product is a good one. Hopefully this time we will succeed in what the Riksdag did not succeed in 2014. With this, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 4.
i-789d595e82d72703-680	Mr President, I would like to I do not think it has escaped anyone in this House or anyone who takes part in the debate in the gallery or at home in front of television that unfortunately there is growing insecurity in that country. Nor do I think it has escaped anyone that Sweden has changed in many ways, sometimes for the better, but in terms of insecurity undoubtedly for the worse. Shooting occurs so often that many people in the country wake up and not only ask themselves how it is pushed but rather where it has been shot last night. This year there have been up to 200 blasts, although it is still only November. In fact, you have to go to the other side of the world, towards Afghanistan, to find countries or areas with as many blasts as there have been in Sweden. Unfortunately, more and more people are also falling victim to the gang wars that are currently taking place before our eyes. Malmö is an example. But the problems are not isolated to that particular city. Unfortunately, they are also found in more and more other cities. This is spreading further and further down the age range, with 15-year-olds shot to death in streets and squares and children who themselves commit crimes against other children. It is a completely new type of crime and above all a whole new magnitude of these problems that we have probably never seen before in Sweden. The bad news is of course that this is what Sweden looks like. The good news is it doesn't have to be this way. It is therefore not a natural law that Sweden should be compared with Afghanistan in terms of explosions. It is no law of nature that we should have a gang war that is rolled out in front of our eyes and that affects so many people. It is possible to change this situation. Then it's about doing several things at the same time. Investing in the police is important – we need additional police tools. But we also need penalties that reflect the seriousness of the crime, not least in terms of the law's most severe punishment: life imprisonment. As previously described in the pulpit, the Alliance government made an attempt to tighten the penalty here. I think that was a legitimate ambition. Legislation was produced, but because of its wording it was then not applicable in the courts. It was regrettable that this was the case. Now the government is making another attempt. I think that is basically good – we welcome the change in legislation so that we can ensure that more people who commit very serious crimes, such as murder, are sentenced to life imprisonment. But it is also important, Mr President, to try to learn from what has been done in the past. We fear that there is an obvious risk that the government, with the product that has now been put on the table, will repeat the very mistake made by the Alliance Government in the past, namely the formulation of legislation that is not sufficiently clearly worded. We know from experience that it will then be difficult for the courts to apply the legislation and then there is a clear risk that the legislation will not have the effect that I really think most of us in this House – not all of us, but most of us – actually want to see. For us Moderates, the starting point is that life imprisonment should apply in the event of murder. We believe that this should be the starting point for legislation, and then we can deviate if there are extenuating circumstances. That model we would have preferred Moderates. It is not news what we think here, but we have been running this for a long time. But such a change needs to be investigated. At the same time, we think that this is so important and so central, not least in the light of the developments we have at the moment, that we must do what is in our power to ensure that the legislation put forward at Parliament's table is as good as it can be given the conditions. When the government does not do what it should do, or perhaps does not listen carefully enough to what the other parties think and think, the opposition in the parliament may try to come forward and deal with the situation. Mr President, I would like to Pending such a change, we in the Moderates have chosen to submit a sharp follow-up motion with two changes. It should be made clear directly in the legislation that acts against relatives – that is, murders – and murders carried out in the context of organised crime are so serious that killings carried out on this basis are punishable by life imprisonment. We have submitted such a sharp motion. It is not very common to do so, but it has happened on several previous occasions. This has not only happened in 2009, but there are also several examples in the near future when– I think – all parties have agreed that it was reasonable to do so. We on the Moderate side think that the reasons for making this kind of change this time again are very strong. We are not taking a position on this very subject today, Mr President. We will continue to prepare this issue within the framework of the Committee on Justice. I hope that we can have this at Parliament's table in the near future – so important is that we ensure that we have penalties that reflect the seriousness of the crime, not least for such terrible acts as murder. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-789d595e82d72703-695	Mr President, I would like to Gang war. A new kind of crime. This is what Sweden looks like. This is how Johan Forssell explains the situation that Sweden currently finds itself in. But there is also another picture of reality. The police security survey in the South Region, which came last week, showed that security is increasing and that confidence in the police is doing the same. The proportion of citizens who have been subjected to violence, theft or the like is down to 14% in history – that is a very low figure. I myself had a little difficulty believing it when I first read it; I had to read about the police press release a couple of times. But this is actually the case: Security is increasing, even in the region in which Malmö is located. Mr President, I would like to We are used to hearing Moderates' ever-high breast tones and suggestions about different forms of punishment and things to happen here and now. But I would like to hear about what the Moderates never talk about in this committee – about what you do not mention but which is actually the solution to the situation in which Sweden finds itself, namely the prevention of crime. I long to hear the Moderates talk about crime prevention, which is no more guarding, longer punishment and more reprisals. This is not crime prevention. I would like to hear the Moderates talk about what is the very basis of the situation in which Sweden finds itself today and which is why the number of shootings is increasing. It is about the increased inequality between people, about unemployment and about the lack of a solid education for all. Let's hear it, Johan Forssell!
i-789d595e82d72703-700	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that Linda Westerlund Snecker longs for the Moderates to speak. I'd love to. I think, however, that a lot of people in Sweden long for a change, because they see and feel what is happening in Sweden. You can always show different things with statistics, but I think you have to be more than legitimately isolated from the developments in our country in order not to notice what has happened. Or maybe we have become so used to the shootings and the blasts that we no longer react but wake up in the morning and think Rather than reacting with what I think is the reasonable starting point, namely that it is terrible that it should be in this way and that it should not happen in Sweden. Then it's like this: If you as a politician are to be able to deal with these problems, you have to, I think, manage to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. It's not easy, but I think most people actually can do it. Here and now, strong efforts are needed to ensure that those people and criminal gangs who are tormenting Sweden and tormenting many innocent people are removed from our streets. That in itself, I would say, is tremendous crime prevention. But in the long run, other things are also needed. We have talked about this. We came to negotiations with the government with three sharp proposals. They are registered in the Government Office; just ask them out. Linda Westerlund Snecker can also read our moderate committee movements, which describe these proposals. One thing that I think is very important is to change the work of social services and to ensure that you can take early and clear action. I think it is too late when a person is 15 to 16 years old and has already committed crimes for perhaps five years. I am happy to develop this further in my next line.
i-789d595e82d72703-706	Mr President, I would like to I do not want to go to the Government Office to read Johan Forssell's crime prevention proposal – I want Johan Forssell to talk about the crime prevention proposals to a much greater extent. We are getting caught up in the fact that what the Moderates really want is not to create a picture of what the police say, namely that security increases and that the risk of being subjected to violence decreases and is at a very low level in the South Region. This does not really fit into the picture that the Moderates, along with their new conservative friends on the other side of the block, want to paint. It is interesting that Johan Forssell does not trust the police's statistics, because statistics can of course do a little what you want with. It is the same authority that Johan Forssell is prepared to give very large powers with different search zones. You should be able to enter much more into people's lives. He has confidence in the Swedish police, but he does not trust Sweden's police statistics. That's interesting. I agree with the Moderates that we cannot have young people who come into crime so early, preferably no young people at all, because if we have no young people who are criminals then we have no adults who become criminals. Social services are extremely important there. We must have a strong and secure well-being with capacity, with social secretaries and fielders who get hold of and have contact with these young people at a very early age. We fully agree on that. However, we cannot do that if we talk about young people going to prison earlier and to a much greater extent into certain locked institutions, for example through LVUs in SIS institutions, which unfortunately often have the opposite effect. If you are locked in very early as a youth, the guarantee is basically clear that you are a criminal once you get out of the locked youth homes. I think the solution is a strong welfare. I know that Johan Forssell has a completely different view of it. But stop talking punishment and start talking crime prevention!
i-789d595e82d72703-711	Mr President, I would like to I think Linda Westerlund Snecker should consider whether punishment can also be crime prevention. It can sometimes be wise to listen to what others say and not just have different arguments and ping-pong matches here and there. In fact, it is more difficult to commit new crimes if you are locked up than if you are in the streets, and speaking of the police, it is often a description that they do. Actually, I think Linda Westerlund Snecker should think seriously about it. When it comes to social services, there are major problems not least in Malmö today with young people who will be LVU-placed in the homes. It's a business that doesn't work. In reality, the possibility of interrupting these criminal careers today is very heavily dependent on where in the country you live, because it affects the finances of municipalities very much. These are expensive investments, and in many municipalities you hesitate to do this because you simply cannot afford it. We have said from the Moderates that it should be more of a national responsibility. We are allocating funds in our moderate budget to a national effort to lift out the most criminally active young people. We also believe that the main responsibility for these people should be transferred to the correctional services, not to lock them up – we are not locking up 15-year-olds today either – but because the skills for dealing with these individuals are there rather than in a small municipality that has never worked on these issues before. As I said: When these people are 15 - 16 years old and have been involved in heavy crime for many years, it is too late. Then we can stand in this Chamber and talk about all kinds of crime prevention measures, but it is too late. That's it. Here and now, however, it is not what solves the situation, it is other kinds of things, simply to ensure that the hard core of the rule of law works. That's where we split up. But it is clear that if you do not see the problems, it is very difficult to do something about them.
i-789d595e82d72703-715	Mr President, I would like to There is a lot of positive things in my head when I hear Johan Forssell talking. I am pleased that we have broad agreement on the legislative proposal that is now on the table of this House. I also have great respect for the desire to see further legislative changes in this area. It is part of the opposition role that you take seriously. What makes me a little perplexed is how this is to be done in practice. It is very important that we carefully investigate and analyse legislation that we introduce in Sweden and allow interested parties to have an opinion in order to detect shortcomings in legislation that is presented. I think we have every reason to be proud of the investigative system we have in Sweden. It is under the Constitution that the government has the power to govern the investigation system, and it is on the Government Office to handle such investigations. Then, as the Moderates have now done, you can put a sharp bill in a motion. Then the proposal must be examined in committee. I'm feeling a little perplexed about it. I also know that the Constitutional Committee has expressed its views on this and said that the committees are supposed to be restrictive in working out comprehensive proposals themselves without preparation within the Government Office. I would like to hear Johan Forssell's comments on my concerns here.
i-3r2RoXYfW5u9A2Xp8YLCc2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gustaf Lantz, for the question! I think we agree that legislation should, of course, be examined. I also feel great pride in the investigative system we have. It is a fine Swedish administrative tradition that we should cherish. The more you deal with these issues, however, the realization, which has probably also reached Gustaf Lantz, is that there is no guarantee that the legislation will be good just because it has taken a very long time to produce it. Unfortunately, there are various examples of exactly this, sometimes from the Alliance and sometimes from the Social Democrats. It is not just about taking a long time, it is also about getting it right. And the product we are talking about, the report on life imprisonment for murder, is a recent example of this. We, of course, come from the majority to respect the processing requirement; it is no stranger than that. This should be prepared in the same way as when legislative proposals come from the government. I can certainly point out in this connection that a number of perhaps most important things that this government has done have not been fully prepared. For example, I could mention the identification checks, which had a very ambitious timetable and rather short consultation time, a few days I would like to remember. So there are several previous examples where things have gone quickly. Having said that, I wish we didn't really have to be here. I had hoped that the government would have done the right thing from the start and listened to the views that exist. However, when this is not the case and the government is in a great many areas, I think, not listening to the announcements that exist, you end up here. We now intend to do what we can to tighten the penalties on the points at stake.
i-789d595e82d72703-724	Mr President, I would like to When the Constitutional Committee states that it assumes that the committees will be restrictive in working out more comprehensive proposals themselves without preparation within the Government Office, that means something to me. That is why I am very worried when I read the Moderates' motion on the issues we are discussing today. It states: There is a provision in the Criminal Code that deals with organised crime. Therefore, no further processing or investigation procedures are necessary to define the concept. What worries me is the importance of the issue we are discussing. It is about the law's most severe punishment, the state's greatest intervention in the lives of individuals and the most serious crime. I am genuinely concerned that, in this situation, the law book cuts and pastes, takes a definition from a completely different context and places it in committee, puts forward a sharp legislative proposal and refers to the fact that there is no need to investigate the matter further. My simple question to Johan Forssell is: do you stand by what you have written in the motion that this matter does not need to be prepared in, as I understand now, the committee?
i-789d595e82d72703-727	Mr President, I would like to The basic reason we're here is that the government has chosen not to learn from past mistakes. We are now in danger of having legislation in this area that is applicable but will not have the intended effect. Had the government chosen to learn from what happened in 2014 and listened to other parties, we would not be here today. Actually, it's no stranger than that. We Moderates, and the majority, feel that we cannot wait to bring about a change. We think the situation is so serious. This is unusual but not unique. In the Social Security Committee, during the previous parliamentary term, we had a report in which we tried with full agreement to put an end to the deportation of skills. It also happened from scratch, because there was no product from the government. I never heard the Social Democrats protest at the time, but on the contrary, the Social Democrats joined and thought it was a good thing. So you get to choose which foot you stand on. Surely it cannot be that the Social Democrats adapt their position to what other parties think and think rather than what the reality looks like, because it would not have been quite serious. The answer to Gustaf Lantz's question is that we are, of course, behind what the motion says. We still do not have the product itself, but it is currently being processed by the committee secretariat and will be referred and prepared in the usual way. We will of course listen to both the consultation bodies and the Law Council. There is no guarantee that we will succeed. But we will do what we can, and that is perhaps the big difference: We are trying to bring about a change.
i-789d595e82d72703-732	Mr President, I would like to What a holiday of sorrow, what a year of sorrow, what a time of sorrow when young people fall victim to brutal violence and then too many young people instead of dreaming of a bright future and a good life with love and fellowship fall into crime – a crime that leads to a bottomless darkness that unjustly, ruthlessly and senselessly deprives others of life and health, puts terror in whole societies and steals the freedom and security of others. The ultimate point of this violence is to a large extent what we are debating today: murder and the punishment for murder. To deprive another person of his life will normally be punishable by the most severe punishment of the law: life imprisonment. If there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament, and that is a good thing. This unity has existed for a while, as previous speakers have mentioned. We tried to do this earlier with a law that came into force in 2014. However, legislation is sometimes a blunt instrument, and after a while we were forced to conclude that the amendment of the law did not have the intended effect. This should be an educational example of how important the quality of legislation is. Making laws is not like running society with rope and talja, but it is giving instructions to authorities and courts on how to do things in different situations. The debate on legal policy is easily simplified and, in a justified outrage at the rightful demands for action and improvement made by disgusting crimes, travel. But as most people understand after a moment of reflection, simple solutions are rarely the answer to complex problems. In many parts of the world and close to us in Europe, the clouds are becoming darker and darker over quite basic democratic values. The principles of the rule of law are flouted when the role and independence of the courts are called into question and circumscribed. For those who have argued for the simple solution that then turns out not to work, the temptation is perhaps great to try to control the courts so that they act as intended. But the dimly said is often the obscure thought, and the obscure thought will never be good law. The independence of courts is an essential part of the separation of powers, and division of powers is an essential part of democracy. Nowhere in the world has a society become more secure by lack of power sharing and democratic control. The only thing that happens is possibly that insecurity changes senders. It does not matter, Mr President, whether this shortcoming was caused by socialist or right-wing nationalist motives. The responsibility rests with us to make laws that are of such high quality that they work and that they take into account other laws in general and constitutions in particular. It is also a matter of showing political leadership even at difficult times to our country and not rushing off and making promises to its citizens that we are not sure of being able to deliver. Mr President, I would like to It is common, at least in liberal circles, for us to talk about this from the point of view of the rule of law, but that is not only why this is important. As we have so clearly seen through legislation in exactly the area we are debating today, quality is also hugely important in order for the laws to actually have the intended effect and solve the problems we want to solve with the law. I can largely share the frustration that many feel about the inertia of the systems, especially when we take part in media reporting on ruthless gun violence and other things. At the same time, everyone who has read the report by the Committee on Justice knows that effective legislation takes on extraordinary skill and that there are many traps to go into. If power sharing and the quality of legislation are the basis of democracy, polemics and debate are its breath of life. Breaking opinions against each other and arguing for new ideas and challenging old ones is essential for parliamentarism to deliver solutions and be relevant in a new age. There are also times when we have to roll up our sleeves and join forces to move forward. Sometimes we have to set aside the party preacher and take responsibility to the best of our ability to do something important for our country. Sometimes this also has to happen, although we do not think our opponents deserve our help and even though it may not benefit us in public opinion. But we must do it for the good of Sweden and for our common future in our country. I would like to express my special thanks to the Moderates who, through their party leader Ulf Kristersson's late summer speech, opened up for talks across the block. I would also like to express my thanks to the government, which then invited such talks. Although in these talks we only got a bit on the way, we still had the opportunity to lift, twist and reverse some very important measures that can now become a reality. Thank you also to the other participating parties for the commitment that was shown in this connection. With regard to the report on the penalties for murder, there are a couple of important additions. Firstly, in committee, we have a majority in favour of removing the limitation period for murder in all cases where the offender is an adult. There are also several interesting ideas. The Moderates suggested that murder as a result of violence in close relationships should also normally give life and that murder taking place within the framework of organised crime should also give it. In the first case, it is mentioned in the preparatory work, and it seems to be the view of the government parties that it is nevertheless the law's intention to do so. There may be various reasons why there is no explicit mention in the draft amendment to the Criminal Code, but it is still interesting to look further at. In the case of a punitive basis for organised crime, this is something that can be said to be found in existing law. That is also something we agreed on among the 34 points that the short gang talks nevertheless reached, and this is something that will be implemented with the entry into force of spring 2021. Mr President, I would like to I had hoped that we could also process these issues according to the practice we make law with in Sweden. Now another solution is being tested, and we will see what it lands in. However, this will be examined in another report. That being the case, I would simply like to support the committee's proposal.
i-789d595e82d72703-751	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the report of the Committee on Justice, Justice and Home Affairs, the Penalty for Murder. The debate has been quite broad, which is natural in view of the situation in the country with growing insecurity, shootings and up to 200 blasts. I find it interesting to hear representatives twisting and turning the way things look. You can also listen to the chief police officer, who last week described that we in Sweden have a unique situation internationally. We have also heard criminologists say that no other comparable country in Europe is experiencing what Sweden and indeed people in Sweden are experiencing in streets and squares right now. Last week the Expressen wrote, I believe, that families on different streets in Malmö move the children's beds from walls and windows for fear of explosions in connection with the residential building. It is clear that we have growing insecurity, and it is clear that we must take this very seriously. Nothing can be more important to us in this house than to overcome and do everything we can to stop development. There, the Christian Democrats believe that tightening up penalties is one way of preventing crime. We can come back in many other debates where the Christian Democrats have a policy of social intervention, support for families and other measures to strengthen civil society to address the causes in the long term. More police officers and more stringent penalties are an extremely important part of halting the runaway development. It is therefore positive that there is such a broad consensus in this House to tighten the penalties also for murder and for the life sentence to be the norm for murder. I note a dissenting opinion, and it is from the Left Party, which, admittedly, says that the punishment should be proportionate to the crime committed. Then one can really think about what punishment is actually proportionate to such an irreversible crime as murder. The representatives of several parties have highlighted how it hits not only the individual, but a whole world and an entire environment, as well as parents and children, who lose a loved one who is snatched from the earth. It is clear that the Christian Democrats believe that the proportionately correct punishment is life sentence and that this should be the norm in law and law enforcement. It is therefore positive with the props contained in the bill, which we support. They've been listed before. However, we think that the government misses two props that are mentioned in the preparatory work but which are not included. It concerns offences against relatives and whether the offence has been part of a crime committed in an organised form. I note Rasmus Ling's concern that we have learned nothing from what it was like last time, when the then Alliance wanted to tighten the penalties and make life sentences the norm. But it's exactly the opposite – that's what we've been doing. We have learned from history and now want to help the government, which does not seem to have learned from history, by bringing the two important props into law. As the report says, this has been broken out of the dossier and will prepare it in the usual way and will come back with a report for decision in this House later on. What there is a difference of opinion about in some parties in the committee's proceedings concerns the limitation periods. The Christian Democrats have exercised to remove the limitation period for murder if the offender is between 18 and 21 years old. As everyone knows, the limitation period is removed for murder in general, but it is still in place for 18 to 20-year-olds, which we find unfortunate and totally unreasonable. We do not think that the limitation period should remain when the offender is between 18 and 21 years old. I have to say that I am a little puzzled, Mr President, when I hear Mr Lantz say that this is not necessary because the issue is being prepared in the Government Office and one looks at the Youth Reduction Investigation proposal in the Sloped Penalty Discount report for young people. In the 34-point programme, it is announced that the investigation should not be carried out, but that it should have a completely new structure to deal with repeated serious crime, which includes a very limited proportion of the young offenders who are eligible. My question is whether it is a double command at the Government Office and whether you sit in a section and work with an investigation, which is said to be prepared here, to produce proposals to remove the youth discount. This would be very welcome, but then it runs counter to the 34-point programme that the government has already announced in another part of the Government Office. A little clarity would be desirable from the government, but the insecurity and dual command may still explain some of the prudence that exists and that characterises the government's work in the field of justice policy. As far as the Christian Democrats are concerned, it goes without saying: the limitation period should be removed. We call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-789d595e82d72703-762	Mr President, I would like to I was going to go on the same track that I was on earlier in my line shift with Johan Forssell. I would like answers to questions relating to the handling of the sharp legislative proposal that has been received in the Committee on Justice by the motion brought by the Moderates and others. I am thinking in the same way as before about the letter in the motion, which states that there is already a provision on organised crime – a definition in the Criminal Code – and that there is therefore no need for further preparatory or investigative measures. My simple question to Andreas Carlson is therefore whether he shares that view and will oppose such an investigation.
i-789d595e82d72703-765	Mr President, I would like to It is a fairly simple answer: we will not oppose the preparation of the matter in the usual way, have rounds of referrals, send it to the Law Council and try it just like any other legislation, but we believe that the definition exists. This very definition does not seem to us to need further investigation, but of course the issue should be prepared, examined and referred to. We have consultative bodies that have spoken out on the bill as a whole and which could have a say on the part that is about taking pre-work into the props. It is no more strange than that we should of course follow the principles that exist as well as the preparation requirement. However, I am grateful to Mr Lantz for taking the floor. Then he may be able to answer the question of whether to prepare the inquiry into the abolition of youth discounts at the Ministry of Justice and how actively to prepare it, given that you have a 34-point programme that goes in a completely different direction. What is the government really going to do? I know that Mr Lantz is not in the government itself, but he represents a government party and can provide clarity in this debate. That would be very welcome.
i-789d595e82d72703-768	Mr President, I would like to My line was about how we prepare matters in committees. We should remember that this is a strange bird when it comes to how we usually make teams in Sweden. It is no coincidence that the government is in charge of the investigation and that that is where the huge resources are available to come up with new legislation. I am a trained lawyer and know what good wills can be played away in a legislative work where you have had a good intention but where there can be difficulties when the law is then to be interpreted. For example, if there is a willingness to state something precisely, in unfortunate cases a court may interpret this as meaning that what has not been pointed out is less important. There are a number of such considerations. What is important to remember in this matter is that we agree on the purpose. It's in the pre-work. It is a procedure that is part of Swedish legal tradition that the preparatory work has a strong position. Therefore, I think it's particularly important when we talk about the serious nature of the crime – this is not an easy matter to go through – that we get a preparation that is adequate. I am very concerned now that this may not be the only case. It's about the life-long crime, which the committee secretariat will handle. This is not something you are used to, and you already have a great workload. It would be much safer if the opposition wanted to go forward with an announcement to the government and ask it to come back with the legislation that is requested, so that the government can take responsibility for us investigating this in a way that is in accordance with the good investigation tradition we have in Sweden.
i-789d595e82d72703-772	Mr President, I would like to I have great respect for Gustaf Lantz's concerns. It is, of course, characterised by his representing a government party. I have great respect for the fact that it is more convenient for the government to get announcements, which you can obviously do whatever you want with. That is the problem in this area, that a majority in the Parliament repeatedly affirms its desire to move forward more quickly with proposals that could have an effect but which in many cases the government has drawn a long line. There we, the opposition and the Christian Democrats, will not sit nice and wait for the government to come back with a policy that can make a real difference to reverse developments, where I think everyone shares the view that much is going in the wrong direction with growing insecurity, shootings and explosions. It's up to the government. We will not rest on the male when it comes to making sharp proposals even in the future. But of course they should be prepared. Of course they should live up to the processing requirements that exist. I think Mr Lantz is a bit condescending when he says the committee secretariat. They're highly educated lawyers. We have expertise in the Riksdag, and we can develop documentation that forms the basis for legislation. It's not a completely alien bird. It's been done before. It is right to be restrictive about this in the case of large-scale legislative cases. But these are clarifications and are about mistakes that the government has made. We want to bring things in from the preliminary work to the props so that the mistakes that have been made in the past will not be repeated. Here I don't think Gustaf Lantz needs to be worried. Then, of course, if you take a line, you have to be prepared to answer a question from the person you take a line on. There I note that Gustaf Lantz has no answer to the problem of one corner of the Ministry of Justice preparing legislation in one direction and in the other corner preparing it in a completely different direction. Then there's a problem with time running away.
i-789d595e82d72703-777	Mr President, I would like to Of course, murder is one of the most serious crimes. For a long time there were a few hundred unsolved murders in Sweden. Today, we're almost up to 650 unsolved murders. The consequences are enormous, and the suffering is indescribable to the victims and their relatives. The subject of this report is not so complicated – the Liberals naturally ask for approval of the proposal in the report – and the punishment for murder should be life as a starting point. Then there may be some extenuating circumstance that could change this. One might say that with this proposal we are trying to arrive at it for the second time. We also add a mission that we want to ensure that it really does. The question then arises as to whether this is appropriate, as I heard earlier in the debate. This raises questions about how we work in Parliament. Then it is very good that the President is sitting in the Bureau today. We had an EU debate this morning. It was not so much about the parliament and Sweden having to modernise their way of investigating and legislating – but it was affected in some speech – given that we must be in tune with what is happening in Europe to reform, for example, some of the Swedish comitology. When we have the situation we have in Parliament now, with a government based on an agreement on a budget and a January agreement with 73 points, it is clear that there will be other majorities in other areas in, for example, the Committee on Justice. The Riksdag must then be prepared to assume its legislative responsibility. It's quite possible. It is only a matter of complying with the parliamentary regulations. It is then that we may need to strengthen Parliament's investigative service in the long term and ensure that we have ambulatory resources in the committees in order to be able to take care of it. That is the reality that exists. That is how the voters have voted, and the will of the voters we should follow. This debate then focused much on prevention. It was a bit all over the place, so to speak. That goes without saying. There's nothing more important. For it is all too often young murderers that we are talking about who end up in situations that are terrible and commit terrible deeds. Of course we should work preventively. How hard can it be? The broad social policy brush strokes apply here as well as everywhere. It is important to get these kids to have something else to do than live in the mental ice age that they do for various reasons and have a meaningful leisure time and perhaps also a future. We are happy to talk about this on the part of the Liberals. It is about everything from more youth monitoring to earlier and clearer action. I was very happy when I heard representatives from the social services yesterday, or if it was the school, in Malmö who emphasised the importance of it having to be a consequence of young people's actions. And this must be done early. I usually talk about this inter-obligation that is on paper in the ancient Swedish Social Services Act. But if 13- and 14-year-olds – especially those under 15 years of age – commit crimes, it must be consistent. It is the greatest declaration of love that we can give to these young people, because they are on a terribly dangerous path. It is also about on-call courts for young people, the case for evidence early for all crimes to be investigated and plenty of other measures for us to be able to curb and prevent young people's crime. Otherwise, the killing will only continue. However, this is not in opposition to the arrest, arrest and arrest of persons who may then be convicted of murder. Then it should be life. It should be quite straightforward, although not everyone here shares this view. The same applies to threats and violence against women, not least in the name of so-called honour repression. It is terrible and must meet in ways other than life sentences for murder. There are a lot of measures that we are now taking, not least within the framework of the January agreement, to tighten up our view of oppression, not to say hatred, against women's freedom. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I shall make a point of limitation. It is important that we highlight it from the majority in committee. More and more crimes can be solved with modern technology. It is very welcome to have possibilities for extended DNA testing with so-called family search that can be done to clear up murders. As I said, it's up to 650 unsolved murders. Many people cannot come to peace with their grief until these crimes are resolved. Then it is terribly indecent that anyone who is now 19 to 20 years old and executes someone on the street gets away and that these murders are time-barred. Liberals believe that it is a decency in the rule of law that these murders should not be time-barred and that the family members of these victims can find peace. That is why this is important. I support the proposal in the report.
i-789d595e82d72703-787	Mr President, I would like to We live in a social development that is a bit difficult to summarize. This weekend another murder was committed in Malmö, and one far too young person died. The gang crime claimed another victim. At the same time, security in society and confidence in the police are increasing. According to the police security check, fewer and fewer citizens in Region South are being subjected to crime. The proportion of citizens exposed to violence, theft or vandalism continues to decrease and is down to 14 per cent in history. The level of exposure to crime continues to decrease, and has declined sharply for some ten years. This applies to both violent crimes and mass crimes. But despite the blasts and shootings, society is becoming safer and safer. It is not thanks to political initiatives from this House. It is thanks to the local work of the police, thanks to the municipalities and to civil society. They should have a big thank-you for that. Despite this, proposals are presented following proposals for tougher action, more monitoring and more private guardians. The government is competing with the Moderates to keep up with the Moderate populist proposals where there seems to be no limit to how much a society can be monitored. It shall be monitored, and search zones shall be established. The next step is that every citizen should face-scan before we get to go across the square to buy a cup of coffee, because if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to worry about. It is exciting, because this sounds just like the Communist dictatorship of China's way of monitoring its citizens. I guess that's where the Moderates got their inspiration. What is proposed in the report we are debating today is that the Coast Guard, the police, Säpo and Customs should be allowed to conduct camera surveillance without the permission of the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The Swedish Data Protection Authority will continue to conduct supervision, but it is the crime prevention authorities themselves that may decide whether the interest in guarding outweighs the individual's interest in not being watched. Mr President, I would like to The left side believes that in camera surveillance there should be a permit. The government's justification that the administration is too complicated for the authorities is not good enough. Personal integrity weighs extremely much more than the authorities finding paper and signatures difficult. Furthermore, given that security is increasing and the risk of being exposed to crime is reduced, I find it difficult to see what camera surveillance will lead to. Camera monitoring does not mean that there is a person watching what is being filmed, as many seem to believe. Camera surveillance can at best lead to better evidence when the crime has already been committed, but nothing indicates that it significantly reduces crime. Camera surveillance does not remove crime, but, on the other hand, it moves crime from the square to the next street. I will admit, however, that there is some criminality that is reduced by camera surveillance, and it is property crime and drug crime. These decrease by 13%. On the other hand, increased police presence, social interventions and improved lighting reduce crime by 34%. Of course, it is possible to combine all these measures, but it has been shown time and again that camera surveillance rather lulls the population into false security and that other crime prevention measures disappear. I can understand, however, that you want a camera in your residential area. I understand the local cry for help and the fact that violence must be seen as a national crisis. However, that crisis is not solved by more cameras, but quite different measures are needed to eliminate the violence. Therefore, the Left Party proposes that the bill be rejected, that a review of the Camera Protection Act be carried out from a privacy perspective and that the Swedish Data Protection Authority be given the task of reviewing the authorisation process to make it easier. I request the approval of reservation 1 and the rejection of the bill.
i-789d595e82d72703-796	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the motions that have been made, that is what has been done. Today is a rather dramatic day in the Swedish Parliament. One can say that a new low-water mark has been reached when there is a motion of censure against one of the most productive ministers of justice with which our country has been endowed. We have tabled over 200 proposals and we have passed more than 50 laws in this House. The Udden has been directed at the challenges of organised crime for our country, including shootings and explosions as well as others. These are historic efforts, but they have also been combined with the fact that we are rolling out equally historically large investments in resources in all parts of the justice chain. It is therefore a question of legislation and resources. Sometimes we have produced legislation entirely from scratch, for example in the area of terrorist law. There, a pen stroke had not been drawn in Rosenbad to meet the challenges facing Sweden when it comes to travellers to IS and other terrorist organisations – not a pen stroke. Other proposals have come after the government has been announced by the opposition, which is pushing the government ahead of it. There the opposition has taken its role, given the parliamentary conditions in this House, seriously. We should be grateful for that in a way. The government and we as government representatives are trying to take these announcements seriously and graze them one by one. In this camera surveillance case, there are some announcements at the bottom. Having said that, it is particularly sad that politicians in Sweden today, 2019, cannot avoid exploiting tragic events in the way they do. It is a political game that is unworthy, and we see Friday's vote of censure as just one step on a sloping scale in terms of dealing with the area of justice policy. Today's debate is about camera surveillance, and the title actually says most things: It should be a simpler procedure. As Linda Westerlund Snecker described, this means that the Swedish Coast Guard, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Customs Authority may conduct camera surveillance without the permission of the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The authorities shall exercise a balance of interests in which personal integrity shall be weighed against the purposes of law enforcement or crime prevention. The Swedish Data Protection Authority will of course also conduct supervision, and if someone violates the valuation that is to be made before the cameras are set up, there can be heavy fines – up to 5 million. There are, in fact, two reasons for this proposal, one of which is a question of effectiveness. We want to increase speed and flexibility, because it is a crucial factor in law enforcement. It is also the case that very many of our authorities, not least the police, are burdened with bureaucratic and administrative regulations that suck the must out of the core mission itself. Everyone who works in the school, in the police or in administrations generally knows that we need to simplify and make it more flexible. That is one of the important reasons for this. The second motive is that we also want increased camera monitoring. It is our view that monitoring of vulnerable places is long awaited by commuters, citizens and residents, as well as by staff working in these areas and by traders who have their livelihoods from businesses such as shops and the like. It is also longed for by the police and the guards. However, it is not long awaited by those who today stand on the open drug scenes and, for example, sell drugs. Research shows that drug sales do not stop but that it is moved, and there may be a great value in its being moved. The Järva police report that 70% of drug sales are expected to remain even if they move a distance away, but it is totally unacceptable that there should be open drug trafficking in connection with the entrances of subway stations. People shouldn't have to get past drug dealers when they're on their way to work or school. So we must take a firm stand against this, and so will we. There is therefore a very important crime prevention profile in this proposal, ironically enough. This is not a repressive proposal. While the prosecution of a crime is a huge gain for the legal chain, it is, of course, an even greater gain if a crime is not committed in the first place. These are the two main motives. Is this bill open? No, it won't. It is not an unregulated activity, but has a number of assessments to make, which should be documented in the usual way. It is, of course, a comprehensive regulatory framework that deals with situations where there are ambiguities and where consultation with the licensing authority should be held well in advance of the start of the surveillance. It is also about regulations regarding the purpose, updating and deletion of materials and so on. This is therefore a regulated area, although we are now making it considerably easier. Finally, there is a small argument about the concepts of security camera versus surveillance camera. This is about monitoring public places that we feel the police need to monitor when there may be drug sales or other criminal activities. The fact that one has changed the focus from talking about surveillance cameras and the discussion in the 90s to talking about security is perhaps an indicator of society's discussion – although, as I said, in many parts we have a much safer society than we had a generation ago. We need to be reminded of that. I've done it many times here from the speaker's seat. The risk of dying of accident or crime in our country is lower than a generation ago. We live longer and are healthier. We are happier than we are in many other lands of the earth. Sweden is the country on the globe where it is best to be a child according to all available statistics. It's the country where it's best to be old, and it's the country where it's best to be a woman. Our country is one of the best social creatures on this earth. The dystopian picture of reality that is truly depicted in our country in 2019 certainly has no bearing on reality in all its parts. Having said that, we intend to take the necessary steps to repel the destructive forces that are firing at each other, blowing each other up and making our society insecure. We're not gonna fold an inch. We will deliver, and we will do so until the goal is reached.
i-789d595e82d72703-810	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are going to debate the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, camera surveillance in law enforcement – a simpler procedure. I support the proposal in the report. Crime has reached new terrible heights in Sweden. The criminal gangs hold parts of Sweden in an iron grip. Shootings and blastings take place virtually every day. There is hardly any point in producing current figures, because they increase from day to day. Violence has become much rougher, and gangs do not shy away from shooting a mother in the head as she holds her infant in her arms. Can you imagine that? Imagine your wife, sister or anyone holding a two-month baby in their arms and someone comes and shoots her in the head so she dies and the baby falls into the ground. I think it's important not to just talk about shootings that cold. I think you should understand what that means. What kind of person can do such a thing? I think it's so terrible and cold-blooded that I almost don't want to believe it happened. Nowadays, shootings and explosions are taking place in broad daylight in the midst of innocent people who are in mortal danger. There are many examples of the crude violence. For example, robberies have increased very much. By mid-October, 112 children had been robbed this year only in Gothenburg. These are absolutely appalling figures, because behind each figure is a child whose security has been destroyed for a long time to come. For example, a 12-year-old boy had to be taken to hospital when, at about 14 o'clock, a regular Monday was on his way to school and a robber came and put a knife to his throat. I can't believe you're sending your own child to school in broad daylight and thinking it's safe, and then someone comes and puts a knife to the neck of the child who's only 12 years old. The boy was stabbed, admittedly in the hand, because he probably pushed the knife away, and had to go to the hospital. It's so awful. You can't swear in the speaker's chair, but this is so terrible and I get pissed off, angry and actually afraid of the development in Sweden. Then one can say that crime has fallen, but that there have been 112 robberies to children this year until October only in Gothenburg is appalling. Madam President, I would like Last Saturday was a black day in Malmö. A lot of people have talked about this. First, a car was blown up. Then a 15-year-old was shot dead. Another 15-year-old was shot and injured life-threatening. A 25-year-old woman was injured life-threatening when a man came and assaulted her with a plank. He beat her to pieces. I don't know how she is now. I haven't read in the paper how things have turned out. A few days later, it was time again to attempt to kill a teenager and blow up a garage. I noticed Petter Löberg calling this tragic event, and it's not just him who uses that expression, but many who do. I usually react to that expression because, in my view, a tragic event is a tsunami or something else that just happens and is not anyone's fault. But these are not tragic events. It's cold-blooded murder. I think there's a difference. You're supposed to tell the truth. Shootings, blasts and serious violent crimes have become everyday crimes in Sweden. When I read the news in the morning, I am surprised when there has been no shooting or blasting. The situation is very serious in Sweden. Innocent people are murdered and badly injured. We Moderates are determined to crack the criminal gangs and other serious crime. Law - abiding people should be able to walk in streets and squares without being subjected to serious crimes. In our moderate budget for 2020, we propose a very large investment in the judiciary, which means 2 1⁄2 billion more than the government is investing. Madam President, I would like This report concerns camera surveillance. It will be easier for the police, the security service, the Coast Guard and the Swedish Customs Agency to conduct surveillance without permission from the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Neither should they have to report this. This concerns places where the public has access: streets, squares and parks. This is very important in order to combat crime quickly and effectively. Camera surveillance can prevent, prevent and detect crimes. Camera surveillance is also very helpful in investigating and prosecuting crimes and can also be an important tool for the police to maintain public order and security. The authorities themselves must do a balancing of interests, which means that it should be more important to have camera surveillance than the individual's right not to be watched. The Swedish Data Protection Authority shall exercise supervision and be able to levy a penalty fee on an authority that is not performing its duties. It's good that this law comes. It will enter into force in January 2020, and it is not a day too soon. On the contrary, it has taken a great many years. We Moderates have been working for several years to get the police to decide this for themselves. Parliament has made four announcements about this. The first was already in 2017, that is, almost three years ago. You can't accuse the government of being very fast. And one might wonder how many crimes could have been avoided if the government had not been so slow. Camera surveillance is very important when investigating crimes and was, for example, crucial in the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan. Then you can look at Wanted to see how important the camera surveillance is. There are many criminals who get caught when their pictures are displayed. It is important that the police have the resources to investigate crime. We are investing SEK 1 865 000 000 more than the government is doing at the Police Authority next year in order for the police to be able to do this. We want to see much more camera coverage in the country. When gang crime spreads and witnesses are intimidated into silence, camera surveillance is an effective complement to police presence. We Moderates believe that all exposed areas should be equipped with camera surveillance. We provide resources to the police that will be enough to set up four times as many cameras as there are today. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that I am very critical of the current government made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. It has completely failed to combat serious crime. You just open the paper every day and you understand this. As I said, shootings and explosions have become everyday crimes in Sweden. The government has put forward some proposals to combat this, but that is far from enough.
i-789d595e82d72703-830	Madam President, I would like Ellen Juntti describes how she experiences the situation in Sweden today. Ellen Juntti expresses her fear of developments in Sweden. I agree that very much is incredibly serious right now, including the event this weekend. I don't look as much at Desired as Ellen Juntti does. But I usually check the police statistics. Even though there are incredibly serious incidents, even though human lives are lost because of cruel crime, security is increasing, according to the police's security investigation. The Moderates don't really want to pretend that. It is not part of the Moderates' political vision that Sweden will become a more unsafe place for the Moderates to be able to put their political proposals in. The proposal for more monitoring, which we are discussing today, is one of those. I want us to focus a little on what we are actually going to debate here today. I want an answer from Ellen Juntti when the Moderates think there is no need for surveillance when cameras should not be set up. The Moderates' proposal is that all Sweden's vulnerable areas should have cameras. It's a huge amount of cameras. There are 60 vulnerable areas in Sweden. So they're to be sprinkled with cameras. I would also like to hear the Moderates' definition of personal integrity. I would like answers to those two questions.
i-789d595e82d72703-835	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I think Linda Westerlund Snecker should look a little more often at Wanted. Many different crimes are solved because you have had camera surveillance. One example is two people who raped a girl in Skåne somewhere a while ago – I think it was in Malmö. The cameras had photographed them. They recognized themselves when they looked at Wantedly – many criminals look at Wanted – and reported themselves. I think, as someone said earlier, camera surveillance is crime prevention. Maybe they hadn't stopped committing a lot of crimes. Maybe they would have continued if they hadn't been caught. So camera surveillance helps to investigate and clear up crimes. But it is also crime prevention. Linda Westerlund Snecker says that we moderates would be sad if crime were to decrease. No, I'd be really happy. If I could choose, not a single crime would be committed throughout Sweden. Of course, it would be the best of worlds. But now that crime is taking place, there must also be consequences. As far as privacy is concerned, I can say that I have committed no crime. I've been a cop for 30 years, too. I think you can also protect my integrity, so that I can walk on a street without being subjected to crime. I have no problem with some cameras filming when I go there. But if someone were to put a knife to my throat, I would be incredibly grateful if there were pictures so that you can investigate the crime and put the person who commits the serious crime in jail. Then the camera will protect my integrity.
i-789d595e82d72703-839	Madam President, I would like I understand that Wanted One likes camera surveillance. It gets so much better TV. If we go outside the entertainment world, who likes to show different types of crime, and instead go on what the research says about camera surveillance, we see that there is no significant impact on the crime of camera setting up. That's what reality looks like, outside of Wanted and TV tabloid. Madam President, I would like I am deeply concerned by Ellen Junttis definition of privacy. It is precisely the argument that, as I have nothing to hide, I have no problem with being monitored, which leads to the creation of a surveillance society. Such argumentation has led to countries with very dubious political governance, such as China, having hugely widespread monitoring of their population. We're not just talking about camera surveillance. There's a facial scan. That's where you have to control every person in the whole community. That's not my definition of living your life in freedom. It's government surveillance where the state takes control of every single person's life. And it starts with saying that I have no problem being monitored, because I have done nothing. Is that where the Moderates want to go? Are the Moderates inspired by countries such as China, which are at the forefront of monitoring their civilian population? Is that the way the Moderates want to go, because Ellen Juntti has looked at the Wanted and seen that surveillance can get criminals to call in and report themselves? Then I'll be deeply concerned about Moderate politics.
i-789d595e82d72703-843	Madam President, I would like I think Linda Westerlund Snecker is a little closer to China and its dictatorship than the Moderates do. Linda Westerlund Snecker does not have to worry. I think the risk is a little greater that Linda's party is moving towards a surveillance society than we are. I have no problem being watched when I walk the streets and squares of the city. It gives me security. If something happens, you can investigate, and the police can put a serious criminal in prison. I trust that the police and other authorities can judge for themselves where cameras are needed. Linda Westerlund Snecker asked where it shouldn't be cameras. There shouldn't be any cameras where you don't think it's necessary. In my small village in Norrbotten, Niskanpää, live 50 people. I don't think it's necessary there. It's different. You'll see where there's a lot of crime going on. There's a need for cameras. I don't have a problem with that. We think differently. I think it's a good bill. We've made four announcements to the government since before. It's time for it to come true now.
i-789d595e82d72703-847	Madam President, I would like We need a more factual discussion about crime and punishment in our society and in the Riksdag in particular. We as legislators have a responsibility to at least try to base our assumptions and reality images on the statistics that exist. Linda's been talking about Wanted. You might think it's a nice program. One can also take anecdote stories of terrible crimes that have occurred in our elongated country or elsewhere and draw conclusions from it. I believe, however, that it is dangerous if we create a picture of the continuing increase in violence in public places. We know that the deadly violence has changed the mode. It has gone from the fact that the most dangerous murder weapon was a bread knife or a bottle in the head of someone in drug circles to today's shooting. This poses other challenges, which need to be addressed by other means. Each individual case is a tragedy.
i-789d595e82d72703-850	Madam President, I would like The question is whether the number of crimes increases or decreases. Some crimes are increasing and others are decreasing. What crimes are decreasing? Is it vandalism? Are those car thefts? This is also included in the statistics. It is good if the number of crimes is reduced. No one likes the car being stolen or someone destroying something you own. But what is increasing is gross violence. It's about shootings. And what do shootings mean? It's not just that you blow off a shot. It's murder. People are murdered and injured for life. It's also about blasts. For example, look at the young girl. Was it in Lund? - who was on his way home when someone had set an explosive device next to a house. She just flew out into the street. There have been pictures of it. She's seriously injured. The serious crimes are on the increase. It's the dangerous thing in society. It's great if vandalism and car theft decrease. But that's not what worries me. I want everything to be reduced. I want there to be zero crimes in Sweden. That's why I've become a cop. I want to fight crime. But the gross violence, as well as the robbery of children, is on the increase. Just take what I raised in my speech. In Gothenburg, someone put a knife to the throat of a twelve - year - old who was on his way to school. This is serious, and it cannot be minimized and said that crime is decreasing. That is why I think the situation is serious.
i-789d595e82d72703-854	Madam President, I would like Of course, we do not minimize such acts or the people who have been victims of crime. We shall prosecute, combat and, above all, prevent this, as we talk about many times in this House. However, we must also be clear about what reality actually looks like. Statistically, for example, the serious crimes of violence and violent crime in Stockholm city have declined by 40 per cent in the last ten years. They have done so, for example, because the municipality and the police work with the donations and make sure that there is not so much alcohol and that it is not served to people who are too drunk at the restaurant. It's crime prevention when it's at its most beautiful. There has been a 40% reduction. As far as murder per capita is concerned, we know that it has fallen by almost 25% since the 1990s, when it was pointed out, despite the increases that have occurred in the last two years. There are around 100 murders a year in our elongated country despite the fact that we Swedes are considerably more today. If you look at Brå's official statistics on assault cases, you don't see the dystopian reality picture that the Moderates with very wide brushes are trying to paint in terms of both reported and committed and perceived assault cases. It is simply not statistically correct. You're supposed to care about that? Should you tell another reality even if you know it's not true? It's up to your own conscience as a politician. I am just as upset as Ellen when it comes to the individual people who are victims of crime. And as I said, the whole of our work in committee is that this should not happen. It is not a daily crime for us when a young person's life is extinguished prematurely in a shooting. It's an accident.
i-789d595e82d72703-860	Madam President, I would like Petter Löberg told me to look at what reality looks like. But I read out examples of it. A mother with a two-month-old baby was shot in the head. Last weekend, a 15-year-old was murdered. Another 15-year-old has life-threatening injuries. A 25-year-old girl was completely unprovoked life-threatening injured when a man smashed her to pieces with a plank. This is the reality. If what Petter Löberg says is true about the 40% reduction in crime, I'm just really happy about it. There can be no one in any of the parties here who is not happy that crime is decreasing in some parts. But serious crime has increased. The robberies have increased. Sexual crimes have increased dramatically. The shootings have increased, that is, instead of murder and attempted murder. And the explosions have increased. This cannot be ignored. This government has failed in this.
i-789d595e82d72703-862	Madam President, I would like It can be seen that it was a long time ago that the Committee on Justice had a debate. We sometimes move a little beyond the substance of the report itself. In this case, we are discussing camera surveillance and the need to make it easier for law enforcement authorities to use cameras. There is also a broad consensus between Social Democrats and Moderates, although they have dusters about everything else in the lines than about what concerns this very thing. However, in this case we agree that it is good to make it easier for law enforcement authorities to use camera surveillance. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have been calling for ever since we entered the Swedish Parliament in 2010. However, we have been rejected year after year on the substance of our committee motions on the grounds that the existing legislation has been well balanced. Just on the day before the terrorist attack on 7 April 2017, we made the latest substantive decisions to make it easier for police and law enforcement authorities to use camera surveillance. The rest of you called for a rejection on exactly the same grounds. Then came the terrorist attack with pictures that became crucial for the police's work in identifying the person in question. The government parties invited parts of the opposition to a discussion – normally not the Swedish Democrats – when they understood the seriousness of the demand that the Swedish Democrats have had since 2010. Camera surveillance and the police's ability to use it can be very important in many situations, not least when it comes to terrorist attacks. Camera surveillance is more effective than simply identifying perpetrators quickly and signaling an APB. It can also be used to prevent crime from occurring. You can use camera surveillance to clear up other types of crime. You can also use it to move crime. This can, for example, apply to drug sales that are more or less open in many vulnerable areas, in central areas where the drug trade scares ordinary people from staying there, picking up their medicines in nearby pharmacies, shopping or even staying out. Then camera surveillance can be a way to move such behavior and criminal individuals away from these environments so ordinary people can live their lives as they deserve. Therefore, it does not always have to be justified on the basis that each individual camera must lead to at least 100% solved crimes that occur in the area. Camera surveillance can be used in other ways, for tactical reasons or for other reasons, by the police to secure different environments. Therefore, it has been very important for the Swedish Democrats to highlight that, compared to the effectiveness of the law enforcement authority and the integrity of the individual, it has placed far too much emphasis on the privacy of the individual. And as the study shows, only the integrity of criminals has been the focus. They have been historically protected in this Assembly when one has been so averse to the ability and ability of the Political Authority to use camera surveillance. Now we have achieved some success. Unfortunately, as we have to say in many other cases, this is too late. The police would have had this much earlier. In many residential areas, it has been an escalating crime. Gunshots are being deliberately and planned against criminal individuals' homes in residential areas where children live. Shots wines accidentally into innocent people's homes. Explosive charges detonate so that children's bedroom windows explode. This situation could have been avoided if we had had a more energetic government that understood the need not only to work with camera surveillance but also to include it as part of an offensive law enforcement work. Now we have the situation that we have today. The debt for this development lies heavily in the knee of the Red-Green Government. However, we welcome the developments and the report that is on the table today. We had a follow-up motion, just as we have had every year in this House, which is equally obedient to the proposal on which there is now agreement in plenary and in committee. The Left Party is also opposed to this and calls for the committee's proposal to be rejected in the report and for the law enforcement authorities to be able to do all the things on which the rest of us agree. Although there is a broad consensus, it is worth pointing out that in this report, too, the Left Party is folding off. I want to thank you for the late insight into the rest of you. I hope that camera surveillance can now come to the rescue in, for example, car fires. There, the clearance rate so far has been virtually zero. The police's investigation into camera surveillance against the parking areas of vulnerable areas has shown that car fires can be prevented. The Swedish Democrats have proposed that we budget so that the Police Authority can afford to set up cameras in all vulnerable areas so that no person in the country, regardless of income, needs to afford to wake up to a car that has been burned. Today, only half of the affected areas have some form of camera surveillance. We think it's far too little. When an area is so exposed that cars burn each and every other weekend, it is the duty of politics to do something about it. This could be one way. This concerns, on the one hand, the ability of the Political Authority to set up cameras, and, on the other hand, the budgetary, which we will be dealing with later in December. There, the Swedish Democrats have proposed a targeted initiative to the Police Authority to help all vulnerable areas get camera surveillance to curb crime, move crime and increase security for those living there.
i-789d595e82d72703-872	Madam President, I would like As I stated in the previous debate, the one on the penalties for murder, I am a strong supporter of constructive work forward in order to be able to make Sweden a better country to live in with common forces. Being able to discuss without conscious or unconscious misunderstandings and being able to share important knowledge that underpins our positions is a prerequisite for us to be able to move positions and move forward from otherwise locked positions. Every time we develop new measures to make Sweden safer, we must weigh benefits against disadvantages, potential against risks and expected impact against costs. I would really like more of the debate on justice policy to be about that very thing. A criticism that can be levelled at the government from my point of view is a lack of a fundamental idea of what you want to do with justice policy. I feel it's too reactive and passive. Of course you act, but it is only after others put political pressure that this happens. During the last parliamentary term, it was we in the four alliance parties who set the agenda. Although we are four different parties with the differences that exist, we were really good at finding proposals that could go through the Riksdag all the way to announcement and later law through proper preparation. If you want change, it's good to have a plan. Otherwise, you have no idea if you're going in the right direction. If certain things in the area of security in Sweden get better, there are far too many areas that really do not go in the right direction. Without a clear idea of where we want to take justice policy, there is a great risk that the measures that we put in place with effort and trouble will be patchwork without any clear direction, rather than a solid structure where each part addresses problems that need to be resolved. In order to create this, I think we need an infrastructure for how we can agree on where justice policy should take us, what measures best take us there and how we can measure and follow up the results, so that we know if we are doing the right thing. The Center Party has proposed the appointment of a security preparation. It was also one of the 34 points from the interrupted gang talks. The government has said that they will be implemented anyway. My question to the government and its representatives is: What are we waiting for? We need this security preparation in order to have this conversational climate. When it comes to the issue of camera surveillance, it would probably have been easy to paint into a corner that the polemics put us in. You're either for or against. But the fact is that conditions change over time. This issue, like others, is a possible measure to solve some of the security problems. Is that the only method? Is that the best? No, and probably not. However, it exemplifies a little the need to see the measures as a system that, together with other measures, will form the strong structure that can seriously and permanently break back crime. When I debated camera surveillance the first few times, the benefits were about the potential to prevent crime. The risks were that the images of the surveillance cameras could fall astray, be misused and used for purposes other than what was meant. Nowadays, there is a completely different awareness of the importance of data protection. We also have solid legislation in place that regulates use, while today we are taking an important step towards enabling the police and other law enforcement authorities to use cameras in their law enforcement work. In the past, we were able to conclude that the research does not in fact show any significant effects on crime prevention. Rather, the camera images become an important part of the evidence for bringing criminals to court. It is also due to a technological development that has made the camera images better. Madam President, I would like One should not underestimate the normative power of prosecution. The fact that more people are convicted of crimes means that those people cannot commit crimes as long as they are locked up. But it is also the case that others see that more people who commit crimes are caught. I look forward to analysing this, together with you, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the security preparation shortly.
i-789d595e82d72703-884	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a safe country to live in, whether you live in the countryside, in a city or in a suburb. One of the most important tasks of the state is to maintain security through a well-functioning judicial system. The role of our law enforcement authorities in crime prevention is central. Never before has the Swedish judicial system made equal efforts against organised crime. The problems are considerable, and developments have been going on for a long time. Despite successes in the fight against criminal networks in the near future, problems with these networks are growing. However, for the police and other authorities to be effective, they must be given the tools needed to tackle crime in a powerful and legally secure way. This is important for maintaining public confidence in the police and the judiciary. Today we are going to talk about the bill Camera Protection in Law Enforcement – a simpler procedure. The bill proposes that the Act be amended so that the Swedish Coast Guard, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Customs Authority may conduct camera surveillance without the permission of the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The aim is to improve the ability to fight and prosecute crimes through camera surveillance. Madam President, I would like It is indeed high time to move from proposals to actions. The Parliament has made several announcements, namely four. Already in 2016 it was announced to the government that it is important to bring about an order. The requirement was repeated modified in 2017 and 2018 to include the removal of the permit requirement for the police and other authorities' camera surveillance. In the light of this history, it is indeed time that we went to decisions. The handling and decision in committee shows that there is a great deal of agreement in terms of bringing about change. Even this issue, which is a small piece of the puzzle, shows that the Riksdag may run the government ahead of it in order to put in place relevant legislation that can improve law enforcement in our society. Madam President, I would like In 2018, the Camera Surveillance Investigation carried out a survey of the needs for simplified rules. It was then noted that the requirement for permission for camera surveillance has caused problems in law enforcement activities and led to the police and other law enforcement authorities not being given the necessary conditions to carry out their tasks. The Swedish Parliament has on several occasions stressed the need for a pool of forces to prevent crime and increase security, not least in socially vulnerable areas. The police must be able to act quickly to break negative trends. Effective tools are needed for this work. As stated earlier, access to information from camera surveillance is in many cases crucial to the police's ability to prevent crime, interrupt ongoing crime and investigate committed crimes. It is therefore positive that the government has now, although it is rather late, submitted a legislative proposal that will improve the possibilities for our authorities to fight and prosecute crimes through camera surveillance. We Christian Democrats share the government's view that the rules on the processing of personal data and the rules proposed continue to provide strong protection for the privacy of the individual. Madam President, I would like We see that action is needed. For the future, one can consider whether we do not also need to provide the opportunity for increased use and coordination of ANPR cameras in order to be able to interact with different systems where we have an automatic reading. We Christian Democrats support the committee's decision, which supports the government's proposal. In our view, it gives the authorities additional tools and opportunities to fight crime. There is a great deal of agreement in committee, which is good, that this proposal is a small piece of the puzzle needed to meet the needs and wishes of law enforcement authorities in order to reduce crime in our country.
i-789d595e82d72703-895	Madam President, I would like I and the Liberals support this report. It is important that we have an opportunity for our law enforcement authorities to make more offensive and active use of technical means such as camera surveillance to prevent and clear up crime. Liberals have been on that ball quite a few years. Adam Marttinen complained that it had been going on since 2010. I've been doing this since 1998. Shame on the one who surrenders! The proposal is balanced, well thought out and unfortunately necessary. The objections we have heard here, however, are a little startling. Linda Westerlund Snecker from the Left Party is back in the hall. I heard in one speech that this was something to compare with the Chinese dictatorship's monitoring to map people. It is a rather strange exaggeration and, moreover, quite wrong. This is necessary. The wisest thing has been said. I am content to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-789d595e82d72703-898	Madam President, I would like The main objective of criminal policy should be to minimise the number of crimes and, preferably, the most serious crimes. It is particularly important to prevent serious violent and sexual crimes, crimes that threaten life and health and threaten democracy. In order to prevent crime from occurring, preventive work needs to be strong, consistent and thorough. Young boys should not be involved in crime. They're gonna go to school and get the support they need. Those who use children in crime should be looked at more strictly than is the case today. The resolution of crimes, and the conviction of the perpetrators of crime, is in itself a prevention of crime. It is more important that crimes can be cleared up than what penalties are imposed if you look at them from a crime prevention perspective. Today, the case is about new rules for camera surveillance. The proposal is that a number of authorities should not need the permission they have needed until now by the Swedish Data Protection Authority to set up cameras. However, the authorities still need to balance the integrity aspects, which is essential to remember in the discussion. Madam President, I would like Camera surveillance is something that can help clear up and solve crimes. As technology has improved, its use has become more effective. When the issue was discussed 15 or 20 years ago, the cameras were not as good. They were not as effective a tool for solving crimes. Today they are better than they were before. We're going to use modern technology to solve crime. To the extent that this prevents the crimes from happening, it is of course extremely positive. It is not only when it comes to cameras that technology has progressed. It has done so in terms of DNA technology and in other areas as well. We as politicians should be sensitive to the tools that police and others need. It is important that they have sufficient tools to tackle crime. But it is essential in this context to remember that there are other perspectives that are also important. A number of years ago – 2007, 2008 and 2009 – there was a big discussion. It was long before my time in Parliament. The discussion concerned the FRA law and the privacy aspects that followed it. At that time, all the political youth associations were against the law. The then chairman of the Moderate Youth League Niklas Wykman, the successor of Jo Han Forssell, threatened to leave the Moderates in case you agree to this. The discussion today is very different. It is clear that society is changing. But you don't have to go from one extreme to another. We must also include the integrity aspects when discussing how to prevent crime and how to solve crime. I obviously do not think that this is anything like supervision in the Communist dictatorship. However, even if we do not go all the way, we still need to assess the aspects of privacy. When the discussion changes in society in a relatively short time, it must be ensured that it does not drag too far. In this context, I think the balance is reasonable. There may be a need for more cameras. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal in the report and the proposal. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say something to Johan Hedin, who raised the proposal he and the Center Party have made on the preparation of security. That was a very wise suggestion. It was good that the government went forward with it in the 34-point program after the gang talks. I see that such work can have great potential. It is important to look a little further ahead and see which proposals can be implemented to prevent and prevent crime but also look a little more long-term at what tools and resources you should have for law enforcement authorities. I look forward to such a preparation being put in place.
i-789d595e82d72703-911	Madam President, I would like This is such a debate that should never really have to happen. It is the case that the Riksdag must tighten the penalty for the abuse of children by purchasing sexual acts. There are two things that are so wrong with what I have just said: the exploitation of children and the purchase of sexual action. But it is a good proposal that the government has put on the table of the Riksdag, and the Left Party supports the punitive measures being taken. There are quite a few penalties that the Left Party has been involved in pushing through. The penalty for rape should be increased, the Sex Purchase Act, double criminality for sex purchases abroad, speeding fines should be given according to income, the punishment for trafficking and the arms legislation should be tougher. There are many cases in which the Left Party believes that the length of the penalty does not indicate the seriousness of the crime, and then there must be an increase. That is why the penalty for buying sex must be tougher. It is time to remove the financial penalty and instead send the cod into prison. Not every man who buys sex should get away with paying a few hundred dollars in fines. It is enough with your brutal exploitation of vulnerable people. I'll put my foot down. Selling your body for sex, being forced to sell your body in order for others to touch it, exploit it and do what they want with it is such a terrible situation that it is difficult to grasp and understand. Not increasing the penalty for crimes against one of the most vulnerable victims of society is a betrayal of the victims of crime, against all women and men who are forced to sell their bodies to the cod. It's about the person who commits the crime being able to get away with paying only a few hundred bucks. That is why the person who has sold sex should be given the status of plaintiff in the legal process. Then the victim, the person who has sold sex, will also be entitled to legal aid and compensation for damages. That's getting real redress. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is the only party that wants to increase the penalty for buying sex. I'm surprised. But it also says something about sex buying legislation and how feminist all other parties really are. Because all of a sudden other parties, such as the Liberals, feel that a stricter punishment would make it more difficult for the victim of the crime – for the victim of the crime! So if we nail the cod, the victim will have a tougher situation. Excuse me, but is it also about other crimes? Is this gang crime, perhaps? Is this about assault? No, I thought so. When it comes to all other forms of crime, there is talk about the victim getting redress by giving the perpetrator a severe penalty. But not when men buy sex from other people, a crime that has been criminalized for 21 years. It is to betray victims – every woman and man who is forced to sell his body. But it's also class contempt. For it is not the elite of society who find a last resort to survival by selling their body for sex. They are the ones who stand and balance on the edge: poverty, addiction, mental illness, vulnerability and exploitation. Everyone has a story of their own about why they end up there. What is clear is that the myth of the happy whore lives strongly among today's political parties. Class contempt shines through. Madam President, I would like It is men who maintain and stimulate the demand for sexual services – whether the person selling sex is a woman, a man, a transpersonal person or a non-binary. Human bodies become a commodity for men's sexuality. It is a commodity that can be bought, consumed and disposed of. The death rate for prostituted women is 40 times higher than for the rest of the population. According to Europol, hundreds of shot, strangled and beaten women's bodies exposed to sex slavery are found every year. It is time to put an end to this madness. It is time to remove the financial penalty for the crime of buying sex. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-789d595e82d72703-924	Madam President, I would like This year it is 20 years since the Sex Purchase Act came into force. Sweden was the first in the world to have legislation that criminalises purchases, not sales, based on the assessment that victims should not be criminalised. The effects have been positive and the ban has had a normative effect. We should be happy and proud of the law, but it can always be better. Despite the law, more than 7 per cent of Swedish men have ever bought sex, and as long as men continue to buy sex, we can never achieve an equal society. A fundamental value in our society should be that no one, either male or female, has the right to buy another human being. Buying sex from children is a criminal act and will remain so. And, of course, it is unreasonable to get away with fines for such a crime. The Committee on Justice's report No 7, Criminal measures against the exploitation of children through the purchase of sexual acts, is what we are now debating. I would like to take this opportunity to support the proposal as well. What is it about? Well, it's about us wanting to tighten the penalties for cases where you buy a sexual act from children. Children in this case are between the ages of 15 and 18. Instead, in cases where a sexual act is purchased from younger children, it is a matter of rape against children. And finally, we are now removing fines from the penalty scale! The minimum sentence will be two weeks in prison. In addition, we raise the maximum sentence from two to four years in prison. Furthermore, we are proposing a new criminal code, the exploitation of children through the purchase of sexual acts, rather than the purchase of sexual acts today. It may seem to be marginal, but it is a signal to society that it is about exploitation. Inequality and power structures also appear in prostitution and human trafficking. Madam President, I would like Equality cannot be achieved as long as men buy, sell and exploit women and children by prostitution. Prostitution and trafficking in women are part of men's violence against women and children. Sex purchases are not about women's sexuality but about men's sexuality and men's control of women. Trafficking is a cynical and ruthless trade in people who are the slave trade of our time. Europe's countries are, to varying degrees, countries of destination, transit and countries of origin for traffickers. We know that it is often underage girls who are sold for prostitution. Priority must be given to combating prostitution and trafficking in human beings, child pornography and other sexual exploitation of children. Buying access to another person's body regardless of where – on the street, on the internet or in any other context – is about exploiting someone who is in a state of power or dependence. An overwhelming majority of people who are in prostitution do so because of compelling circumstances such as homelessness, poverty and/ or abuse. In addition, many have been sexually abused at an early age. Madam President, I would like In 2018, 131 cases of child sexual acts were reported. That's 131 too many, of course. At the same time, we know that there is a dark number. In October, a 43-year-old man was convicted at the District Court for buying sexual acts from children on three occasions. The girl was 16 years old. The man got in touch with the girl via an online escort service ad, where she was presented as a young girl. Sugar dating is the term you usually use about escort services online to describe a relationship between an elderly person with money and status in society and a younger person who gets paid with money or gifts to be in the relationship. In August, I heard about a 14-year-old girl who sat down on one of the pages to – as she thought – make some money by being the companion of an older man. She wanted to buy herself some new clothes. She quickly got into the situation that the men wanted more than company and were then sexually abused. This is a way of normalizing prostitution that we must see and take seriously. Madam President, I would like We agree in committee that it needs to be a higher minimum penalty, as expressed in the report. This is now being prepared in the Government Office, and the government will shortly set up an investigation and then come back to Parliament. Since there has been an announcement since before and the government is working on the matter, we have given a special opinion on that matter of form.
i-789d595e82d72703-938	Madam President, I would like The Left Party supports the bill put forward by the government, and I agree with a great deal of what Maria Strömkvist said in her speech. But I would like to turn to the issue of buying adult sex. Today Aftonbladet writes that there are over 1,200 ads online for prostitutes selling sex, and it is only in Stockholm. At the same time, the police have closed down the prostitution group, i.e. the police group that worked to get to the cod and help the prostitutes. They had well-established collaborations, just as Maria Strömkvist and I want it to work. The police worked with social services, with victim support and with non-profit relief organisations, just as we want it to work. Now that the prostitution group no longer exists and the police have reorganized themselves, the hotels believe that when they call the police, there is no longer any help. Hashtag # intedinhora means that now it is free for the cod to ravage.
i-789d595e82d72703-942	Madam President, I would like I will begin with the second question. I can't tell you why the police have done it at all. But I can worry that the second thing that happens in society means that we reduce resources but also reduce this violence against women – regardless of age, I think in that case. This report is now about children or between the ages of 15 and 18. But other things that the government has tried to bring to light in the case of adults are double criminality, which I know we agree with the Left Party. But there is no majority in the Swedish parliament for men who buy sex abroad to be able to be judged for it in Sweden. That would be one way of ensuring that we do not export the cod. It is the cod who are the problem, not the victims in the form of women. The second thing that has happened is the new rape legislation, on which we also agree with the Left Party. We are now seeing convictions where men have been convicted of rape when they have bought those who are victims of trafficking in human beings. So I am thinking that other things have happened that make us move forward, even if we do not have legislation on penalties higher than fines for buying adult women for sex.
i-789d595e82d72703-946	Madam President, I would like Like Maria Strömkvist, I am delighted that we have a feminist policy that gives an impression in the legal process. Consent law is a huge victory with which we should be incredibly pleased. If I have understood correctly in terms of double criminality for sex purchases abroad, the Christian Democrats are the party that stands and falters. I hope that the Christian Democrats can finally put their foot down and say things not only in the election movement but also in the Committee on Justice. We don't want to export the cod. I think it's an important signal to remove the fine for buying sex even from adults. We're doing it now for kids. It is time to take the next step, precisely because the police's priority of sexual crimes in general must be much higher. That is what the Left Party's main motivation is to increase the penalty for this form of crime – that the police should spend more resources on and be able to work more clearly to overcome the problem that men often buy women's bodies. It is therefore unfortunate that the prostitution group has been closed down. I know that they work in similar forms in the police regions. Among other things, in Jönköping, the police have worked well together with the hotels and women's shelters. That is exactly how we know to work with vulnerable people, particularly vulnerable women. I look forward to a report from the government parties and initiatives that we need to work more actively with different forms of prostitution groups in the police, because this is an incredibly important issue that we must together get right to combat men's violence against women.
i-789d595e82d72703-951	Madam President, I would like I can't promise anything about what the government's report is, but I can promise that we will be working incredibly hard on the issue in the future. It is just as Linda Westerlund Snecker says: that women are being exploited here is not worthy of a country like Sweden. We need to take a strong stand against it. I also think it is important that we see this throughout the country. Today it is not about a street in Stockholm where there may be prostitutes. It is about advertisements online and is available throughout the country, and it must also be seen throughout the country. Many people need to open their eyes to what is going on in Sweden right now. If there is a report or not, I do not know, but there will probably be more proposals in this area a little later.
i-789d595e82d72703-954	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal. Unfortunately, the proposal we are now debating is a clear example of too little and too late. In this proposal, the government proposes measures to strengthen criminal law protection against the purchase of sexual acts by children. In substance, it is proposed to tighten the scale of penalties for the purchase of sexual acts by children, partly by tightening the minimum penalty from fine to prison and partly by raising the maximum penalty to prison for four years. The minimum penalty thus becomes the general prison minimum, i.e. prison for 14 days. It is also proposed to change the criminal code to the exploitation of children through the purchase of sexual acts. The Moderates welcome a better and clearer criminal code and the strengthening of criminal law protection against the purchase of sexual acts by children, but object that the strengthening is insufficient. It is simply too little and too late, and this is particularly unfortunate when it comes to crimes against children. The Swedish Parliament decided a year and a half ago that the scale of penalties for the purchase of sexual acts by children should be tightened. The acts of the provision always constitute a serious violation of the child. There is reason to state clearly that the purchase of sexual acts by children has a higher penalty value than similar acts committed against adults. Children who are victims of sexual abuse can be harmed to life and subjected to enormous suffering that no child should have to endure. Children who have been subjected to sexual abuse have more difficulty in school, suffer more often from mental illness and often exhibit self-harm. Children are also experts at telling themselves that everything that happens in their environment and everything that happens to them is their fault. Therefore, children who are victims of sexual abuse often suffer from great anxiety, shame, and guilt. Sweden has been criticised by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, the so-called Committee on the Rights of the Child, for not taking the purchase of sexual acts by children seriously enough and for not being proportionate to the penalties for this crime. The Government has had plenty of time to prepare and come to Parliament with the proposals that Parliament has already requested but has not been able to make the necessary proposals. This is regrettable, especially as it concerns crimes against children. The Parliament will therefore have to announce again to the government, with tomorrow's vote, that the penalty for the purchase of sexual acts by children should be increased and that the minimum penalty should be six months in prison.
i-789d595e82d72703-961	Madam President, I would like In the Committee on Justice we have something of a unique situation, which the Moderates are pushing. It is about over 100 announcements, mostly about sharpened penalties in various forms, that the Moderates want to push through the Riksdag. The Moderates also have a very high pitch in law and order. It is clear that you want these issues on the political agenda. You're running for SD to match their suggestions and be the toughest on the floor. It should be longer, tougher, harder and faster in many cases, but not when it comes to buying sex. It appears to be a blind spot for the Moderates. I have a very simple question: Why do the Moderates valley with the cods?
i-789d595e82d72703-964	Madam President, I would like It is a bit strange to follow this debate this afternoon. In its reservation, the Left Party writes that a penalty for buying adult sex would indicate that society takes this crime very seriously and that it would be a clear indication to prioritise this. So the Left Party obviously has the ability to see the link between harsher penalties, the mark of society and a deterrent effect. The Left Party did not have that earlier today when we discussed perhaps the most serious crime, murder. At that time, the link between harsher penalties, the mark of society and a deterrent effect was not seen. My question back to the Left Party is therefore: why does the Left Party see the link between harsher penalties and a deterrent effect in this case, but not with regard to other crimes?
i-789d595e82d72703-966	Madam President, I would like It is exciting with a party that has hardly any crime prevention policy, but puts the gunpowder on sharper penalties. It is believed that it would in itself be crime prevention to lock people up. I don't know what criminologists would say about that reasoning, but it's not true. Then it is exciting with a party that cannot argue that the victims of sex purchases, the most vulnerable and fragile victims of crime, who are almost never on the political agenda, should receive redress and justice for the terrible crime they have been subjected to while other victims get it. Take, for example, the penalties for murder, gang crime and shootings. There, the victim gets redress through the harsh punishment. I find it interesting that the Moderates are making a difference between victims. It is clear that prostitutes do not have the same weight and do not need the same attention in the debate on law and order as, for example, victims of gang crime or shootings. I wonder why there's such a difference. Why can you dyke with a type of perpetrator while other types of perpetrators should receive a much tougher penalty? I know why I think there's a difference between crime and crime. It's about the police order of priority. We know that the police are not investigating sexual crimes to the extent that they should. It is not a high priority within the organization, and the competence is not very high. Many rapes are reported but are not investigated, and no one is convicted. That's why I want to tighten up the punishment for sexual crimes. But why do you want to dawdle with the cods?
i-789d595e82d72703-970	Madam President, I would like All victims shall receive redress. In the case of the purchase of six of an adult, there is prison on the scale of punishment and should be used if deemed necessary. However, with regard to this particular report and what we are discussing now, the Left Party proposes that it should be the same minimum penalty if you have bought sex from an adult as if you have bought sex from a child. Is it really reasonable that buying sex from an adult is considered the same as taking advantage of a child?
i-789d595e82d72703-971	I would remind you that everyone speaks through the President.
i-789d595e82d72703-972	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on criminal law against the exploitation of children through the purchase of sexual acts. On this issue, I personally have been involved in writing the committee motion that the Swedish Democrats have been pursuing for many years that fines are a very minor punishment for the person who exposes a child to sexual abuse, in this case the purchase of sexual action. We have long been in favour of removing fines from the penalty scale for a range of actions involving sexual abuse of children. It is not only when it comes to buying sexual action that we have seen a problem. However, this issue has been raised not least by the announcement that we managed to get through almost a year and a half ago, if not more, in the Committee on Justice. We agreed that the minimum penalty should be tightened up and that the fine or imprisonment for two weeks is too low. We wanted six months in prison as a minimum sentence. Whether this is reasonable or not is, of course, an issue to be discussed between parties. It is clear that individual parties may feel that it is too little, while some may think it should be less. I may think it may be too little with six months, but that is what we managed to agree on in the announcement to the government. Despite the fact that we have had an announcement to the government for a year and a half now, we have a report which has removed fines from the penalty scale, and so it is two weeks' imprisonment that applies. I think this is a little too little from the government. I think we can ask for more when there has been so much time between the report that is on the table today and the announcement in committee, which clearly stipulated at least six months. Now this debate has come to be about sexual crimes a little more generally. Unfortunately, sexual crime in the legislation has become a bit of a patchwork. The government has adapted to announcements by the opposition, and in some cases it has not chosen to increase the penalties for certain crimes. Therefore, the Swedish democrats have exercised to make a total review of the 6th chapter. The criminal code to get a more coherent penalty scale for a variety of sexual crimes. For example, the punishment for rape has not been regulated while the penalties for the grosser crimes in the same category have been tightened. Given that we want a review in which a coherent scale of penalties is made more clearly for several categories of crime, we are pleased that there is a declaration and that the government parties in the report recognise that it is an announcement to be met. Of course, I would have been more pleased if we had been able to take a decision on this already today and that the legislation of 1 January 2020 would have been at least six months in prison. It would have shown more clearly what a serious crime this is. But we're in opposition. We'll have to be happy with what's happening anyway. With that summary, I would like to support the committee's proposal with the announcement that is also included.
i-789d595e82d72703-979	Madam President, I would like The purchase of sexual services for children – the exploitation of children through the purchase of sexual services – only the name of what we are discussing today gives a chill on the back, and it can be said that the world is not beautiful. This is the worst of crimes against children and against young girls and boys. It doesn't make any sense. I find it very strange that, so far, only the minimum penalty has been imposed. It's even more incomprehensible. Fortunately, today a united parliament wants to change the minimum penalty. Finally, one can say, after it has been requested by the same Parliament for many years. Nevertheless, I find it very unsatisfactory that the minimum penalty is not fixed. Here too, however, a reasonably unanimous parliament has supported an announcement that the government will return with proposals to set the sentence for at least six months as soon as possible. If the government has been working on this issue for several years, the Riksdag can simply give its announcement over and over again until the Government delivers. When it comes to buying sex in adults, we have a situation that is very unsatisfactory and completely incomprehensible. The government has chosen not to make any further proposals regarding the Sex Purchase Act in this bill, but I hope that together we can push forward sharper proposals in this area in due course. Today there are about 800 reported cases of sex purchases every year. We can safely conclude that there is certainly a great number of darkness. About a quarter of the cases notified lead to them. Fines are very common; prison is very rare. About one in ten men buys sex. So when are the sex purchases going on? A study suggests that the most common time for buying sex is between four and six in the afternoon, before picking up children in kindergarten. It is also common during lunchtime. You slip out a little at lunch. The women are the most vulnerable. They are drug addicts and not infrequently victims of trafficking, i.e. victims of human trafficking. Well, how do we change this? If the easiest thing was to raise the penalties, I'd raise my hand and stand behind it. This issue was also discussed by the Human Trade Investigation, and the investigation did not actually suggest that the penalties should be increased. When we had a party vote in the Center Party there were motions on this. We came to the conclusion that there is a problem in the verdicts today. Not only when it comes to buying sex but also other crimes, the courts tend to interfere in the lower part of the penalty scale and rarely in the upper one. This is something we need to review. Why is it like this? The Center Party has highlighted this in its committee motion. I hope that we can get back to Parliament as soon as possible with suggestions on how to remedy this. It is not just about raising the minimum penalty but also about other things – perhaps raising maximum penalties or other appropriate measures, compulsory treatment and so on. KAST, the buyer of sexual services, is a method that you work with quite successfully so that the criminals who buy sex will not relapse into crime. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-789d595e82d72703-989	Madam President, I would like A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law be prosecuted and punished. It is important to protect law-abiding people, to restore victims and to maintain a signal system about what is right and what is wrong. This debate concerns criminal proceedings against the exploitation of children through the purchase of sexual acts. It is extremely important to protect children and young people from getting involved in prostitution. We are very much in agreement here in Parliament. In considering the purchase of a child's sexual act, the protection aspects of the child are particularly prominent and there is a great interest in preventing child abuse through the purchase of documents. The Swedish legislation should make it clear that the offence is unacceptable. Against this background, the view on the crime of buying sexual acts of children should be tightened up. The scale of penalties should be amended so that the minimum penalty is increased from a fine to a prison sentence, and the proposal also changes the name of the offence. The amendment aims to clarify the gravity of the crime. As has been described, the Riksdag has for a number of years been making announcements to the Government about changes to this law. As pointed out in the bill, the crime of buying a child's sexual act constitutes a serious violation of the child. We Christian Democrats agree that it should be made clear that the crime is unacceptable and that the view of the crime should be tightened up. As for the question of the scale of penalties for the crime, the Riksdag decided as early as spring 2018 to announce that the government would return to the Riksdag with a proposal to raise the minimum penalty to six months in prison, as the Riksdag believes that the penalties we have today do not sufficiently counteract and mark against the unacceptable in buying sexual acts of children. The government has thus had plenty of time to draft a bill. However, as it seems, it is only now that the Government instructs an investigator to review the issues raised as a result of the Riksdag's announcement in 2018. Against this background, we Christian Democrats, together with a majority in the committee, believe that Parliament should make a new announcement that the government should urgently return with a bill introducing the minimum sentence of six months' imprisonment for the crime. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats welcome the government proposal, even if it comes late. I am in favour of the proposal for a decision, and I also support the announcement. It is urgent to take steps to indicate from society that the purchase of sexual acts by children is not acceptable. As I said, we want the minimum penalty for the purchase of child sexual acts to be raised to six months in prison. This is also what the Riksdag has announced to the government. Unfortunately, the Government has not carried out active work to fulfil the mission of the Riksdag. We now expect the government to take the announcement more seriously and come back with a proposal for a legislative amendment without further delay.
i-789d595e82d72703-998	Madam President, I would like The exposure of children who are victims of sex trafficking and abuse is, of course, disgusting. It is easy for the Liberals to support this bill. It is just as easy to support the announcement that is being made if we are to have another penalty minimum for child abuse through the purchase of sexual action. This area is incomprehensiblely large and incomprehensiblely difficult. Things happen remotely, children are smuggled and children are traded. Children who are very, very wounded sell themselves, and it is clear that the penalty for buying a child should be at a different level than a very short prison sentence. I would like to tie in with what we have talked about earlier today in this House. If you want to access this business in the long term, it is of course about strengthening cooperation, because this is nothing that only happens in Sweden. Cooperation within the European Union must be deepened, and we must also act globally in every way. A lot of proposals are being put forward here which are almost difficult to comment on. One second you don't think we should tighten up the penalty for murder, but here it should be tightened up. Sometimes we hear that we want to tighten up all the penalties. I would like to say, for the record's sake, that this is not the case. We think it is reasonable that we have the level of punishment we have for theft and abuse. You can't expect everything to be tightened up and forced into prison all the time. Therefore, the Liberals do not support the reservation. However, it is not a question of us not seeing that the fight for the vulnerable women is right. The Liberals are in favour of the proposal contained in the report and are pleased with the announcement which now calls for the government to return as soon as possible. I note that the government itself, represented in the Parliament, did not reserve itself against this announcement.
