i-ATNd3r5ieMr2VDFg7L8iKf	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Tomas Eneroth, Minister for Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Ann Linde and Minister for Education Anna Ekström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-8753b306d031d54f-1	Madam President, I would like I have a general political question. In 2013, Stefan Löfven promised the EU's lowest unemployment rate. At that time, Sweden was in tenth place among the EU countries. After a term of Social Democratic rule, we are now in 19th place, despite a prolonged boom. Although unemployment has fallen as a result of the boom, it has fallen more rapidly in other countries and is lower in countries with weaker economic cycles. I also note that the unemployment case was not mentioned at all in the government declaration, which is astounding. There is also a lack of policies for more jobs in the agreement which is now the basis of government policy. Instead, it focuses on reduced taxes for high-income earners and on people working less. My question is therefore: is it not time to recognise that social democratic employment policy, including the unemployment target, has failed?
i-8753b306d031d54f-5	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Saila Quicklund! We are in a situation where we have the highest employment ever in Sweden, where we have halved the time for overseas born to enter the Swedish labour market and where the big challenge is rather to meet the lack of skilled staff, as a result of cuts in education and labour market policy during the time of the predecessor government. In view of this, it is a rather remarkable claim that the employment policy pursued during the last parliamentary term would be a failure. On the contrary, Sweden has a special position with high employment rates, not least in terms of female employment rates. Of course, it is a challenge to ensure that everyone who has come to Sweden in recent years will have a chance to enter the labour market, and that requires further efforts. There's no doubt about it. Of course, it is also a huge challenge to ensure that we can cope with the shortcomings in the supply of skills we can see whether we are talking about a common sector, specific industrial aspects or certain sectors. Therefore, investments in universities of applied sciences and similar things are incredibly important. So I feel confident about the employment policy that has been pursued, but of course it needs to be sharpened.
i-8753b306d031d54f-9	Madam President, I would like The government is pleased to announce that the employment rate is record high in Sweden. Yes, it is in many countries; it is a boom in Europe. Moreover, only yesterday the Minister for Labour blamed the government's failure on the M- and KD-budget that has now been in force for three weeks. Note: three weeks! The fact is, however, that we have lost position with the Social Democratic Government, and my question is: is it not time to actually take responsibility and acknowledge the failure of the government in this area?
i-8753b306d031d54f-11	Madam President, I would like We take responsibility. We took responsibility during the last parliamentary term to ensure that we get the highest level of employment ever, and we will now take responsibility for ensuring that we make the right efforts. It is not just a question of tax cuts or reductions in employers' contributions which reduce the thresholds for entry into the labour market, but also, of course, of having the resources for training measures, not least in terms of vocational training. This is how we, together with the social partners and the Swedish business community, find an opportunity to bring even more people into the labour market. I therefore feel confident in this development – and I note that there can actually be more resources provided with a different budget than the Parliament has decided on.
i-8753b306d031d54f-14	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. I had the honour of meeting the Minister again this morning, when we discussed the family reunification announced in the January agreement. I noted this morning, and have noted in general in the discussions that have taken place, that the crisis is over and that there is a very limited number of people who can come. Whether a crisis is over when we still have housing shortages, many people in exclusion, imbalances at the Migration Agency and long queues and shortcomings in almost all of our social system can of course be discussed. I now wonder: Why is the figure of 8 000 used when it comes to how many are to come? It is based on a forecast based on limited resources – that you simply don't have time to make more decisions than that.
i-8753b306d031d54f-17	Madam President, I would like Firstly, I believe that there is no reason for any kind of alarmism on this issue. I know that there are parties that want to blow it up. I was involved in taking Sweden out of the refugee crisis, and I am not going to help us get back into the same situation. Nor will this proposal mean that, even if some parties try to say so. As I said, this is about a very limited group. The assessment we have received from the Migration Agency is that the number that comes from family reunification from this group will increase by approximately 8 000 in three years. It is therefore less than 3 000 per year. We are talking about 90% of women and children, who have previously lived in refugee camps, perhaps in Jordan or Turkey, and who now have the opportunity to reunite with their husband and father. I think this is a magnificent and important humanitarian effort that we are capable of doing.
i-8753b306d031d54f-19	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer to my question, which concerned that the figure is based on having a limited budget. It is true that few will be allowed to come, because there is no time to make any more decisions. There are far more people who come here; the Migration Board's figures point up again both as regards those who will apply for asylum and as regards those who will apply for family reunification. This morning, the ID checks were also mentioned briefly, referring to alarmism. We have seen reports that border controls really do not work. The Ministry of Justice has replied that it is not possible to comment on the tasks of individual employees. What is being done to ensure – not assume – that border controls work?
i-8753b306d031d54f-21	Madam President, I would like We see no increase in asylum reception in that part. It is rather the case that we currently have the lowest reception in Sweden in 13 years, and what we are doing now will not mean that those figures will increase significantly again. That is why I say that this will not mean that we are entering a new refugee crisis. As far as border controls are concerned, the police now have more money than ever to move with, and more employees than ever to move with. I think it is important that resources are allocated in such a way that we are prepared to strengthen border controls more than we have already done.
i-8753b306d031d54f-24	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. It was with despair, sadness and pure anger that I took part this week in Gothenburg's review of threats and harassment against our farmers. The review shows a series of terrible examples of what our farmers are exposed to. When as many as were fourth agricultural entrepreneurs are concerned about being subjected to threats and harassment by extreme animal rights activists, the situation is extremely serious. Threats and violence in the name of animal rights are a social and democratic problem, not a problem for individual entrepreneurs. We now need concrete measures, as requested by the Center Party. My question is whether the government intends to take action to address the problem. And if so, what measures?
i-8753b306d031d54f-28	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I had the privilege of sitting down and meeting representatives of the Farmers' Association in connection with the conference Folk och Försvar i Sälen a few weeks ago. The main subject was, in fact, the attacks and harassment of farmers – we have seen some high-profile cases. We've done a lot. Among other things, we have tightened the penalties for grossly illegal threats and tightened the view on illegal threats. We have also made sure that we devote increased resources to the police in such a way that they now have more money than ever. They are now also up to over 20,000 police officers. It is important for us to point out that these reinforcements of resources must benefit the whole country and that they must also be able to be used to take action against this type of crime.
i-8753b306d031d54f-32	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, but more concrete measures are needed to tackle the problem. The Center Party has proposed, among other things, to stop funds for violent organisations, to introduce a specific crime code, to strengthen protection for hunters and to review the law on, among other things, home peace crimes. Are these measures that the government could possibly take?
i-8753b306d031d54f-34	Madam President, I would like I am prepared to go through all the suggestions that may be in the debate to see if we can do anything further in this part. As I said, I also take very seriously the type of politically motivated crime that this is, which can mean that individuals get very hurt and may eventually not be able to carry on their business. I am prepared to consider further measures, and of course no money should go to violent organisations – there I think we are in complete agreement.
i-8753b306d031d54f-37	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Tomas Eneroth. In the government declaration, we were told that health insurance should provide financial security in the event of illness. I wonder how the current government will resolve this issue. People today feel chased and suspicious about health insurance. They are being questioned and violated by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Many no longer have confidence in health insurance. For example, a majority of metal workers do not believe that they can cope with everyday life if they fall ill. The bourgeois government almost destroyed health insurance in 2008 and created rules that were so harsh that we got the hardest law in the whole OECD. The problem is that the current government has not changed much, and a great many people are being assured. What is the government going to do about this?
i-8753b306d031d54f-41	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question and for your commitment. During the previous term of office, many efforts were made to develop and improve the work on the increase in ill-health, not least the increase in mental ill-health. Work environment was strengthened and good efforts were made to strengthen the right to rehabilitation. But there is no doubt that there are also shortcomings, as many feel that they do not get the full response they want. That is why we need to develop health insurance and ensure that you have an increased opportunity and right to rehabilitation and that you get the right to the compensation you should receive. This means that we need both to develop the regulatory framework in health insurance and to review how the labour market can function better. As I mentioned earlier, we have a high level of employment. This leads to the entry of disadvantaged groups into the labour market. Then the work environment must also be improved so that more people are not knocked out. There is a great deal more to be developed here, and we will deal with that.
i-8753b306d031d54f-47	Madam President, I would like Can I have Tomas Eneroth's words that it will be easier, for example, to receive sickness benefits and that the rules will be more humane during this term of office? Since Annika Strandhäll introduced the requirement for reduced sickness rates, the rejections have tripled. It is not reasonable that we have such tough rules and that we stand out throughout the Western world with these hard rules. People must receive their sickness benefit when they fall ill. Seriously ill women who have worked their whole lives do not receive sickness benefits today. How does Tomas Eneroth respond to that?
i-8753b306d031d54f-50	Madam President, I would like There are two parts to this. First, we will try to get a development in working life that will prevent you from suffering from illness. We will try to improve the working environment and get a sustainable working life so that you do not suffer ill health, and if you do so, there will be a clear responsibility for employers and great opportunities for the parties to help the person in question with conversion and rehabilitation efforts. When it comes to compensation, you should be entitled to it. It is important that it be tried in a legally secure manner. There are shortcomings there that have been highlighted. It must be ensured that Försäkringskassan receives the right information and that the assessment is made in a legally secure manner. In this way, we will have safe and sustainable health insurance.
i-8753b306d031d54f-54	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Eneroth a question. The question of the elderly dominated the electoral movement in an enormous number of ways. The elderly are needed longer in working life for the sake of well-being. Older people need more care and medical care. More than 300 000 elderly people have home care or live in special housing and, according to estimates, 32 000 new jobs are needed in home care. The number of elderly people who do not receive care on time is increasing. Involuntary loneliness affects many older people, and the number of so-called poor pensioners is increasing and far too high. None of this prompted the Prime Minister to appoint an elder minister. It makes no sense to me.
i-FNcjKdrxaRqQaSXKF77XsG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Michael Anefur, for the question and for the commitment! It is not up to me to have views on how the formation of government is going to be or what government positions exist. On the other hand, I feel confident in the government's strong commitment to the situation of the elderly, to investing in care for the elderly and to ensuring that the pensioner tax that the Christian Democrats were involved in introducing can now be phased out. We strengthen pensions and provide resources by increasing state subsidies to municipalities and regions so that elderly care and health care for the elderly can be developed. There is no doubt that we have major shortcomings. We must ensure that there are resources for good care for the elderly. This was done during the last parliamentary term, and the work for a safe old age will continue.
i-8753b306d031d54f-60	Madam President, I would like It is possible that Minister Eneroth has not had to do with the lack of appointment of an elder minister, but this is still one of the most important issues. In the previous government, a minister of the future was appointed – it was considered a priority, but an elderly minister is not considered a priority. Again, it makes no sense. But I still have to thank the Government for the answer.
i-8753b306d031d54f-62	Madam President, I would like Again, the important thing is actually what you do. In this case, we can see that considerable efforts were already made during the last parliamentary term to secure care for the elderly in terms of the supply of staff and resources, in terms of improving quality and, not least, in terms of specific support for the construction of housing for the elderly. Of course, that work will continue to a large extent. The important thing is that we are seriously ensuring that we are able to get competent staff in care for the elderly and that we – not least together with civil society – face the challenge of increasing numbers of lonely elderly people. There we have a joint commitment, and I look forward to working together on this.
i-8753b306d031d54f-65	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström, whom I would also like to congratulate on the new mission as Minister of Education. Today, at the request of the Liberals, the Education Committee called the Special Educational School Authority to address the major social problem of so-called home sitters, i.e. young people – pupils – who, due to lack of support at school, choose not to go to school but for various reasons remain at home. The reason and background vary, but lack of support, lack of adapted teaching, bullying and a messy situation and work environment outside the classroom are some of the reasons. What emerged clearly, Madam President, at the committee hearing today was that we do not really know how far the problem is.
i-8753b306d031d54f-69	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, both for the congratulations and for the question. That is a very important question. Being a home sitter has a strong connection with not being able to pass school in time. That may sound obvious, but the figures speak very clearly. We all know how important it is to have a complete upper secondary education in order to do well in life, in order to be able to take a job, study further and participate in the social debate, etcetera. The connection between being at home and not coping with this is very strong, so there is every reason to really focus on this problem. There are old studies and also proposals that lie in investigations that are about ensuring a follow-up responsibility. I will come back as soon as the matter is settled in the Government Office. I can also promise that I will work closely and closely with Roger Haddad and his party friends on this issue, because the school is such an important part of the 73-point programme that we have developed together.
i-8753b306d031d54f-74	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. The problem of home sitting must be tackled at national level. Local support does not help. In the January agreement with the government, we have been informed that the regulations on inclusion need to be reviewed, that we need smaller teaching groups and more resource schools. As the Director-General said today, it is sometimes more about placement than inclusion. It's a huge failure that at least 5,500 children are outside. When will the national statistics, the Government?
i-8753b306d031d54f-77	Madam President, I would like It is true, as the Director-General of the SPS said at the hearing, that much local support is needed. My assessment is also that more national support is needed to ensure that there are opportunities locally to provide the support that individual students and groups need. Today, three days into the new term of office, I cannot answer the specific question put by Roger Haddad. However, I can assure Roger Haddad that this is an issue that the government will take very seriously and that we also ensure that we have good cooperation with Parliament on this issue.
i-8753b306d031d54f-80	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the renewed confidence. The previous government did a lot to get our Swedish roads in order. I have been courted by both the haulage industry and the unions, many times to discuss how Sweden should do so that you get better conditions. I myself have heard and seen how bad it has been for the people who have driven lorries on Swedish roads, often from countries in Eastern Europe. It has not just been about getting a level playing field, but it has been about these people getting better social conditions. Now we have an EU settlement in place. Then my question to the Government is: how do you view the settlement that has been made in the EU, and how is the law to be complied with and controlled?
i-VLQRnhbcJ33zvW3qB2iTpw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Denis, for the question and for the congratulations. I very much appreciate the commitment to order and order in our ways. It is one of the government's and my heart's concerns, because we cannot stand by and watch lorry drivers, often from Eastern Europe, being exploited in appalling conditions. You can see them in a parking lot where they sleep in the driver's cab. In addition, we know that it is an activity that affects Swedish haulage companies with unfair competition. That is why we have made several efforts to improve conditions. On the night between 3 and 4 December, we had a historic agreement between EU ministers on a new mobility package. It will now be implemented after approval by Parliament and the trilogue. Then we can get international rules but also Swedish rules that create the right conditions for a fair haulage industry. Not least with the industry's own commitment to fair transport, I am very optimistic about improving opportunities in the transport sector.
i-8753b306d031d54f-85	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It feels great that we finally get new rules in place. But how does the Government view the future? Are there more measures that we would need to strengthen the Swedish haulage industry but also social conditions for the workers who drive trucks? Madam President, I would like I would also like to say that we should invest in rail between Stockholm and Oslo.
i-8753b306d031d54f-87	Madam President, I would like I thank Denis Begic for the tip on rail. There are many who wish to do so. I can understand that – it's important – and we're making big rail investments in the future. The fact that we have reached an agreement at European level is very important. It will be implemented. It will be able to ensure that we do not have unfair wage competition without the right conditions in the labour market. But Sweden, like other EU countries, must also do the homework of fines, controls and cabotage. There we increase our efforts, which is incredibly important, together with the industry that now delivers fair transport. It will provide good opportunities for a good haulage industry in the future.
i-8753b306d031d54f-90	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Tomas Eneroth. Recently, statistics on punctuality of trains were presented for 2018. For passenger trains, punctuality, i.e. the proportion of trains arriving at their final station was no later than five minutes after schedule, 87.8 per cent. The punctuality in 2018 was therefore worse than in the previous five years, when punctuality was over 90 per cent. Many travelers worry that trains do not go on time. According to a Sifo survey, 27 per cent of Swedes have at some point chosen the train as a means of transport for fear of delays. Even if you are to be aware that 96.2% of the trains departing in 2018 actually arrived at a maximum of 15 minutes late, the delays in trains are a major inconvenience and uncertainty for travellers.
i-FvH6UtwXULff9j5HdTBKhP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Berginger, for the question! Clearly, progress towards reduced punctuality in rail transport is not acceptable. Let us remember that there has been a dramatic increase in train travel. Both the Swedish people and Swedish companies want to travel a lot more trains. There has been a dramatic increase over the last 15 years that has not been met by corresponding investments in new investment in rail or railway maintenance. This is why we have presented a 700 billion investment in infrastructure, the largest railway investment in modern times, with major efforts to improve railway maintenance. This means that punctuality will be able to increase. But there will also be suspensions for a period ahead. It is therefore important that operators and the Finnish Transport Agency take their responsibility to inform passengers and ensure that they know in good time when they have the opportunity to arrive and what the alternative routes are. It will be a tough task in the future with the major investments being made, but what mirages is a better punctuality and increased confidence in rail transport.
i-8753b306d031d54f-98	Madam President, I would like I take a very positive view of the fact that the government has set aside the 700 billion. I also think it is very positive that there is such a strong demand for train travel. However, it is important that passengers receive good information in good time and that they are clear that in fact there are so many who are still on time. When compared to the flight, the train stands well.
i-8753b306d031d54f-99	Madam President, I would like That's absolutely true. Compared to many other modes of transport, the train has a high level of reliability. However, for those commuting on a daily basis, it is not acceptable to suffer recurring delays. That is why the issue of new main roads and new railways is incredibly important. It will also give commuter trains and freight trains better access. There will be big investments on rail in the future, so it is a light in sight.
i-8753b306d031d54f-101	Madam President, I would like In recent days we have been able to read in the media how animal rights activists threaten and harass Sweden's farmers and animal owners. Last year, the LRF's own survey showed that as many as four out of ten farmers were victims of crime. It's a frighteningly high figure. It is time to take this from the animal rights activists seriously. Crimes are often committed on farms where the victims live with their families, and they create a very high level of insecurity and vulnerability. Our Swedish farmers must be given the legal protection to which they are entitled. Otherwise, the state fails its part of the social contract. For several years, the Moderates have been pushing for the government to take action on this issue, but the problems remain. My question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson is therefore: what measures does the Minister of Justice intend to take to protect Sweden's farmers and animal owners from crimes committed by animal rights activists?
i-8753b306d031d54f-104	Madam President, I would like S if I said in a previous question answer meet the I LRF, L Antbrukarnas Riksförbund, in Sälen a couple of weeks ago in connection with a conference. D is we went over what possible measures we could take further. D a major one, I think, is the one that we are implementing when it comes to expanding the police force and devoting a great deal of resources, as we are doing now. The Swedish police have more employees now than ever before, and they also have more resources than ever before. It is important to indicate that these resources must be allocated to the whole country so that one can investigate and get to the bottom of the possible harassment and crimes committed against farmers, for example. I am firmly convinced that this is a form of crime that we must be prepared to give priority to and to fight. S if the trader must be able to conduct his business in peace without having to be exposed to that type of b rott. For this reason, I am prepared to take further action if necessary to strengthen the fight against such crime.
i-8753b306d031d54f-107	Madam President, I would like I take note of what the Minister of Justice says. For my part, I think it is absolutely crucial to look at the criminal protection of those who are victims of threats and vandalism and other types of criminality by animal rights activists but also to ensure that the police are present throughout the country. If Sweden is to be able to live there must be a police officer who comes when you call and who really succeeds in investigating the b root so that some individuals can be prosecuted. The question is: Will the Minister ensure that Sweden's farmers and livestock farmers receive the protection they need?
i-8753b306d031d54f-110	Madam President, I would like We will continue a dialogue, not least with the LRF, on what further action can be taken. I pointed out earlier how we have tightened the penalties, including for grossly illegal threats, and also tightened the view on illegal threats. We have increased the possibilities for camera surveillance so that one can subsequently see, for example, who is trespassing on your farm, should this be the case. There are certainly additional measures that we can take. I am determined to continue the dialogue and strengthen the fight for this.
i-8753b306d031d54f-113	Madam President, I would like Linde Government! Sport has long been an area which has not been addressed politically, as has been asked from many quarters. The sports movement attracts many children to the movement, which has effects on other areas, not least in education and public health. In the Drotts movement, many parents also engage with everything it means to make coffee or drive children to different sports. Unfortunately, we have recently heard about the problem of match fixing, and play e has also been prosecuted for the t a. In the Nordic countries we have since last autumn an agreement between the Nordic sports federations that people who have been prosecuted e for match fixing one country cannot play in another. What other suggestions are there in this area at the Nordic level? Do you want it to go away? What other agreements can we expect on the Nordic level in this area?
i-MnDrNVbuh3PTDMW6qbUr7x	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Angelika Bengtsson! M atchfixing is a big problem that so much needs to take so seriously. Unfortunately, I have to admit, just like Minister Ekström, that I have not yet had time to familiarise myself with the Nordic issues relating to match fixing three days into my new area of responsibility. As the honourable Member raises the question, I can assure you that I will ask my officials to raise just the eight and also to see what proposals are coming so that we can deal with it. I agree with the honourable Member that this is an important issue in which society needs to get involved.
i-8753b306d031d54f-120	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I look forward to the forthcoming work in this area, because it is really needed. A little prevention that you can work with is always good. Then I also have to ask or give a tip on the Olympic issue, which is most relevant: is it about talking about organising a Nordic Olympics together, together? If not, it is a tip to give to the other Nordic ministers, to start talking about a joint Nordic Olympics.
i-8753b306d031d54f-123	Madam President, I would like Now I'm really out on slippery ice, but I know that Stockholm is looking for Winter Olympics. I do not believe that there are currently any plans to seek a joint Nordic Olympics. Now on Monday and Tuesday, I am going to Helsinki together with the Prime Minister and have discussions with Nordic ministers and others. And why not – perhaps this is something that can be addressed, if nothing else to ease the mood?
i-8753b306d031d54f-125	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Morgan Johansson a question. In the last week there have been commemorations for Fadime throughout the country, which were murdered in 2002. An important issue in this context is forced marriage. The Christian Democrats for several years have raised motions that we must have a special one, just like in the UK – a so-called forced marriage u rit. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there are any thoughts on this. Three years ago, we did not have a debate on the issue, and that was not the case. In ngenting has happened since they ss. Then there is a question of a special protection order, which also exists in England, where within 48 hours you must be able to show where the child is and show the child. Otherwise you can be arrested as a parent if you do not talk about where the child is. Can we have a unit against forced poison and such a special protection order in Sweden?
i-8753b306d031d54f-129	Madam President, I would like I'm really looking forward to us getting it. It is not entirely true that nothing has happened since we had an interpellation debate a few years ago. On the contrary, we have commissioned a special investigator, Mari Heidenborg, to look at how we can tighten criminal liability in respect of honour crimes as such, but also look specifically at the situation in the UK. There are both Forced Marriage Unit and Forced Marriage Protection orders, which provide stronger tools to better stop people being taken out of the country for example to be married away. These are proposals on which a report has been submitted, which we will now continue to work on. This is a very important point in the January agreement between the government parties and the Centre Party and the Liberals. This is one of the most important and priority areas that we will be working on during this parliamentary term.
i-8753b306d031d54f-132	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is good if we in the Christian Democrats can push the government forward for us on these issues and that something is now beginning to happen. It often says that you want to do a lot, but it is urgent. The question is what resources have been set aside. For example, in our previous budget, we have added 10 million to enable NOA, for example, to start working concretely on the issues and put together an agency's collaboration work. W i wonder: N are we allowed to see any resources? Will you allocate funds to such an activity and, if so, when?
i-8753b306d031d54f-136	Madam President, I would like As I said, this is part of the January agreement between the government parties and the Center Party and the Liberals. This is one of our most prioritised issues and will also be when we discuss the budget in the future. I imagine that we will be able to put forward proposals on both the enforcement of penalties for those who commit crimes of honour and on specific criminal harassment, on which we need a further investigation, and finally also to provide even more resources to the law enforcement authorities, who, in themselves, already have more money than ever before. Increased commitment means that you also need to be prepared to invest more money.
i-8753b306d031d54f-139	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Tomas. Recently, the Islamic terror dictatorship of Iran has escalated the aggression against the Middle East's only democracy Israel. The other day Iran carried out an attack, an attack, with the approval of the Syrian regime against an Israeli ski resort. The Prime Minister has promised to improve relations with Israel. The 73-point programme and the government declaration talk about working for democracy and against extremism. Therefore, my question is why the government has not condemned the Iranian attacks and why it has not condemned the statement made by the Iranian Air Force Commander that it is prepared for a determined war to destroy Israel.
i-8753b306d031d54f-142	Madam President, I would like I thank Joar Forssell for the question. This is, of course, an extremely worrying development that we have seen for a long time between Iran and Israel. I took note of Mrs Wallström's statement as Foreign Minister during the last parliamentary term. She pointed to the increased tension and the risks it entails. I imagine that the issue has also been the subject of discussion, not least in the context of the Security Council commitment that we have had from the Swedish side. I have no comment today on the current developments. I know that this is a work in which both the European Union and the UN are keen to reduce the levels of conflict. Of course, I will refer the comments in future to Foreign Minister Wallström in this part.
i-8753b306d031d54f-144	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for this. When the highest air force commander of a terrorist regime says that it is preparing for a determined war to destroy a democracy, it is very strange that a government that speaks in big words about democracy and with big words against extremism does not want to make any comments. Surely the government, regardless of what the Foreign Minister has said in the past and regardless of what has been said in general terms about democracy in the UN and the EU, could say that it condemns this kind of statement on attacks by Iran against the only democracy in the Middle East?
i-8753b306d031d54f-145	Madam President, I would like I thank Joar Forssell for this. No one should hesitate about the commitment of this government to human rights or to stand up for the rights of democracies. Rather, I think we should note that we have been a government for three days and that, in this case, as Minister of Infrastructure and spokesperson for the Government as a whole, I choose to leave this matter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I hope that Joar Forssell can have a good dialogue and get good answers and a good commitment from our Foreign Minister.
i-8753b306d031d54f-146	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Trade Ann Linde. Trade is incredibly important for Sweden. 1.4 million Swedes can go to work every day thanks to our exports. We have had very worrying signals about the Cuban aluminium smelting plant in Sundsvall, where almost 500 people are working, who were in danger of shutting down their entire business because of the US sanction list because the company has a Russian ownership. If I've understood it correctly, things have worked out. But I would like to hear from the Government how the situation is and what measures the Swedish Government has taken to save these nearly 500 jobs in Sundsvall.
i-8753b306d031d54f-148	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Eriksson for the question. This is an extremely important issue. It is about the increasing number of sanctions having consequences that are not intended to affect third parties. These are sanctions imposed by the United States against a Russian oligarch and his company. As one of these companies owns Cuba in Sundsvall with almost 500 employees and a total of 2 000 employees involved, it has a consequence that was not intended. As soon as we found out about this, we wrote letters to the American administration. They replied immediately that it was not supposed to happen to Swedish hardworking workers, as they said. We then tried to convince the Americans that we are in favour of sanctions against Russia but that we are not in favour of them hitting workers in Cuba in Sundsvall. One might find a way to reduce, for example, the ownership of this oligarch in the owner company. Madam President, I would like I will continue in my next speech.
i-8753b306d031d54f-151	Madam President, I would like We have not heard the end yet, but I would like to know what the situation is today and whether there are more measures than this letter that the government has taken. And are there other cases that we need to be concerned about in the near future?
i-8753b306d031d54f-152	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Eriksson for this. It has gone well – so father. We made a whole series of efforts. I went to the United States and talked to the Treasury and the State Department. Magdalena Andersson spoke to the Minister for Finance, Mikael Damberg wrote letters to his counterparts and now it has been delisted, as it is called. So right now it's okay. But if one fails to behave, sanctions can be reintroduced again. This is a very important issue.
i-8753b306d031d54f-154	Madam President, I would like The government, Ann Linde, could have stayed in the speaker's seat, because I am addressing her. First of all, in the presence of Ängelholmssonen Morgan Johansson, let me welcome Ann Linde in her new role as Minister for Trade and also responsible for Nordic cooperation. Then it's good to talk to a wholesingborger who still understands a little bit of what it looks like in the world. I will raise an issue that has been inflamed for some time in the Nordic cooperation and related to the location of the European Medicines Agency EMA. As happened to be the responsibility of Minister of State Ann Linde at the time, as Europaminister of European Affairs, for this matter. The Danes were devastated by Swedish action. They perceived themselves as betrayed by Sweden. They are trying to coordinate this type of initiative. When there is to be greater establishment, such as this Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, one must think a little bigger. If it had ended up in Copenhagen it would have been of benefit and benefit also for Skåne, because there is an intimacy between Skåne and Denmark. That is why my question to the Nordic Minister for Cooperation is: will we try to coordinate this type of government establishment better than has happened in the past?
i-8753b306d031d54f-158	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wallmark for the question, the congratulations and, in particular, the fine words about shows; it is appreciated. When the European Medicines Agency (EMA) was to be relocated from the UK to another EU country, the Nordic countries agreed from the outset, before launching the campaigns, that each country should drive on its own. The Nordic countries would not have a common Nordic candidacy, but each country would drive itself. Then we tried to have campaigns as best we could, and we had a great deal of commitment in Sweden – in Stockholm and Uppsala, which was our proposal where it should be. Unfortunately, we didn't get there. We note that Denmark did not vote for us in the first round. But no one knows how we voted then, because we chose to keep it a secret for reasons of foreign secrecy.
i-8753b306d031d54f-161	Madam President, I would like I can understand that you want to drive yourself, as the Government says, in the first round. At the time there were Stockholm and Uppsala, but then there was also Copenhagen. But when Stockholm and Uppsala disappeared, I think it would be quite natural and basically an instinct for us northerners to stop behind someone else. In the choice between Milan and Copenhagen – in the choice between jobs and knowledge coming to Italy or to the Öresund region – the choice is very simple for me. I hope that the Nordic Minister for Cooperation has a different attitude from that of the former Minister responsible for Europe.
i-8753b306d031d54f-162	Madam President, I would like It is the Danes who have said that we have voted for Italy. But they have no idea who we voted for and whether we voted for them. It took six additional countries to vote for Denmark to come up again. They say, then, that we did not vote for them, but even if we had added one more vote, they would not have come up at all. I think the question is somewhat irresponsible when it is said that this would have been due to Sweden, because that is not true.
i-8753b306d031d54f-165	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Education. It is about how the Minister intends to take on board and look at the current competi tion investigation, which highlights that there should be post-secondary education for special school pupils. This is incredibly important for this group. They need good training to be able to get a good job, to be able to leave home and to support themselves and not depend on their parents, as many actually are. It is simply a matter of being able to cope with adult life on your own. One question in this context might be: is there any idea of funding for the training coordinator? How does the Minister intend to address this question?
i-8753b306d031d54f-168	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander, for a question that is really important! Sometimes you become a little sad as a minister when you get announcements from the Riksdag. But when I was quite new as a high school and knowledge lift minister, I received an announcement from the Riksdag that really warmed my heart. I would like to mention those who were behind this announcement. It was Per Lodenius from the Center Party, Christina Örnebjär, who was then a member of the parliament of the Liberals, and Caroline Helmersson Olsson from the Social Democrats, who tore as animals for the Riksdag to stand up for these students. Today, this group is not in a position to apply for a university of applied sciences, folk high school or higher education. The notice resulted in the Komvux investigation receiving additional directives that it has now delivered. The proposals made by the investigation are now under preparation in the Government Office, so I cannot say anything about what they will lead to. However, I can say that the issue is extremely urgent.
i-8753b306d031d54f-171	Madam President, I would like This is very important – it's true – and I'm proud that Per Lodenius is running the questions. He's incredibly good at it. One might wonder how those with these intellectual disabilities can finance their post-secondary education. It is an important part of the investigation that we must take into account. This group is not allowed to retain the activity compensation, nor are they allowed to receive studies that are reasonable on the basis of their ability to study for a longer period of time.
i-8753b306d031d54f-173	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that we will continue to follow from the Government Office. The issue of funding is, of course, important, but at least as important is the fact that there are now proposals on access to higher education. In a labour market where it is becoming increasingly important and necessary for there to be some form of education and training to be able to take on the vacancies that exist – and there are many – the issue is really urgent. I should like to thank Mr Zander for this question and the Members of Parliament mentioned for the commitment that has led us to stand here and discuss solutions.
i-8753b306d031d54f-177	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Tomas Eneroth. During a debate in the election movement between Prime Minister Löfven and Jimmie Åkesson, the Prime Minister argued that with the Swedish Democrats' proposal to increase the exceptions in LAS from two to five in companies with up to ten employees, the risk of sexual harassment and rape would increase in our workplaces. He also said that the Swedish Democrats were a purely anti-labour party for this very reason. Madam President, I would like The statement got a lot of publicity. Many simply wondered how the government thought when it came to this conclusion, when all the expertise has arrived at quite different reasons for the increase in sexual violence. My question to the Government is: Is this still the government's position on the increase in sexual violence when we are now negotiating with the Centre Party and the Liberals to loosen labour law for Swedish employees?
i-8753b306d031d54f-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Magnus Persson! The question of how we modernise labour law has been discussed for a long time. In Sweden, we have a system in which we strive as far as possible for a system in which the social partners are the ones to deal with the changes. How, then, does one speed up such work? We have agreed within the framework of the agreement on the basis of which we now have a government in place that we will set up an investigation that, with the maintenance of the balance between the parties, will study both the rotation rules and measures for the transition and the development of skills in the labour market. The investigation will also work on proposals relating to the security of employment in different forms of employment and in this way come up with proposals that can be implemented in the Swedish parliament, unless the parties during this time come up with other common solutions. In that case, the proposals of the Parties shall be capable of becoming new legislation. I think this is the right order to work with. I also believe that this is a way of increasing the chances of finding a broad agreement, not least between the parties. Then we will get order and find out about the Swedish labour market and long-term conditions. That is what we are seeking.
i-8753b306d031d54f-183	Madam President, I would like Does the government still believe that it is anti-labour policy to make exceptions in LAS, which the government drove the entire electoral movement in debate after debate? It is enough to answer yes or no to the question.
i-8753b306d031d54f-184	Madam President, I would like What the Social Democrats think and think about the issue of labour law, I think, is well known. It is also well known what we stand up for in government to ensure that we can have a modernisation of labour law: it is about being able to ensure that the parties have the opportunity to agree and otherwise go forward with legislation. It is important that we now seize this opportunity with the commitment that exists both politically and between the social partners and get the modernisation that creates long-term stable conditions in the Swedish labour market. I think that not least these days, everyone thinks it would be a good development, so that we do not have a development with unclear rules on what applies to the labour market. We all benefit from this.
i-8753b306d031d54f-186	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, and I begin by congratulating him on the renewed confidence as Minister of Justice. I noted in the government declaration that the government intends to criminalise participation in terrorist organisations. During the last term of office, the Minister of Justice instructed Stefan Johansson to look at the issue. Without participants, no terrorist organisation, the Justice Council states. And without organisation a considerably more limited capacity to commit terrorist offences or other particularly serious crime. The question to the Government is: what is the timetable for us to be able to criminalise participation in terrorist organisations?
i-8753b306d031d54f-189	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to say that the timetable is good. This will probably be one of the very first proposals that the government will be able to make, in any case when it comes to legislative referral. The content, as Joakim Sandell says, is that we want to criminalise all participation in and involvement with a terrorist organisation. It is a long-awaited piece of legislation, and we are in practice done with it when it comes to preparation. I can see that in a few weeks' time we will be able to leave this to the Legislative Council and that a bill will come in the spring. In addition, this should be anchored in the Riksdag, because this is an outflow of the cross-block agreement that we made during the last parliamentary term. This is part of a package of anti-terrorism legislation. It is about the crime of participation, about more of signal scanning, about data storage and about secret data reading. There are now a number of proposals that will enable us to strengthen the fight against terrorism.
i-6iAhiYz3v13ffFqUA6VmnF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! It is extremely important that we can achieve harmonised legislation in this area so that we have legislation similar to that of the other EU countries and neighbouring countries. But I also think that we must ensure that the police are given the tools to prosecute these criminals.
i-8753b306d031d54f-194	Madam President, I would like In addition to a widening of the criminalised area itself, which means that all involvement and participation in a terrorist organisation is criminalised, this also means greater opportunities for what we call secret coercive measures, for example, secret renunciation of those whom we suspect for this type of crime. This means that there will be substantially greater opportunities to detect, roll up and map any terrorist networks that may exist. Here too, therefore, is a very important piece of legislation that we are now taking forward.
i-8753b306d031d54f-195	Madam President, I would like Together with our road network, the railway is the backbone of the Swedish transport system. Every day, hundreds of thousands of people and businesses depend on efficient and efficient transport. In order for more people to choose the train and thus reduce emissions, we need to be able to trust that the trains will arrive on time. It is therefore very worrying that the delays on the railways increased sharply last year. It strikes against jobs and competitiveness throughout Sweden.
i-8753b306d031d54f-197	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Westergren, for the commitment to punctuality – I really appreciate that! What we have succeeded in, if I start there, is above all to have the opportunity, during the previous parliamentary term and now sanctioned, to make 700 billion in investment in our infrastructure. After years of underinvestment in the Swedish railway system and in the Swedish road network, there are now huge investments on the rail system, road maintenance and railway maintenance. This will lead to substantial improvements, but it will not be enough. We will also have to invest in new main routes and, above all, make demands on operators and the Finnish Transport Agency to coordinate better and, above all, to inform travellers. Much remains to be done, but I am very proud that we have now actually been able to prioritise major investments after years of underinvestment, as it was before. In this sense, I believe that we will succeed in increasing punctuality but also in ensuring that we can continue to develop rail traffic so that there will be more routes throughout the country.
i-8753b306d031d54f-201	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. Sweden has come a long way and is often recognised for its work on road safety. Particular attention is paid to zero vision work. The decision on it was decisive and important when it was taken over 20 years ago. After many years of decline, 2018 looks like this in the rearview mirror to have been a dark year regarding the number of fatalities in traffic. Sweden must therefore continue to be at the forefront and work actively to combat the number of fatalities in traffic. Therefore, the new initiatives taken during the last parliamentary term to improve road safety and reduce the number of injured and killed are important. I am thinking in particular of the re-launch of the zero vision. I would therefore like to ask the Government how he sees the next step in further strengthening the work on zero vision on the basis of the relaunch that the Social Democratic-led government began during the last parliamentary term.
i-Nx6YmW6jVh2j5PH6aFUpaj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin Gustafsson, for the question! It is quite right that it is a worrying development that in the previous year we have had an increase in the number of people killed and injured in traffic – otherwise we have had a positive development for a long time. This is because Sweden is the world leader in working with road safety but also because we have a automotive industry that is the world leader in developing safe vehicles. Work must continue to design the traffic environments so that vulnerable road users are not harmed and to use new technologies and digitalisation for safe traffic environments. By 2020, Sweden will host the UN's major road safety conference. The whole world comes to Sweden to learn from the Swedish experience. Now it is important to implement new technology – geofencing, i.e. digital fences, and self-driving, connected vehicles – to ensure that fewer are injured and killed in traffic. There is a great deal left to be done here, but it is a very positive development that we will see in the coming years in terms of road safety.
i-8753b306d031d54f-207	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. Nearly 12 000 young people have applied for a residence permit after the new High School Act came into force on 1 July 2018. It was legislation driven by Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Left Party. So far, 5 200 young people have received approval and 2 400 have been rejected. Many are still waiting to hear whether or not to stay. The Upper Secondary Education Act would give young people the chance to complete their upper secondary education. In the municipalities of the country, however, there has been uncertainty as to who is responsible for housing for these young people. In Nerikes Allehanda you could last Saturday read about Ozer, a guy who goes to high school but who for a month lived in the culvert at the central station. He has nowhere else to live. He's one of several people who actually doesn't have a place to live. Who, in the view of the Minister, is responsible for the provision of housing for these young people? And does the Minister think that this is a study situation that makes it possible to take advantage of their upper secondary education?
i-8753b306d031d54f-211	Madam President, I would like The upper secondary school we have in Sweden should be available for the students who are here. Some of the students who now attend Swedish upper secondary school are students who have come to Sweden as an unaccompanied minor and who in some cases have a very uncertain situation regarding their own future. The government has ensured that there are good opportunities to receive special grants for those upper secondary schools working specifically with the youth groups mentioned by the questioner in his question. But housing policy is an area on which I find it very difficult to answer questions. However, I can assure you that there is a very large and very responsible work going on at Sweden's upper secondary schools to ensure that the young people who attend upper secondary school receive the support they need. Many teachers, many in the student health staff and many principals do a fantastic job for students who are in a very vulnerable situation. On the other hand, when it comes to issues relating to how housing policy is to be handled, I can actually refer them to a colleague in the government. Thank you for the question.
i-8753b306d031d54f-214	Madam President, I would like More than one in three women between the ages of 20 and 24 report that she has been the victim of sexual crimes in the past year. Nearly one in ten reports that she has been subjected to rape or attempted rape — in a year. In five years, young women's exposure to sexual offences has increased by 370 per cent. The Crime Prevention Council's security survey is based on a random sample, and no metoo effect or increased propensity to report has been measured. Brå rather believes that crime is underestimated. In the meantime, young women's lives are limited. Four out of ten report that they have chosen a different route or way of travel when they have made their way home in order not to be subjected to crime. My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. When will young women dare to go home by themselves at night without having to be afraid of being subjected to crime?
i-8753b306d031d54f-217	Madam President, I would like One of the major reforms that we carried out in the last parliamentary term was a tightening up of the view on sexual crimes. We now have consent legislation in place, we tightened the penalties for the gross rapes and we are about to go forward with further tightening up if necessary. Unfortunately, the Moderates opposed the law of consent for many, many years until the end of the day, which was a good thing. Now we have the strongest and hardest legislation regarding sexual offences ever in Sweden. We have also said that the police must continue to give priority to these cases in order to ensure that the number of investigations carried out is increased. We follow this month by month and see that the number of investigations actually carried out is actually increasing. Then I think that this must be combined with very extensive preventive measures, and there too we must work much more intensively than we have done in the past.
i-8753b306d031d54f-221	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Trade Ann Linde. On Monday, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven appointed you Minister for Foreign Trade and Minister for Nordic Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now that you have been given responsibility for Nordic cooperation, I would like to ask you: What are your priorities in this work? And how can the Swedish government continue to contribute to strengthening the Nordic region's position as one of the world's most innovative and competitive regions?
i-8753b306d031d54f-223	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the question. Nordic issues are indeed a priority. I think it is incredibly fun and have worked with it for many years in party contexts. It is primarily in three areas that we can strengthen and prioritise Nordic cooperation. The first concerns digitalisation, which is about innovations, which Mrs Jamal-El-Haj mentioned. We hope that the entire Nordic region will become the first integrated 5G zone in the world. The Nordic prime ministers have taken care of it. But we have not begun to look at how it should be implemented. I believe in it a lot. The second is to continue cross-border work. People really appreciate being able to work, study and settle in the respective Nordic countries without any problems. The third is cooperation with the Baltic countries, for example, that e-ID should work everywhere in all countries. There were three examples.
i-8753b306d031d54f-227	Madam President, I would like Last year, the number of reported rapes increased by 8%. During Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson's time in the government, the number of reported rapes has increased by 1,134 reports, and the exposure to sexual crimes has skyrocketed. Behind every figure in the statistics is a victim, who is usually a woman. When both the reports and the vulnerability increase in parallel, in addition for several years, there is a great risk that we are dealing with an actual increase in the number of sexual offences. It is clear that gender equality has gone the wrong way under the leadership of the feminist government. Sexual abuse is one of the worst things a person can be exposed to. One of the Moderates' gender equality proposals is therefore to abolish the unfair amount discount for serial rapists. My question to the Minister for Justice of the Feminist Government is therefore: Will he change today's quantity rebate during the next term of office?
i-8753b306d031d54f-231	Madam President, I would like As I said in a previous answer, we have for six months been in place the strictest and hardest sex crime legislation that Sweden has ever had. We have consent legislation, increased penalties for the serious rapes and also increased support for the victims by now getting a plaintiff from reporting the crime. In the past, they did not get it the same way. It has also strengthened the situation of the victim. Unfortunately, for many years before we finally managed to get it in place, the Moderates just opposed consent law. As I follow the way the courts judge, I can see that this has already become important for the way in which this type of crime is viewed in a sharpening direction. I am prepared to move forward on the legislative side. At the next stage, we will also review the penalties for normal rape and tighten the minimum penalty there too, from two years in prison to three years in prison. It is one of the criminal law changes we are now working on.
i-8753b306d031d54f-235	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Anna Ekström. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome her as Minister of Education – congratulations! In the January agreement, which forms the basis for budgetary cooperation, paragraph 14 states that the possibilities for conversion should be strengthened and that the employer's chances of finding a workforce with the right training should be improved. The knowledge boost will be expanded. It also states that the possibilities for further education or re-training above the age range should be increased and that more generous conditions for this should be made possible within the study funding system. Having the opportunity to learn new things and to change the direction of getting a job, your own salary and thus increased freedom is perhaps the most important thing in a person's life. But people live where they live. How does the Minister intend to work for education to exist throughout the country? In order to succeed in all these training places, teachers are required. Teachers are in short supply. Many who train as teachers choose to work with other things. How does the Minister intend to ensure that the teachers stay in the job?
i-8753b306d031d54f-239	Madam President, I would like The question is almost impossible to answer in a short minute. But let me start by thanking you for the welcome and for the question. In the 73-point programme there is an investment in a continued knowledge lift. It's much-needed. It can be about investments in folk high school, vocational school and university of applied sciences, which can now be found throughout the country, thanks to its extensive expansion. It is also about investments in study associations and more places at the university. In this context, I would also like to point out the efforts made at the learning centres within the framework of education policy, but also within the framework of the living of the whole of Sweden. The Government is also working on the proposals that have been made for an investigation of remote and distance learning. We have also made great efforts to strengthen the teaching profession. I don't have time to list them all. I can only say that they need to be met by joint work across different party boundaries in order to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession. I hope that the young people sitting in the gallery here today can eventually see the joy and appeal of the teaching profession – Sweden's most important profession.
