i-JDALbHfer8J6ZqfR2qi94q	Mr President, I would like to We are here to debate the Constitutional Committee's report on the Government's budget proposal. The report is called the KU1 and deals with category 1 Kingdom government. Under this expenditure area, central government and several important authorities, state subsidies and missions are financed. The report also deals with 27 requests for exercise from the general exercise period. The Moderates refrain from taking part in the decision on appropriations and instead have a special opinion, but I would nevertheless like, Mr President, to present in this House some of the issues where we would have liked a different allocation of funds. As has been said, central government is being financed within this area of expenditure. We are dealing with constitutional issues that are largely characterised by broad cross-party unity. But, as I said, in this area too, there are differences in the priorities of the various parties. Over the years, for example, the Moderates have placed a great focus on prevention of violent extremism. Violent extremism is most present and must be countered wherever it appears. Only last week, another act of terror took place in London. A knife-armed man attacked innocent passersby. Two died and several were injured before brave citizens with great civil courage overpowered the terrorist with the means they managed to get their hands on. The offender was formerly convicted of terrorist crimes. But we in the Constitutional Committee are dealing with issues of extremism mainly from a time perspective before a crime has taken place, that is to say, preventive work. In recent years, the Moderates have presented a great many measures to prevent this type of extremism. Fortunately, in many cases, they have obtained approval, but there are still preventive measures to be taken which fall under the envelope 6:1 General elections and democracy. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates want a thorough survey to be made of which religions have received funding and whether foreign extreme interests have made the funds conditional in any way. In this connection, the framework for foreign funding of religious communities should be reviewed in order to prevent extremists from financing religious communities in Sweden. Freedom of religion is a characteristic of our Western democracies. At the same time, we take seriously the fact that Islamist extremism today receives financial support. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates also see a great need for an easily accessible and user-friendly information material for newcomers on human rights and freedoms, democracy, gender equality, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, honour-related violence and repression, genital mutilation and obligations and rights in Sweden. Anyone who comes to Sweden should not have to hesitate about what is expected of you and about what rights you have. Mr President, I would like to There needs to be regular follow-up of the county boards' work to prevent and combat honour-related violence and repression. In order to achieve better results, each county needs to identify municipalities that have gone further than others in their efforts to prevent and counteract honour-related violence and oppression and to build a structure for development work and exchange of experience. All these measures and many more are proposed within the existing financial framework. Unfortunately, we note that several of the Swedish religions have experienced an increased degree of threat, violence and harassment in recent years. In order to strengthen the security and security work of individual churches and communities, we Moderates want to add an additional SEK 20 million per year for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. As of 2019, this appropriation has been combined with another security-related contribution, which applies to the entire non-profit sector. The Moderates want to return to the system of earmarking the grant for the safety of the religions. We want to strengthen the protection of religions in order to secure the right to a safe practice of religion. We Moderates also want to strengthen Parliament's administrative appropriations by SEK 10 million per year for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. We have seen that the current government has repeatedly been late in returning to Parliament with necessary proposals and other requested measures. It has also shown an unwillingness to account for the expected effects of proposals in the budget proposal. For a review of the government's policies to be carried out, it is necessary to specify in the budget proposal what effects the policy is deemed to have on, among other things, annual labour, employment, unemployment and GDP. Not indicating the effects at all or indicating the effects in tables without figures is insufficient and undermines Parliament's and also the public's transparency. Mr President, I would like to When the government is late and does not fully report the expected effects, a greater responsibility falls to the Riksdag and also a greater workload in the form of preparation and scrutiny. The commission offices play an important role in examining the tasks and documents of the Government and in preparing proposals from the Riksdag. As long as the government does not meet the requirements of transparency and urgency, it will be necessary to provide additional resources to the Riksdag. The Swedish Parliament's parties need more opportunity to examine and analyse the Government's proposals and prepare their own proposals. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the Moderates allocate SEK 20 million annually for the years 2020 – 2022 to the allocation 5:1 County Administrative Boards, etc. to speed up the management of environmental inspections in agriculture. The Moderates also reduce a number of appropriations as a result of a 50% reduction in the price and wage conversion to finance other priority reforms in the budget exercise.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-21	Mr President, I would like to To some extent, this can be said to be the first proper budgetary debate of the term of office. Last year we debated a transitional budget. This year, with the advent of the January Agreement, we have seen the formulation of the Social Liberal bloc on the one hand and the Conservative bloc on the other. With this there is now a real government budget to deal with. The Swedish Democrats' budget should be understood as an overall solution and therefore cannot and should not be broken out in any part. We therefore have no reservation on the area of expenditure, but a specific opinion. The Swedish Democrats are a conservative party with a nationalist basic view. Our policy is therefore aimed at managing state resources in a prudent manner so that taxpayers get the most out of their tax money. In these times, when the media report that 80 per cent of Sweden's municipalities are forced to save their business, it is necessary to remind them that the state does not have much of its own money. Most of it comes from men and women who go to work every day and who strive, save and try to make ends meet. We are spending money on the members and parties of the Riksdag. Political parties should work to a greater extent to improve the efficiency of their own work. As far as the government is concerned, we note that the appropriation for the Government Office has steadily increased since the 2013-14 budget, although the long-term trend shows that the number of government affairs decided has more or less remained stable. Here we are doing some major reductions, and the government with the Government Office is therefore receiving reduced funding. Other areas where there is reason not only to review expenditure, but also the forms of funding are the media area. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of the increased support announced by the government to strengthen local journalism, and we are not opposed to the strengthening of the grant. However, locally-based journalism is best helped by finding new technical solutions and by the media working to adapt their supply to demand. Media support in its current form is out of time and needs to be changed. Operating aid should therefore be reduced in five years. However, this degression does not relate to distribution aid and to innovation and development aid or to support for local journalism. However, with the measures proposed by the Swedish Democrats in other areas, such as the reduction of sickness pay and the reduction of employers' contributions for small businesses and the now abolished tax on advertising in periodical publications, the conversion of smaller editorial offices in particular should be facilitated. Mr President, I would like to We redistribute funds to a number of areas, including the Living History Forum. It is a good and good thing that they have carried out efforts to strengthen the conditions for schools and others to be able to make remembrance trips to the Holocaust memorial sites. This year it is also 30 years since the Berlin Wall broke down and the second anti-human ideology of the 20th century perished in Europe, namely Communism. In a context of strengthening Swedish schoolchildren's poor knowledge of the atrocities of Communism and informing about the ultimate consequences of socialism, we are therefore allocating additional funds for school trips to memorial sites for the victims of Communism. The Swedish Democrats also strengthen other important areas of society such as the Swedish Agency for Animal Welfare, the Swedish Data Protection Authority and more. I shall now state what we consider to be the most important reform in the area of expenditure, namely the introduction of a system of neutral ballots. We want a system of neutral ballots in place as soon as possible, preferably for the 2022 elections. In the Election Authority's report, Experiences from the 2018 elections, the Agency concluded that the electoral system needs to be reviewed in its entirety with a view to a simplified, improved and less vulnerable system, in which the introduction of so-called neutral ballots and a system of printing of one ballot per person and election were specifically proposed. These are proposals that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for a long time, and we are funding this through the budget. In KU1 under the organisation of the Foreign Service we only have one reservation. The Israeli Parliament decided in 1949 that Jerusalem would be the capital of Israel. Today there is Parliament, the President, the Supreme Court and the Departments of Jerusalem. Against this background and not least because Israel is the only stable and legally secure democracy in the Middle East, Sweden should move its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-35	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation. It contains proposals from the general period of exercise relating to the external administration. In short, the proposals mean that we believe that the Consulate General in Jerusalem should be upgraded to become the Embassy of Sweden in Palestine and that the Embassy in Moscow should be tasked with monitoring politically motivated legal processes. Mr President, I would like to Last spring a letter came to parents at home in Mölndal. The message was quite clear: We can no longer afford substitute schools. If the staff gets sick, you need to come here and pick up your baby. That's what it looks like now, not just in Mölndal where I live. Four out of five municipalities will have to make cuts in their operations next year. It is about cuts everywhere in our welfare – in school, in care and in health care. Several different welfare uprisings have started. The reason is that my former colleagues in welfare have simply had enough. They no longer stand up for cuts and understaffing. They have had enough of stress and poor working conditions and of having far too few colleagues. Mr President, I would like to In recent decades inequality has increased in Sweden and in society. Relative poverty has doubled in less than ten years. At the same time, the economic elite in Sweden have improved. In this situation, the government is presenting a budget that primarily benefits rich men at the expense of welfare. People, such as the President and myself, with income of over SEK 60 000 a month, will have reduced tax as the military tax is removed next year. At the same time, welfare is in desperate need of more resources. The government will then put in place a budget that will instead increase the gaps in society and contribute to continued under-financing of welfare. Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party want a different society. We have other priorities. That is why we have put forward a draft budget which takes a holistic approach to the growing gaps. We are investing in general welfare and in reducing economic gaps. We give priority to the most economically vulnerable. We want Sweden to become once again the world's most equal country, and we finance this primarily through increased capital taxes and by raising taxes for the richest. Mr President, I would like to Some of those affected by the abolition of military taxes are here in the hall. We already have a high salary, and we will get an even more well-filled wallet after the turn of the year. It doesn't make sense. We believe that Members of Parliament's fees should be reduced and that any additional remuneration related to parliamentary work should be removed. It is not justifiable for Parliament's committees alone to be able to elect several new additional chairmen at a cost of over 5 million for this term of office, while the rest of our collective well-being is making cuts and savings. What does the Left Party want to invest in in this area of expenditure, perhaps someone is wondering. We want to see increased funding for our national minorities. In our budget, we have EUR 10 million more in funding for the Sameting as a first step in the introduction of the forthcoming consultation system but also in a real price and salary increase for the Sameting. The system of consultation imposes an obligation on the State to consult representatives of the Sami people on issues that may have particular significance for them. In order to achieve this in an equal and equivalent way, financial resources are also needed. However, I would like to point out that we in the Left Party do not believe that the Government's proposal for a consultation procedure meets the requirements of international law for Sweden. We also maintain the important effort on Roma inclusion that has been going on for the last seven years. During these years, good work has been done to increase knowledge, strengthen Roma civil society and support the empowerment of the national minority Roma. Rome's living conditions today are usually worse than for the rest of the population, and a great deal of work remains to be done. We do not therefore believe that this work should be phased out, as it now stands in the budget, but rather we believe that the effort and the work should take place in a more permanent form. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned earlier the letter that came to the parents of young children at home. We in the Left Party want another society, a society without a letter of savings. We want an equal society, for a Sweden that stays together.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-46	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. Today we are debating the state budget report that all committees are going through. The Christian Democrats' draft budget should not be seen as being against the budgets of others, but as what we want to highlight. There was much good in what was mentioned earlier. We heard the Moderates mention, for example, the fight against terrorism, and just now the situation of the Roma was mentioned and combating discrimination against them. There are many other things that we could also mention, but what the Christian Democrats want to highlight is to create the conditions for a society with good economic growth and a business climate that is strong in increasingly fierce global competition. It should be a well-functioning economic policy that gives us the resources to invest in welfare, such as good care, care and a good school – current these days. With thought-out reforms for the labour market and fiscal policy, we want, and can, improve people's chances of leaving unemployment and exclusion. Economic policy should also strengthen families and civil society. It is the foundation of a community built on community and where people know trust in each other. The Christian Democrats put prosperity and security ahead of other things. We want to implement reforms that strengthen the community, and that is what Sweden needs now. It is together that we can make a good country even better. Well! As the majority of Parliament in the first stage of the budgetary process has given a different direction to budgetary policy than I would have liked, I am therefore abstaining from a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 1. The Christian Democrats' budgetary options should be seen as a coherent package in which no part or part can be broken out and treated in isolation. In addition, the Christian Democrats' proposal for appropriations under Category 1 is in fact above the framework that will be decided by the Riksdag. The collective proposals of the Christian Democrats regarding the state budget are contained in our party motion. This exercise also includes a proposal for a framework for Category 1. The Christian Democrats' budget option for Category 1 means that the expenditure is 174 1⁄2 million SEK higher than the government's proposal. I therefore believe that the appropriation 5:1 for the county administrative boards, etc. Overall, should be increased by SEK 177.5 million in relation to the Government's proposal for 2020. In order to improve integration, I believe that there should be a requirement for asylum seekers to participate in 15 hours of language training and 9 hours of social orientation. The County Administrative Board should coordinate these efforts. For this purpose, we will increase the grant by SEK 200 million for 2020. Furthermore, the county administrative boards' work on animal issues can be managed with previously allocated funds. Operations in waste statistics and cross-border transport can be managed with an increase of SEK 2 million. When it comes to the grant 6:3 The Swedish Data Protection Authority has been provided with funds for the Agency's work with the EU Data Protection Regulation as of 2018. I believe that this work can be done with a small increase in funding. At the same time, the grant should be added an additional SEK 2 million in order to better meet the challenges that exist, such as countering online hatred and privacy restrictions. The total appropriation should therefore be reduced by SEK 3 million. So far the budget. There are 27 motions attached to the report. One of them is the Christian Democrats about Jerusalem's place as the capital of Israel. Jerusalem is actually the capital of Israel. The Israeli Parliament, the Government Office, the residence of the Head of State, central authorities and the Supreme Court have long been located in Jerusalem. They fortify the status of the capital. From a historical perspective, Jerusalem has never been the capital of any other country than Israel and never of any other people than the Jewish people. The Jewish connection to Jerusalem dates back 3,000 years. Against this background, it is my view, and the Christian Democrats, that the Swedish Embassy should be moved at the appropriate time from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Such a decision would send a clear signal to the parties in a possible future peace process that Sweden is serious when we argue for a just peace for all. At the same time, Sweden should work towards a common Nordic embassy area in Jerusalem. Such cooperation can show the benefits that exist when neighbors live in unity and work together. Let me say a few words about freedom of religion. In many countries freedom of religion is not respected; not least, we know that Christians are oppressed and persecuted. I therefore believe that it should be examined whether a special ambassador should be given the task of promoting respect for freedom of religion. Such an ambassador can, for example, make demands when trade agreements are concluded and condemn regimes that oppress religious minorities. Furthermore, I believe that all diplomats should have completed an education on issues relating to freedom of religion.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-58	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating category 1 Kingdom government. Maybe it doesn't sound very exciting. However, it sounds more interesting with school, health care, care, defence, police, justice and aid, and most people probably understand more what the content of debates on these subjects is all about. Yet it is no coincidence that the title is Category 1. Without the content of Category 1, the second is ungoverned. Therefore, it is central for the state of Sweden that Category 1 is well thought out and well managed. There is a need for a parliament that represents the voters. There is a need for a government that governs the kingdom and implements the Riksdag's decisions. Sweden must be represented externally, the Head of State manages representative commitments, the rule of law is controlled via the JO and the media exist throughout the country for democracy to work. Our country also has specific commitments for our national minorities, such as the indigenous Sami. The Finns and the Tore Valleys have been in Sweden since the kingdom was founded a thousand years ago. Romes came in the 16th century and Jews in the 18th century. They are an obvious part of the fabric that is Sweden, and they make the country richer. Their languages, cultures and identities must be protected for Sweden to be Sweden. All this costs money. And that is Category 1. We agree on a lot, just as Karin Enström said, so I will dive only into a few isolated areas where we disagree. The Moderates, who are in opposition, want to pull down on the Government Office. Is that a coincidence? I do not remember Karin Enström and Ulf Kristersson eager for reductions at the Government Office when they were in the government. Perhaps it is tied to the situation in which you find yourself. I do not know if, on the other hand, I saw so many proposals to strengthen Parliament's own investigative capacity between 2006 and 2014, but I think this is rather a frustration that one stands and kicks in the booth. Then you want more money for yourself and less money for the government. However, it is of course happy to complain about the government when it does not deliver the data that is requested. They probably get better with less resources – it seems obvious! The most remarkable thing in the Moderate budget is a petitess. Why do the Moderates want to cut back on the National Audit? That's a real question. It's not big money, but it seems a little unnecessary in a situation when we know that the National Audit Office has problems. More money will be spent on the move, and I think the Swedish National Audit Office is making an important contribution to the wise use of the state's money and resources. The Swedish Democrats want to give more money to the king and less to the government. There is little less money for the government, namely 450 million, almost half a billion. I wonder how much realism there is in that proposal. That sounds pretty good in the debate, but politics is not just a matter of sounding up, but it should also be realistic. A remarkable proposal in the Swedish Democrats' budget is the cut of SEK 102 million on pre-support. I share the view of the Swedish Democrats that the modernisation of pre-financing is needed. I sit on the Media Support Board, and we see the rapid restructuring and breakdown of traditional business models for Swedish local media. It's a big problem. But forcing it with a slaughter on resources now would lead to a severe deterioration of the local medium. I believe that it is a central part of Swedish democracy that we as politicians are being audited and re-debated, and I do not think that we should cut the financial resources to that. With regard to the revision of the electoral system mentioned, one can probably do so, but perhaps it would not be appropriate for my party to put forward a clear idea of what it should look like in this House. I am more conservative than the nationalist Conservative Party of Sweden Democrats. I like the old system of notes that can be checked, a system that people recognise from election to election. You can change that, but I think the changes will be slow and gentle. You have to be careful of what works. I support the proposal.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-68	Mr President, I would like to The debates of the Constitutional Committee are not usually characterized by many lines, but I felt that Hans Ekström was actually fishing with the big net this morning. I don't really know what happened last night. But I'm thinking there's a need for some answers on the subject. There are examples of Hans Ekström's party requesting reductions in the Government Office once the situation has been reversed, which did not end so well. On the other hand, and this is more serious, we have the part where we have proposed an increase in funding for Parliament's administration precisely so that Parliament can gain something more muscle. This is about SEK 10 million a year, so it's not about building a giant investigation service. In order not least for our own committee and the other committees in the Riksdag to be able to carry out the important control and audit task that we have, it is important that there is competence here in Parliament as well. It's always important. We have seen that the government has been late and has not fully described what is before it as the consequences of what is being proposed. The latter is important for us to then be able to compare how the proposals are supposed to fall out and how they turned out in reality. I therefore believe that an increase would be an advantage for everyone, whether in government or in opposition. On this point, I do not think you need to be so acidic, but it is about giving Parliament a little more muscle. When it comes to the Swedish National Audit Office, it is about the Moderates proposing a general reduction. So we want to reduce the price and salary conversion. It's supposed to be reduced by 50%. I can come back in the next line about why we do it. It has effects on all authorities; it is true.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-73	Mr President, I would like to I can sympathise with the view that Parliament's investigative resources may need to be strengthened in a difficult parliamentary situation. It is perhaps more tied to it – a difficult parliamentary situation can make the Riksdag need more muscle. But I think there is one thing that we should discuss together and, if so, have a dialogue on. I do not think it benefits from reducing the resources of the Government Office at this stage. There is certainly a need for sound basis for the proposals that are being put forward, and I do not believe that these are being done with weaker resources. As far as the general price and wage index is concerned, I myself have once been involved in making budgets as local councillors. That method is a good one, but if you count on it in ten years, you can see that if you go on like that, there will be big cuts. You shouldn't think it's a general efficiency measure. It is a way for politicians to avoid making unpleasant decisions and leave it to the authorities to make the difficult cuts. Then I think it's better to say that this business is being pulled down in those situations. I think that attention should also be paid to some of which we do not think about very often. We say that the Riksdag is large with its 349 members. When the present Parliament was established, Sweden had 8 million inhabitants. Now we have almost 10 1⁄2 million. In relative terms, resource consumption is actually less. Sweden is growing by about one per cent per year, and it must be visible in the state administration.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-76	Mr President, I would like to I take note of Hans Ekström's introduction to the line shift. He said that it is worth continuing to discuss what the distribution should be like, not least in terms of investigative resources. If we can reach agreement there in the future, I think that would be a good thing, precisely because today this may be more difficult to predict and because we have received a basis late – it may be because of the parliamentary situation or other – and the consequences have not been sufficiently well described. Let us continue to discuss it. The reduction we have proposed in general throughout the entire budget is in order to press further for efficiency and coordination. It is a difficult challenge; I agree. I do not take it lightly to make such a general reduction, but that is the model we have chosen in this budget. It cannot be implemented every year for a hundred years, I do not think so either, but of course this must be done with follow-up.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-78	Mr President, I would like to It paints against Christmas, although the greyish capital of the Kingdom of Sweden unfortunately conveys anything but Christmas feeling and winter white magic. But it's home in Norrbotten, so it'll be all right with that – you're all very welcome to Tornedalen and the Arctic Circle. What do we do now in the December wet and the compact darkness? Yeah, let's light candles. We live in waiting times, and many small and large are waiting for Christmas holidays. For many of us, a certain television show at a certain time on Christmas Eve is a great highlight. I have allowed myself to be inspired by an annual feature of this program ahead of today's debate on category 1 Kingdom government. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me travel Cinderella! Well, what is a budget debate in the Constitutional Committee? It can be boring and boring and just... absolutely wonderful. The EUR 15 billion we are dealing with in Category 1 is a prerequisite. They're a foundation, a bottom plate, for everything else. The Center Party supports the budget proposal, and I support the committee's proposal in the report as a whole. For the Center Party, the budget bill is on two horizontal themes, which this term in general for Swedish politics should be about. The first is that we must defend Sweden. The second is that we must renew Sweden. In the budget that is now being debated and on which we will decide, we are taking important steps to meet the core tasks of the state. The defence of Sweden is about strengthening the functions that we expect Sweden to be able to deliver. It is about defence, a strong chain of justice and a functioning welfare for all. The defence of Sweden begins here. It begins in Category 1 Kingdom government. It begins in the Constitutional Committee. It begins in the Swedish Parliament, in the defence of our fundamental rights and in the defence of our constitutions. Yesterday I met Lily and Louis from Momentum, our Hungarian sibling party. They daily offer opposition to Viktor Orbán's regime. When Orbán shut down the Central European University, Momentum and thousands of people in Budapest went out on the streets in peaceful popular protests. In Europe, democratically elected governments are threatening and violating not only academic freedom but also freedom of the press, media freedom. And we are hearing suggestions here today, in the Swedish Parliament, which is moving in the direction of Orbán. When the Hungarian Constitution was amended in the run-up to the 2014 elections to make the opposition more difficult, the debate on this in the Hungarian Parliament went on for less than an hour. Then it was a fact: the Constitution was changed. In Poland judges are forced to retire, and more government-friendly judges are installed. This is, of course, the case for reflection in Sweden as well. The values of liberal democracy are being dismantled in our European neighbours. Where are we? What are we doing in Sweden? Mr President, I would like to Defending Sweden is about defending the modern as well as the historical and multi-religious, multicultural Sweden that many of us love. It is about equipping our constitutions and our institutions, which guarantee the rule of law, the rule of law, democracy, human rights and the protection and promotion of national minorities. These tasks will be devoted to the forthcoming parliamentary term: strengthening and equipping our constitutions and our institutions. Let me say a few words about the second task, to renew Sweden. We are facing major challenges in government policy. It is a policy area that may not have the most fun name in the state budget and our political life, but we will have to live with it. Worse is the centralization spirit that unfortunately characterizes many of the heads of government in today's Sweden. Unruly, they are putting into effect a centralisation, total tone-done for the policy's guiding signals. This is a major concern. Another major concern is that state regional geography is in free fall. It seems that every authority with self-respect has its own organization map. It is not without feeling sorry for the 21 county boards, which have the rather ungrateful task of trying to cope with cross-sectoral government governance. This is where it has to go. We must jointly renew government policy. Mr President, I would like to We do not lack challenges and tasks, and that is what is so wonderful and wonderful about being politicians and legislators.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-92	Mr President, I would like to Linda is our voice from the north. In the Constitutional Committee we really cover the whole of Sweden, from north to south. I'm a voice from the south. Mr President, I would like to Expenditure area 1 covers more than SEK 15 billion and is the part of the budget that finances the government of Sweden. It is about the Government Office, the Riksdag, the Sami Parliament, democracy policy, the media, human rights, minority rights and the prevention and fight against terrorism – issues that very much define Sweden as the open, liberal, constitutional democracy we are. It is sometimes easy to believe at first sight that these are issues that all elected representatives defend and that there is therefore no point in debating, nor any dividing line between the parties' policies and priorities in this area. Take the goal of democracy policy: a living democracy that is sustainable and characterised by participation and where the opportunities for influence are equal. Who's got a problem with that? Yet we know that people do. For the media area, the objectives are to support freedom of expression, diversity, the independence and accessibility of the media and to counter harmful media influences. Who could be against it? Yet we know that there is an active debate about squeezing the very free speech. Don't we politicians have more important things to do? We have growing criminality, overcrowding detention centres, groups in exclusion with dependency and idleness as a result, care queues and assistance needs that do not have their rights satisfied and a welfare that does not deliver even though we pay among the highest taxes available. And on top of that we have the climate issue that hangs over us and must be resolved here and now. There are indeed concrete problems to be addressed. It was precisely because we Liberals see these problems that we concluded the January agreement and have been involved in negotiating the budget that is now before us in this House. We take responsibility for that. It is because we see these social problems that we are prepared to form a majority in the Riksdag also on other issues to step by step make Sweden a little more liberal, be at the forefront and implement the reforms we need, which strengthen growth, security and trust among all of us. In this budget, we abolish the defence tax and double the research and development deduction to research-intensive companies. The transfer tax is reduced, and we invest money in the justice system and the defence. We are investing in this budget at school, the basis for most of the time, and in integration and the climate. In addition, we Liberals have set ourselves the goal that we should not have any vulnerable suburbs in 2030. It is an ambitious objective, but the alternative is totally unsustainable. Segregation is tearing our society apart. The majority of the population are still satisfied with the way democracy works in Sweden and the EU, and confidence in democratic institutions is actually increasing. You can think otherwise when you read and hear what people say. But here too there are clear differences between the different groups of the population. People with lower education and people living in rural areas are on average less satisfied with the way democracy works and have less confidence in national democratic institutions than people with higher education and people living in other types of regions. This is a development that we must break. Here we come back to Category 1. It is about the funding of strong democratic institutions that can gather and engage, courts we can trust and free and independent media that examine all the functions of society and also educate and broaden the world picture for all people. And that is why Category 1 is actually the foundation of the construction of society. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-104	Mr President, I would like to In my flow on social media a few weeks ago began a conversation about the vision for Sweden. Where do you really find it? In fulfillment of my new mandate as a Member of Parliament and a member of the Constitutional Committee, I made a proposal: The vision of Sweden is contained in the constitutions. But no, it didn't really seem to win. Could it be in Agenda 2030 or perhaps in the Government Declaration? The first is in some way the vision of the whole world, and the second is the vision of the government. What is Sweden's vision? I have carried this issue with me during these first weeks and would like to give it a try now that we are debating the budget report of the Constitutional Committee, with its special mission on constitutional issues. Our constitutions describe a society in which everyone's equal value, freedom and dignity must be respected by the public. One can think about this general – what is it? It is we in Parliament, and it is the government, municipalities and regions, county boards, independent courts and huge numbers of authorities. This covers, among other things, the Constitutional Committee in its reviews of the work of the Government and the Ministers of State, but also the Parliamentary Ombudsmen and the National Audit Office's audits monitor it. So do the free and independent media, which are watching us all the time. What is described in the Constitution is not something we can take for granted, but it is something that constantly requires our attention and care. But is it visionary? Every person's personal, economic and cultural well-being should be fundamental objectives for the public. In particular, we will ensure the right to work, housing and education, as well as promoting social care and security and good conditions for health. All of us will also – as is clear from the constitutions, which I still want to argue bear a vision of Sweden – promote sustainable development that leads to a good environment for us, our children and future generations. Mr President, I would like to Teenagers today are thinking about whether it is a good idea for them to start a family when they get a little older, based on how the climate in the world develops. They doubt whether they can take responsibility for the entire lifetime of their children. This is an urgent issue here and now. We will work to ensure that the ideas of democracy are guided in all areas of society. We must protect the privacy and family life of everyone. Mr President, I would like to We know that this is not a list where we tick of perfection and then settle down. This shows the statements of the constitutional committee's responsibilities in the budget bill. It takes solid work by people throughout our society, but I would say that what I have been talking about now is a common vision for our country that we should all stand up for clearly. In the vision of Sweden, all people are involved and equal, children's rights are especially taken care of and no one is discriminated against. Mr President, I would like to It is a vision for Sweden that I think we need to work together very hard and urgently with the future, because it is challenged by movements in our society and in the world where one cannot agree on the importance of universal and inviolable human rights, such as the right to flee war. One cannot agree on the right to ask for help, to participate in and practice culture, even if it upsets one's circles, the freedom of research, the right to exercise one's religion, freedom of speech, to examine as a journalist the powers without risking threats and the right to live together in one's family. The vision is challenged. The budget now under debate is based on the January agreement between the Green Party and the Social Democrats together with the Liberals and the Centers. The basis for cooperation, which makes it possible to present a budget for this country, is a belief in democracy, in cohesion, in equal value and in transparency. It is a good foundation to continue to safeguard the vision of Sweden and to safeguard our constitutions. Mr President, I would like to Surely these values can be protected in different ways – it is democracy. I do so by calling for approval by the Constitutional Committee.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-117	Mr President, I would like to With my intervention in this debate, I would like to raise the issue of moving the Embassy of Sweden in Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. There are both technical and principled reasons for rejecting the proposals of the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Let me start with the principled ones. The Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats argue that it would be reasonable and most logical to move the embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem because the capital of Israel is actually Jerusalem. But basically it is not a simple logic. The future of Jerusalem is one of the key issues for the prospect of ever a peaceful end to the long-standing Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The fact that Jerusalem has become a contentious issue has historical roots and dimensions of international law of crucial importance. When the UN in 1947 decided that Palestine would be divided into a Jewish and an Arab part, it was established that Jerusalem would be under international sovereignty. One reason was the need to protect religious ones who need to visit their sacred places. This agreement did not prevent Israel from deciding the following year to place its capital in western Jerusalem. There have been many protests from the outside world. Many governments, including Sweden, have respected the position of international law by placing their embassies in Tel Aviv. Until the war of 1967, the West Bank, including parts of Jerusalem, was under Jordan's control. Israel knocked out the Jordanian and other attacking forces and occupied the entire West Bank in 1967. Then eastern Jerusalem and adjacent parts of the West Bank were annexed. The UN Security Council judged this to be a violation of international law. The fact that settlers subsequently moved into annexed areas has also been criticised by the Security Council. A two-state solution and a Palestinian capital in the eastern part of Jerusalem have been undermined not least by President Trumps's decision to move the US Embassy in violation of international agreements. In practice, he has thus given his support to Prime Minister Netanyahu and to Jerusalem's never being shared. There has been a broad international consensus that the key issues of refugees, borders, security and Jerusalem's status must be resolved through real negotiations and in a context. Trumps's move on Jerusalem not only violates international law but also undermines the condition which, after all, has existed for real talks on a two-state solution. We should not ignore the UN resolution of 1947, which gave Jerusalem the status of a separate entity. We should not legitimise Israel's occupation and annexation of East Jerusalem, which was condemned by a united Security Council in 1980. Those who drive this are drying off the fingers of the Oslo Agreement, the framework for a future two-state solution signed in 1993 by Yitzhak Rabin, the Palestinians' Yasir Arafat and the United States' Bill Clinton. That is why such decisions arouse such strong feelings, reactions, and international opposition. This is the way that the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats propose that Sweden should also walk. I do not want Sweden to go that way, and most parties in Parliament do not want that either. A move by our Swedish embassy would be directly irresponsible and would be seen as a support for the American stance. If other governments in Europe followed such an initiative, it would seriously damage the chances of continuing meaningful discussion on a two-state solution. This should also be understood by the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Those were the reasons of principle. Let's get the techs. In the opinion, which is available in car. In the report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy states that a number of requests for resolutions relate to the relocation of embassies, the upgrading of consulates-general to embassies or the establishment of embassies. Like previous opinions to the Constitutional Committee on Category 1 we would like to remind you that, according to the form of government, it is the government, or the authorities that are under the government, that decides on the organisation of the Government Office and the foreign administration and the allocation of resources within the foreign administration. This, according to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, should also include the way in which the foreign administration organises its work. However, it is up to the government to consult the Riksdag on the strategic development of Sweden's foreign representation on an ongoing basis. For example, Sweden's international relations are affected by the opening or closing of a foreign agency. Such decisions should be long-term and based on well-established strategies. Accordingly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that the Government should return to Parliament when there is information about any changes in the foreign administration. I will read to you what the now departed Israeli writer Amos Oz wrote. Actually, I think I like Amos Oz more than I like the quote of him that I'm going to read to you. He's one of my favorites since his early teens. Of Jerusalem he wrote: "The city has been desolated, built, desolated, and rebuilt. Jerusalem is an old nymphomaniac who hugs to death lovers after lovers, before she pushes him away with a yawn. Unless the principled or technical arguments can convince perhaps the cultural and Amos Oz make people think a little bit. Even the Vikings were in Jerusalem, as they called Jorsala, but they did not stay long either. I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-132	Mr President, I would like to We have a debate in the area of expenditure, which covers the funding of tax agencies, enforcement agencies and customs activities. It is, as one quickly realises, discussions that we could be doing for a long time, because it is some of the authorities that seriously stretch up society and that will make Sweden work. For the Swedish Tax Agency, it is of course a question of getting tax money, but also of preventing different types of crime. Customs operations are central to preventing crimes committed in this country by foreign theft leagues, to make our trade work and to ensure that things that are not to enter Sweden do not come in either. The enforcement authority is absolutely central in a society because we must ensure that business transactions can be carried out, that entrepreneurship can be carried out and that people who do not pay for themselves must in fact do the right thing in the end. When different types of reminders and other things do not help, the State should actually ensure that this function is in place. Mr President, I would like to With this statement, I cannot help but reflect on the fact that many of these basic functions no longer work as well as they should in Sweden. This is not based on the fact that the authorities are ignorant or uninvolved – they are characterized by amazing competence and skilled employees – but is based on the fact that the political will direction and governance do not meet the problems that Sweden has. Mr President, I would like to Let me take a few examples. Public confidence in the Swedish Tax Agency has increased. This is justified, partly because it has improved its work, processes and practices, and partly because previous governments have introduced a tax system that enjoys greater legitimacy on the part of citizens. A very unpopular tax like the property tax disappeared. Taxes such as inheritance, gift and wealth taxes that gave great opportunities for cheating, injustice and incomprehensibleness were abolished by governments both on the left and on the right. RUT deductions were introduced, job tax deductions were introduced and so on. In this way, the task of the Tax Agency became more reasonable, as the tax system as such enjoyed greater legitimacy among the population. After that, there has been a development in society, and work in the field of taxation is moving fast. The biggest shortcoming today is the lack of political leadership to address a very serious problem in Sweden regarding population records and identity. Who's who? Who lives where? And how do we ensure that it is the right person to actually talk to? It is a very basic function in a legal society that does not work at all as well as it needs to work. It is regrettable that there is no more dedicated work by the Center Party, the Liberals and the Government to address these serious problems of population records. There are also other types of problems with the Swedish Tax Agency that would need to be addressed and given assignments around. These include, for example, the interpretations made by the Swedish Tax Agency, which have had a very serious impact on the credibility of both the business environment and on being, so to speak, a citizen of Sweden. It can be about everything from how you are treated if you happen to own a quadricycle to, for that matter, if you try to carry out health and care activities. It is very much left out to interpretations from the Swedish Tax Agency. Here a responsible government should have tried to address this. We lack this type of action. When it comes to Kronofogden we were able to read yesterday in Svenska Dagbladet something that all of us who sit on the tax committee well know about, namely that the waiting time to have their cases handled has been twenty-doubled. It's supposed to take five days, but it's now going to take 105 days. Entrepreneurs testify that they cannot do business when they do not receive their money. This is a form of betrayal from the common society – what we say should work but which no longer works. The state is not the guarantor of payments that it has pledged to be. It drives uncertainty to conduct business and entrepreneurship in Sweden, and it risks hitting both trust and growth in society. It is difficult to understand why this type of problem is not addressed in the context of this case. On the customs side, we are pleased by the Moderates that the government does not revise the increase in appropriations that we have pushed through. On the contrary, it is clear that the task of the Customs Agency needs to be tightened up and clarified. A very big problem is that you can easily remove stolen goods from Sweden. Unfortunately, this makes Swedish households grateful targets. If you know that you can load a trailer full of stolen goods and then drive straight out of the country with it without there being sufficient mandate to hold the thieves, then Swedish households also suffer from an international look at theft. Here you know that there are people you can take things from and then get away with it because the state does not have enough control over the exit. Mr President, I would like to We, the Moderates, are not taking part in the vote, because our framework has fallen on this matter. Nevertheless, we would like to point out, as we do in our particular opinion, that other priorities could actually be made here that would be more in the service of society. It is regrettable that it adds money to the Swedish Tax Agency and takes time from the Swedish Tax Agency to introduce a new inefficient subsidy system into the labour market, which we already know in advance will have a low impact and which is similar to different types of measures that we have had without effect in the past. We are now going to spend tax money on this and provide the Swedish Tax Agency with support to develop systems for administering it. It is not a responsible way of managing the common funds. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, we are of course behind the policy that we are presenting in our budget motion to the Swedish Parliament. We also want to signal that we have been clear that we would like to see progress and work more constructively in these areas. Unfortunately, there is a very heated tone in the general climate of debate in Sweden. It is said that Sweden is misbehaved, misbehaved and so on. I don't think you should use really strong words. But Sweden is definitely unmeated. Looking out over the majority here behind this proposal – center parties, liberals, social democrats and environmentalists – I can nevertheless marvel at the fact that no more is being done in these central areas of society. Do you not see the problems with the censuses and with people whose identity is not known? Do you not see the problems with the export of stolen goods from the country? Do you not see the problem of twenty-doubled queue times at Kronofogden? Would it not be better, in such cases, to bring resources there instead of bringing resources to the Swedish Tax Agency to develop administrative systems for grants and subsidies in the labour market which, apparently, have a very low impact?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-145	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Moderates about how they count in their budget option. I am aware of Niklas Wykman's interest and deep knowledge of economics. When does Niklas Wykman think he can change the Moderates' view of the estimates in the budget? In all areas of spending in the Moderate Budget Movement, they allow price and wage increases to be reduced by 50% to finance reforms in the budget exercise. How can universities, the Swedish Tax Agency and all other government activities get rid of staff and premises so quickly when they have long rental contracts? They won't make it in a month. The question is whether this procedure is correct, because the other lots do not use this model. When does Niklas Wykman think he can change the Moderates' view of price and wage increases?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-146	Mr President, I would like to Anyone looking out at Swedish society today will hardly conclude that the current government and the majority represented by Jörgen Hellman are specifically sent to take care of the country that we have. This was shown most recently yesterday in the SCB survey that came where the Social Democrats get their worst record ever. I do not think, therefore, that Jörgen Hellman is in a position to tell me or the Moderates how to count in a budget. If this majority had been able to make good budgets, Sweden would have worked better than it is today. To answer the question: our view, Mr President, is that the authorities should be managed effectively. The State shall not enjoy benefits which private companies or households do not have. It goes without saying that the state should not only be able to count on greater revenues to carry out the same work. Our budgetary principle is very clear, namely that increased resources and powers should be accompanied by a larger mandate. Things should not just automatically be allowed to become more expensive. I am well aware that the Social Democrats are looking at waste through widely spread fingers; it is not a problem for the Social Democrats to spend money in a way that is not effective. It helps to drive up the tax burden, and that is in itself a good thing, according to the Social Democrats. For those of us who do not think so – for those of us who do not think that large charges on hardworking people and households have an intrinsic value – it is of course important to ensure that tax crowns are not wasted in public activities. Public activities shall have the money they need to carry out the task assigned to them. Automatic cost revaluation without increased responsibilities is not a sound policy. There is then a need for funds to be injected, absolutely, but this should be done in such cases in order to solve new tasks or perform old tasks better– not in order to increase expenditure.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-150	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the clear answer that the Moderates will continue to be the only party to count in its own way, Niklas Wykman. I have another question about the estimates for Category 3. The Moderates want to try to solve most social problems with reduced taxes, which always has the effect that there is a lack of money in the business. I would like to ask Niklas Wykman what social problems you solve when you reduce the financial perspective by SEK 262 million for the Tax Agency, customs and the enforcement officer. What do you see that has an impact on the authorities? I understand that half the answer is that you are not buying the proposal on the initial deduction – that was Niklas Wykman very clear in his speech – but what are the savings you have in mind? We received only half the answer from Niklas Wykman in his speech.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-153	Mr President, I would like to Unusually, Jörgen Hellman is ill-read. There are absolutely no proposals to reduce the appropriations for customs activities; on the contrary, we have pro-actively pushed and pushed this majority before us in order for customs to have both more resources and increased powers. We have a special motion on that. We will also come back in January, I believe, in a special debate in this House on why you do not take responsibility for Sweden's borders in the way that will now be necessary. I can repeat my answer to Jörgen Hellman: we are not increasing spending anywhere without giving that authority new tasks. It is not a responsible way of managing tax revenue simply by allowing costs to rise over time. It is not a luxury that anyone else in society has. Call home to any family with children and ask what their finances look like! Do you take the luxury of simply allowing expenditure to increase from year to year, unchecked? Of course, everyone answers no to that question. Then you can't spend their money that way either, Jörgen Hellman.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-155	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the reservation to be approved. As far as the appropriations for Category 3 are concerned, we are expressing our proposal in our specific opinion in the report. We are therefore not taking part in the decision, because our appropriations are higher than the adopted financial framework. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats are proposing a significantly larger allocation than the government to the relevant authorities. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority have central tasks for the maintenance of a well-functioning society in respect of the maintenance of good payment standards and in terms of law enforcement. The Swedish Democrats propose increased funding for all three agencies, but our top priority is – as so many times before – the Swedish Customs Agency. The Customs Agency is facing huge challenges, to use a misused word. While working with scarce resources, there are very large commitments. Over time, the Customs Agency has been forced to lower its level of ambition, in parallel with the fact that society is struggling with large-scale serious organised crime, where trafficking in smuggled goods such as drugs, weapons, tobacco and alcohol is a major social hazard. In addition, it is known that a large number of stolen goods of various kinds are smuggled out of Sweden, which Customs has neither the resources nor in many cases the powers to prevent. The social costs of government restraint towards organised crime are increasing. The increased funding announced so far by the Government is not enough to plug the holes that several years of savings have created in Customs' operations. Now, in itself, the government seems to allocate funds, with the aim not only of maintaining existing activities but also of a certain expansion. We believe, however, that it is too little. The reductions in previous years, combined with an increase in organised crime involving contraband products, are detrimental to society. This needs to be given higher priority. The Swedish Democrats believe that a greater focus needs to be placed on the Swedish Customs' law enforcement and thus security conservation activities. Our focus is that border protection needs to be developed and, above all, extended. Cooperation with police and other authorities needs to be developed and more investment in technology is needed to facilitate border protection and controls in the flow of goods. The Swedish Democrats' proposal represents an increase in ambition that would create the conditions to reverse developments correctly so that the Swedish Customs Administration can intensify its work against organised crime within its areas of responsibility. Priority must also be given to the security of staff and, not least, to their powers in order to meet the increased pressure of criminal activities. It is also necessary to increase the level of ambition for both quality and quantity in Customs' operations. It is therefore sad that there are doubts expressed by governments about the extension of the Customs Agency's powers. The work of carrying out checks to detect the exit of stolen goods and other criminal exits must be intensified and given the conditions necessary for such offences to be effectively prosecuted. Border protection also needs to be expanded with the aim of working around the clock, all year round and in all places where it is needed. Today, the Finnish Customs does not have the capacity to handle border protection in this way. The Swedish Customs Agency must also manage the efforts on digitalisation and other service measures needed to meet the commitments we have within the framework of the Customs Union and facilitate trade between Sweden and other countries, which is a crucial issue for the Swedish economy. The Customs Office also expects that increased appropriations will be needed to deal with the situation following the UK's withdrawal from the EU. The Swedish Tax Agency primarily handles tax matters with a focus on service and collection of taxes but has several other assignments. The design and direction of the agency's activities are important for the development of society in these respects. The Swedish Democrats' political orientation for the Swedish Tax Agency is based on development work in the areas of international tax agreements and combating tax crime, secured financing of welfare and security, development of a business-friendly government procedure, intensification of work on regulatory simplification, order and order in public records – not least – and more tax controls. The Tax Agency should prioritise work on the bilateral tax agreements in order to maintain Swedish export competition, which is important not least for employment in Sweden. It is also an area where Sweden has fallen behind, which we have drawn attention to in the past. Another important task is law enforcement, also in cooperation with other authorities. In line with globalisation, the OECD has noted that the problems of tax evasion and tax evasion have increased. In several previous contexts, we have expressed our support for Swedish participation in a broad international cooperation within the framework of the OECD's anti-BEPS measures. In addition to intentional tax offences and aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, there are also tax errors that are sometimes unintentional. The Swedish Tax Agency needs to expand its efforts to prevent these tax errors, and the Swedish Democrats therefore propose increased funding for more tax controls. Furthermore, there is a need to ensure a good service to companies, simplification of regulatory systems and good order in public records, as I mentioned earlier, and there the Tax Agency has a great deal of responsibility. The Swedish Democrats do not support the government's announced entry and youth deductions because previous measures of this kind have proved ineffective and there is no reason to expect any other result this time. As a result of the Government's proposal, SEK 141 million is allocated for the implementation of IT systems and administration at the Swedish Tax Agency, linked to the deduction. So we Swedish democrats were able to remove this appropriation from our draft budget. The task of the enforcement authority is, in addition to collecting tax and other debts, to provide support to those who are not paid for their claims and to make it easier for those who are in default to get back on their feet. An important task in this context is to develop methods to raise awareness of the backsides of over-indebtedness and how to avoid such a situation. The Swedish Enforcement Authority has already come some way, for example through its work with the Koll project on the everyday economy, but we believe that there should be more to do in this area. Any person or company that avoids insolvency is a profit for society. Therefore, we want to commission the Swedish Enforcement Authority to develop this part of the agency's work and propose legislative changes that can help reduce the risks of over-indebtedness.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-171	Mr President, I would like to In its budget motion, the Left Party takes a holistic approach to the growing gaps. We want Sweden to become the world's most equal country. We know that economic equality is good for the development of a country. In equal societies, health is better, security is greater and economic growth is higher. School outcomes are also positively affected, and equality between women and men is further advanced. In recent decades, inequalities in society have increased. At the same time, the redeployment of the tax system has deteriorated significantly. Relative poverty has doubled in less than ten years, while the economic elite have improved in Sweden. In this situation, the government is presenting a budget that primarily benefits rich men, at the expense of welfare. The necessary efforts on welfare are lacking, despite the fact that around Sweden there are alarm reports of major cuts in school, elderly care and health care. The Left Party has other priorities. That is why we are presenting a plan of reforms to increase equality in society. The Left Party wants to invest in general welfare. These are initiatives that are central to a more equal society. We want to see a different approach to budgetary policy. Our proposal in this area of expenditure should be seen as part of our budgetary option, which we see as a whole. Furthermore, in the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than we wish. That is why we are not taking part in the decision either, but we are putting forward our own policy.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-178	Mr President, I would like to The three authorities, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten, have a fundamental importance for us to have a well-functioning economy that is characterised by order and order. In particular, the Swedish Tax Agency ensures that the taxes that are determined by us politicians here in Parliament, in the regions and in the municipalities are collected, but the agency also has important law enforcement tasks. Customs controls the flow of goods into and out of Sweden, contributes to a secure society and ensures competitively neutral and efficient trade. The latter is not least important for Sweden, which is a small and trade-dependent country. The Swedish Enforcement Authority works to maintain a good willingness to pay in society. This is important for all forms of enterprise and for maintaining trust between people at a high level. In addition, the Swedish Enforcement Authority's work on debt restructuring for over-indebted people is very important from a social perspective. In recent years, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Customs Agency have received large additions to their operations. When the Christian Democrats and the Moderates last year got through our budget reservation here in Parliament, this meant that the Swedish Tax Agency received a supplement of 30 million and the Swedish Customs Agency a supplement of 90 million. The resource supplements were made to strengthen the Swedish Tax Agency's work against tax evasion and to strengthen the Swedish Customs' border controls. Now the strengthening of the Customs Agency is continuing, and that is something that we Christian Democrats welcome. In our budget we are making the same financial contribution as the government, but at the same time we know that customs needs more than just financial contributions. The Christian Democrats want to strengthen customs law enforcement and border protection, and this also requires additional powers. Mr President, I would like to In June this year, a large number of representatives of various industry organisations – 13, more specifically – wrote about the frustration that entrepreneurs in these industries feel about international theft leagues seeing Sweden as a sandwich table. According to the 13 organizations, these international leagues commit hundreds of thousands of thefts and distribute goods for billions of dollars each year. We are now calling on politicians to take concrete steps to stop international theft leagues as soon as possible. We're tired of seeing stolen goods leave the country without anything happening. ..................................................... The Christian Democrats' message to these organisations, and to everyone else who is tired of seeing stolen goods taken out of the country, is: We see you. We know about the problem. That is precisely why there was an announcement in the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' budget last year that the powers of the Customs Authority must be increased. This must be implemented as soon as possible. Customs needs to become, to a greater extent, a border protection authority that can prosecute all types of offences at the border. Not least, the export of goods must be controlled considerably harder. Mr President, I would like to The enforcement authority, like the other authorities in this area of expenditure, has several important tasks. One of these is to address the problems of over-indebtedness. There are many reasons why debt problems arise. The most common is that there is a major change in life, such as separation, illness, unemployment or bankruptcy. Often this happens in combination with low incomes and small margins. The resulting problems are great, both for the individual and for society. We know that there are strong links between financial vulnerability and mental illness. Support and help for these people are of course very important from a purely human perspective, but the socio-economic costs of mental illness must not be underestimated either. Part of the problem of over-indebtedness is the result of quick loans and SMS loans, not least for many young people. They risk getting into a very vulnerable situation. In this area, the Christian Democrats have worked in various ways to make improvements. For example, authorisation obligations have been introduced for the short-term loan companies. In addition, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has been tasked with overseeing the companies, and the Swedish Consumer Agency has been given increased opportunities to sanction deficiencies in the credit assessment. But more needs to be done to strengthen the work against over-indebtedness. To help over-indebted people, there is the possibility of debt restructuring at the Swedish Enforcement Authority. When applying for debt adjustment, the authority makes an assessment where, among other things, they examine how and why the debts arose and if the individual has done what it can to pay them. Getting debt restructuring can be a very important help for those who have such large debts that they can never be paid off. Children of parents who cannot pay their bills due to indebtedness are particularly vulnerable. In 2018, 448 children were affected by executed evictions from the dwelling. This is an increase of 14 per cent on the previous year alone. During the time the Christian Democrats were in government, priority was given to reducing the number of evictions of families with children. This work produced positive results, but now specific efforts are needed again to reduce this figure. Unfortunately, this is not a priority for the government and its cooperation parties. The budget for next year takes SEK 20 million away from the work against over-indebtedness. This means that fewer people will be given the opportunity to deleveraging. As a result, more people will live with large debts and with a greater risk of mental illness. That is very unfortunate. Instead, the Christian Democrats want the Swedish Enforcement Authority's work against over-indebtedness to be strengthened. We want prevention to be strengthened, processing times to be shortened and families with children to be given priority. We say no to the withdrawal of the January parties doing this important work and instead add another SEK 10 million. Compared to the January parties, we allocate SEK 30 million more for this. Finally, Mr President, the Christian Democrats have presented their own draft budget. It fell last week, and Parliament has decided on the financial perspectives for next year in accordance with the Government's proposal. Our budgets are wholes, and we support the regulatory framework that we have for the budget work here in Parliament. Accordingly, I have abstained from taking part in the decision in this area of expenditure in committee. That is why I do not have a motion today either.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-201	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal for a decision. Today we are debating Category 3, which concerns tax collection, customs control, debt recovery and debt restructuring. In total, the report proposes EUR 12 billion and EUR 57 million to these three authorities. This is an important activity in many ways and the precondition for the state's income. It is a question of stopping illegal entry, customs and debt enforcement. The proposal on which we have a position today means that all these authorities can recruit. For the Customs Agency in particular, this will mean that the number of employees at the agency will increase. It is, of course, important to collect tax revenue. They finance welfare and our important social investments. Any missing tax crown and cheating in the benefit system undermines solidarity and trust in society. It destroys the kit in the building of society. We have heard about the Swedish Tax Agency's preliminary business plan, and I find it impressive. The Authority shall make it easier for the public and businesses to do the right thing. It is important to have uniform and legally sound treatment. Digitization will continue. As citizens today, we can declare in many ways, for example, on a telephone. It's very simple. It is much more difficult for entrepreneurs. But I feel that the Swedish Tax Agency is still trying to work with simplifications through digitalisation. One advantage of digitalisation is that it counteracts errors and cheating and makes it easy to declare. I also feel that the Swedish Tax Agency is trying to improve its external and internal information so that it is right. The Swedish Tax Agency's funding will be increased by a total of SEK 152 million for 2020. Examples of efforts made by the government are to combat welfare crimes and improve the quality of civil records and to have a system that allows certain authorities to access bank account data. Of course, the IRS can't do magic in these systems. We need to review the tax system; it is over 25 years old. A review is included in the January agreement. Today's tax system was decided before the Internet existed, and we were not in the EU at the time. Since then, over 600 exceptions have been decided in this House. In addition, I feel that the Swedish Tax Agency's reinterpretations create even more twitchiness in the tax system, so a review is needed. It must lead to fewer exceptions, which creates simplifications. Mr President, I would like to Much is being done to prosecute tax evasion. We have already decided in this House on a wide range of measures. It is of course important for the state's income, but it is also of great importance to create competition neutrality between companies and equal conditions for employees in companies. Mr President, I would like to There have been many international leaks, including Swedish residents and known banks. The OECD and European countries are trying to close the tax evasion window in many ways, and we Social Democrats welcome the OECD BEPS project. I believe, Mr President, that one of the forthcoming decisions in this House will be that tax advisors should report on their arrangements. The last term of office, together with the Left Party, produced a twelve-point programme against tax evasion. It has, of course, also been done to create sensible competition and to counter unfair competition. As several speakers have mentioned, the Swedish Tax Agency is also responsible for population accounts. We all see in the media sometimes that someone has hijacked an identity. Strange people keep their books at other people's addresses. At times, the tax administration's processing times have been far too long. Much therefore needs to be done. The law has changed, and now the Swedish Tax Agency is developing the computer systems when it comes to population records. But I suppose we all have an expectation here that people's records will have a higher quality. The government has also appointed a special investigator to propose measures to improve population records even more. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is an open country. But it takes order at our borders. The EU stands for the control of our external borders, but we will also need border controls between countries to combat the illegal trade in alcohol, drugs and weapons, which fertilises serious organised crime. That is why the S-MP government gave an addition to the Customs Agency last term of office. And we can read that this year the financial perspective will be increased by 40 million and will continue to be raised in 2021. But our efforts must also be seen as a whole. We provide assistance to the police and other authorities in the law enforcement chain. The Swedish Enforcement Authority describes to the Tax Committee in its business plan that it does as the Swedish Tax Agency and tries to develop IT support. It is, of course, in order to make it easier to recover debts and help people with payment plans. It is important that the Riksdag monitors the modernisation of its activities. The efforts at the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten are being carried out to meet the need for collaboration in the fight against welfare crime and other financial crime. Mr President, I would like to Finally, when you read the budget proposals and party movements, you can see that the Social Democrats, the Environment Party, the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Left have the same assessment of the budgetary framework for Category 3 Taxation, Customs and Enforcement, so it feels like we have a broad consensus in this area of expenditure.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-217	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech earlier, the Parliament has announced to the government that a new legislation must be drawn up that gives the Customs staff the power to stop and search vehicles to stop the shipment of stolen goods, and, as I said, many people are asking for this. Svensk Handel, Svensk Försäkring, Stöldsföreningen and ten other organizations believe that the international theft leagues see Sweden as a sandwich table. Those who are victims of burglary and the elderly who are victims of theft do not have the resources to write debate articles in Svenska Dagbladet, but they too are very vulnerable. For these people, entrepreneurs and private individuals, it is not enough for the Customs Agency to receive financial support. The Customs Agency must also be given additional powers. It has now been a year since the Riksdag gave its announcement to the government, and during this year the Social Democrats have not been able to give information about when customs will be given more powers. The fact is that the Social Democrats have not even been able to give information on whether customs should be given more powers. Now the Social Democrats are given another chance to give a reply. Can Jörgen Hellman today tell us if the announcement of the Riksdag will be met and if so, when?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-221	Mr President, I would like to Hampus Hagman describes a major social problem. I guess we're following all the news reports on the thefts and the exits from the country. Hampus and I come from West Sweden, and we now have a new police academy in Borås. The expansion of all activities in the legal chain is, of course, one of the answers. Of course, cooperation between police and customs must also be improved. Then more officers are required, and this is what the government is working on. As far as the review is concerned, we will see what the government comes up with in its preparation. I feel that the committee, like the government, takes this issue very seriously, and the committee will have a customs debate in January. It is therefore a highly topical issue that Hampus Hagman raises.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-225	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the police receive more support, that we have more police officers, that the justice chain is strengthened and that the authorities cooperate is one of the answers, but that is not the answer to the question I asked about when the Customs Agency will be given more powers. I find the lack of information on Parliament's announcement to the government on this issue distressing. Those who are victims of crime, those who are victims of burglary, the elderly who are victims of theft and the shop owners who are being robbed are hardly satisfied with the government's meekness in dealing with this issue. I can once again say that it is distressing.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-227	Mr President, I would like to If customs powers are to be changed, this means a whole new approach to what customs should do. We are in the European Union, and the European Union is the external border. We're going to customs declare and control what's coming in so we can't get weapons, drugs and other things that aren't going in. This is of course an important main focus, because we do not want these hand grenades and guns. Theft is the police's responsibility to investigate. However, there is an administrative cooperation, so if Customs discovers anything, they call the police and try to detain the goods so that the police can seize it. In discussions with the Swedish Customs, we still feel that the rules of the law for police and customs work relatively well. However, I believe that more resources for the police are one of the keys.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-230	Mr President, I would like to The prerequisite for our welfare is that there are companies that can, dare and want to hire. Only then can the tax revenue be generated that we need for the common. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority are central parts, not only for the Swedish legal society but to ensure that the state's collection is correct, neither more nor less. I will come back to this later. Mr President, I would like to Predictability and clear rules of play are essential to ensure the payment of determined taxes in a legally secure and effective manner. That is the basis for financing our public activities. It is also a question of equal treatment and the safeguarding of trust in the public sector. Mr President, I would like to A tax system should be transparent and easy to understand. It should simply be easy to do the right thing. However, we know that it is not always easy. Organisations and entrepreneurs have a variety of regulations and laws to keep track of and relate to. Some are industry-specific, while others are designed according to company form. Mr President, I would like to I stressed that recovery should be correct, neither more nor less. There is reason to develop here. I note that the Swedish Tax Agency has devoted itself to increasingly fiscal interpretations of Parliament's decisions over a number of years. The fact that the work as a control authority has started direct and indirect control of economic activities is anything but good. Let me take some fundamentally important examples from real life. A first example is that the Swedish Tax Agency has called for withdrawal tax for a district farm association of 235 376 SEK. The background is that the association rents out facilities for school activities during the day on weekdays. The reason for the withdrawal tax is that the association is considered to be able to dispose of the premises during nights and weekends. Taxation should therefore be based on the right of establishment, not actual exploitation. By interpreting the legislation in this extremely fiscal and directly incorrect way, the country's community associations, F olket's H us - associations, sports associations and others, as is common, are in danger of renting out their premises in part. They are taxed for large revenues that never existed. Moreover, these associations are often small and non-profit organisations. Another example is the preferential taxation of quadricycles. A machine that an entrepreneur who works on road construction has acquired for 109 000 SEK, the Swedish Tax Agency wants to impose an annual benefit value of 87 360 SEK based on summer rentals, probably leisure activities, on Möja in the Stockholm archipelago. On the same theme: A forest owner who has acquired a forest equipped quadricycle for 81 000 SEK will be charged a preferential value of 180 600 SEK. These are totally unreasonable levels. They are then set down by the courts, but not all small businesses have the power or the resources to pursue these issues and appeal the actions of the Tax Agency. This gives a great deal of uncertainty. Yes, it's directly legal. A person engaged in an economic activity through a company is liable to tax the use of the company's assets solely on the basis of the right of establishment. A third and final example concerns energy taxation in the production of snow. Since 1996, according to the decision of the Swedish Tax Agency, it has been possible for snow manufacturers with snow cannons to have tax reductions to the lower industrial tax rate on energy taxation on electricity. This decision has been a fundamental economic precondition for the now more than 210 snow plants that operate around the country – ranging from small, non-profit associations to municipalities and companies. At the beginning of this year, the Swedish Tax Agency announced that previous tax reductions no longer apply. It is now full tax without the possibility of applying a lower industrial tax rate that applies. This decision came a long way into the new financial year, and it is, regardless of the legal basis, a mismanagement that is not reasonable. Companies, associations or municipalities operating plants must have clear and predictable conditions in order to be able to carry out their activities. Mr President, I would like to These examples clarify the legal uncertainty experienced by many business operators. An important role for the Swedish Tax Agency is to ensure that the legal situation in the tax area is clarified. It must always be done from a legal science perspective with balanced interpretations, not just from a fiscal perspective. Mr President, I would like to The presence of the state throughout the country is central to society at large. Authorities have an important role to play in ensuring that we have a decentralised location. It's for citizens and all businesses. It is also important to contribute through presence to development and growth in the country. Technology development makes it easier for authorities to carry out a decentralised activity that exists throughout the country. The presence of public authorities also contributes to improving the labour market. When the private sector is to recruit people, preferably key people, it is important and helpful to have a mix of private employers and government employers in place. Mr President, I would like to Three years ago, the Swedish Tax Agency announced the closure of operations in a number of locations in the country. There were nine places. This was not done for economic reasons, but was justified by the fact that the Swedish Tax Agency should be where companies are today and where companies will exist in the future. Places on the decommissioning list were Värnamo in the Gnosjö region, Enköping and Lycksele, to name a few. This was stopped, and I hope that the Tax Committee played a major role in it. We called the Director General three times to Parliament and put him against the wall. Mr President, I would like to The day before yesterday, I visited the Kronofogdemyndigheten in Mora and Hudiksvall, where the local offices are now to be closed according to the krona bailiff; instead, they will be moved to larger locations in each region. The actions of these two authorities demonstrate the need for change. The presence of public authorities throughout the country must be ensured. I believe, as I have also attributed to the Prime Minister, that strategic future issues cannot be determined by the decisions of an individual authority, decisions that only take into account their own authority and completely miss the important overall perspective. The decision on where the state's activities should be is a matter for the government and for politics. How and where the state is present is a strategic political issue. Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-252	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by pointing out the remarkable fact that the Member of Parliament, Per Åsling, says that the application of the authorities is incorrect. That's not the order we have anyway. In here, we make laws. The government writes regulatory letters to the authorities. The authorities apply the legislation. Citizens may appeal against the application. It is then subject to judicial review, which determines the law applicable and how the law is to be interpreted when it is contested. If you then do not appreciate the outcome of government decisions or courts, it is our task here to make new laws, or the government's task to write new regulatory letters. That is how we make our society work, not by reviewing the decisions of authorities and courts politically directly. If so, we will do so by means of regulatory letters and by amending the legislation on which it is based. It is important that we keep up with this raw material, especially in these times. My question to Per Åsling concerns whether Per Åsling is satisfied with the social development we see. This is a very important area of expenditure. It concerns the basic functions of the state. Tax collection is a harsh word, but that is basically what it is all about. It is about our borders, the Swedish Customs and protection against things that should not be in Sweden coming in here. It is about securing transactions in society by being able to collect debts. Does Per Åsling consider that the voters in Jämtland got what they voted for with this government and the decision we are going to make today? Is that what the voters wanted?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-254	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commenting on the legal situation. What I was referring to in my speech was that, on the basis of the right of establishment, a practice has been established in the Supreme Administrative Court. This practice only supports the attitude of the Tax Agency in terms of more expensive property that can be used in private. It does not support the taxation of the possibility of using, for example, quadricycles and other vehicles, which I mentioned in my speech. With regard to the question put by Niklas Wykman, I can say that the January Agreement today is the basis for the involvement of the Center Party in politics. It is in this way that we can participate directly and govern outside the Riksdag and govern and work with the Government. I see that the January agreement contains many elements that are very good for Jämtland County and that mean that we have increased resource allocation throughout the country. The whole country will benefit from these resources. As far as taxation is concerned, I know that we have different views. We are making a change that means that with the budget that will now be adopted, there will be an increased basic deduction for people living in Swedish rural areas. This is done to remove the tax wedge between rural residents and others. Rural residents often pay more taxes and have less service than average.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-257	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party entered into the January Agreement with the declared aim to isolate a party, namely the Swedish Democrats, from power. Judging by the polls, that strategy goes well. But it's not the political game that's important. The important thing is the outcome in society and how the country develops. Per Åsling still sounds relatively satisfied with the development we see. It is hard to believe that so many others are so happy, except those who are directly signing parties to this agreement. Sweden has serious problems. The Swedish Tax Agency is now being given money to administer subsidies for jobs that are likely to have a very low impact. My question to Per Åsling is this: would it not have been better, for example, to give that money to customs for countering the export of stolen goods?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-260	Mr President, I would like to In the budget submitted by the government and in the Moderates' motion, it is on the crown the same allocation to customs. If we are to reverse developments and ensure that the whole country can have growth and that people can operate and live where they want, it is urgent that politics has that basic approach. I think it is important to make this clear. That is a fundamental point in the January agreement, and it has come there because the Center Party has pushed ahead. It is important to note that we have thereby achieved an urgent change in Swedish policy.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-262	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good debate. The collection of taxes in a legally secure, accurate and predictable manner is the basis both for the creation of prosperity and for the distribution of wealth in the form of welfare. The area of the budget that we are now debating is perhaps, therefore, the most fundamental of all areas. Companies, those who create wealth, the entrepreneurial people, entrepreneurs, innovators and those who go to work need to know that the Tax Agency is acting properly, that authorities are legally secure and that there are predictable conditions for them to create the wealth that we then use to finance, for example, the judiciary and welfare. Welfare needs a workable and predictable tax intake in order for us to finance those things. Madam President, I would like It is often our question: what similarities do you find between the Liberals and the Social Democrats in the January agreement? What's the common idea? One thing we have in common is that we want to combat welfare crime. The Social Democrats have been very committed to safeguarding confidence in welfare and therefore wanted to combat welfare crime. Of course, we in the Liberals share that entrance. But we are also very excited about stopping tax evasion. Every time there is a welfare crime, every time someone cheats, you waste tax crowns. It is also the case that every time you cheat, confidence in welfare is reduced. It diminishes in a way that the Social Democrats in this constellation have perhaps primarily been skeptical. For us in the Liberals it has been an important part of the budget and this budget area to reduce the waste of tax money. It's part of our confidence in everything we do in this house. Madam President, I would like Strengthening the whole legal chain has also been an important priority for the Liberals. It is relevant in this area not least for the work of the Swedish Tax Agency, the work of the Kronofogden and perhaps especially in this case for customs work. It is Customs who should be the guarantor that we do not shovel stolen goods from Sweden, nor do we get things we do not want to have to Sweden. The joint broad effort on the whole legal chain that we get with the budget is a negotiating success for the Liberals. It is true, as has been said here earlier in the debate, that customs needs more powers. But it is also true that you need to cooperate even more with the police. The police need reinforcements so that you can intervene even more. It is also the case that you need more resources for the things you are already doing today. It is natural for customs to have to give priority. It is clear that every day it moves across our borders weapons, heavy dangerous drugs, but also other things that are illegal. Unfortunately, Customs, with its limited resources, must give priority to taking certain things ahead of other things. It is in order for it to prioritise even more things and take even more things that we do not want to get in or out of the country that customs needs more resources. This will be achieved in the joint effort on the whole legal chain. In the Öresund region, Tullverket says that the criminal gangs – the gangs we read about in the newspaper that shoot people to death on the open street in Malmö – are financed by transporting candy to Denmark. Denmark has a sugar tax, and then you can make money by buying candy cheaply in Sweden and selling it on the Danish market. It is reasonable that you first take kalashnikovs and machine guns, then heroin and so on. If we are also to be able to take candy that is transported across our borders, we will need quite substantial efforts at the Customs Agency and the police, at cooperation and cooperation, and also further strengthening of their powers. Madam President, I would like This spending area is the basis for everything we do in this house. I am pleased to be able to vote through a broad approach to the whole legal chain together with the House today.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-272	Madam President, I would like Trust is a beautiful word, and it is central to the proper functioning of democracy. The whole state budget is based on people contributing in different ways by paying taxes. The fact that taxes are collected in an effective and legally secure way enables us in this House to decide on the direction of the country, hopefully to make life better for our fellow human beings and to nurture the nature on which we depend. But we need to make sure we focus right. When we talk about tax evasion, there may be cases of subsidy fraud. People living close to the margin can be examined harder to ensure that no subsidies are given to the unjustified. However, the question is whether it is reasonable when there is a small part of disappearing if you compare with the tax fraudsters who move their huge capital around in order to avoid contributing to those who need it the most. According to the Swedish Tax Agency's latest estimates, it may be up to 130 billion SEK per year that would otherwise have been taxed in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The IRS has an important role to play in combating fraud and crime. When the Tax Agency last made a special effort against tax evasion and hit-and-run, it received almost 30 times the money back in the work of stopping tax evasion. It is of the utmost importance that cooperation between our various authorities continues to develop. Madam President, I would like Stopping crime and entry at Sweden's borders is socially effective. It is therefore gratifying that we are now spending SEK 40 million on customs and its tasks. It has an important role to play in the smuggling of drugs, weapons and dangerous goods, but also an important role in maintaining CITES in the fight against illegal trafficking in endangered animals. It is the fourth largest illegal trade worldwide. However, only imports from overseas countries into Europe are being examined, which is now a major shortcoming. Europe has become a place where ivory and other parts of endangered animals are traded, while this black money is being laundered. Not infrequently, the economic flows from illegal trade come together. The beneficiaries are the major criminal networks. There is a great potential for development here for the work of our authorities. Madam President, I would like A third authority under the Tax Committee is the Enforcement Authority. The enforcement authority receives increased funding and participates in the coordination function against money laundering together with, among other things, the police. In times when all major Swedish banks have been involved in money laundering scandals, it is important that we strengthen the authorities working on this issue. The enforcement authority plays an important role in making it more difficult for ruthless people to make money from criminal activities. Madam President, I would like When these authorities work well, it will be easier for us politicians to make the changes we want to see and strengthen trust. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-279	Madam President, I would like The proposal we are now going to debate is about the coupon tax. It is not that one might think tax on coupons, but it is tax on dividends from limited liability companies when a person does not live or a company does not exist in Sweden. It is a tax that is paid directly regardless of whether you will then actually pay the tax at the end of the year. For those of us who live in Sweden it works in a different way. Then you wait until the end of the year and sum up plus and minus and see if you should pay capital gains taxes. For example, if you get dividends from one company and earn money from it but have deficits in another at an equal amount, they will set each other off, and you do not have to pay any tax. But with the coupon tax, tax is deducted directly, i.e. withholding tax, on all dividends. This means that if a person who lives abroad or a company that comes from another country receives dividends from Sweden, they will, regardless of anything else, be automatically taxed on the dividend. When the year is over and it turns out that this was not a correct tax and that you should get the money back it takes a long time before the person or company gets the money back. The proposal put forward by the government is that you should be able to be deferred, i.e. that you should be able to apply to avoid paying the tax until you have summated the plus and minus after the end of the year. This is basically a good proposal, at least the spirit of it. This automatically paying withholding tax on the coupon tax makes it less attractive for foreign companies and foreign investors to invest in Sweden, to invest in Swedish companies and to invest in Swedish entrepreneurs and Swedish companies' ideas so that we get more jobs, more companies and greater prosperity here to Sweden. In essence, therefore, the spirit of the proposal is very good and positive, and we call for the proposal to be approved in the proposal. However, as with so many other things with this government, the proposal has nevertheless been made sloppy and bad. A number of points could have made the legislation much better. We, the Moderates, therefore have a supplementary proposal for the government to come back and make the improvements that I will now mention. Firstly, the proposal for deferment should also cover natural persons. It is not only foreign companies that can receive dividends from Swedish companies, but also private individuals can receive it. Even individuals who come from other countries may want to invest in Sweden, and that is something that should be encouraged. The fact that the government divides companies and individuals in this way is unfortunate, and one might ask why. It is not something that the government is discussing in the bill, but it seems that it is simply a result of carelessness and poor preparation. Secondly, we have views on the need to ensure that the person receiving this grace does not suffer currency effects. For example, the exchange rate between the krona and the euro may fluctuate in a way that may present problems. In most of the cases in the proposal, it will not be a problem, but the government has failed to cover capital gains rules. This means that there may be problems for a number of large groups, and it is above all large foreign groups that invest in Sweden that we want to encourage to invest their money here in Sweden and not in any other part of the world. So we can have increased prosperity here. I do not think this has been the intention of the government, but again it is probably a result of carelessness and poor preparation because the government, which on so many points is unable to maintain the quality and standard of legislation that should be expected of the Swedish Government. Thirdly, we have comments on the fact that this is a binary deferment. Either you get a deferral of the full amount of a dividend or you don't get it at all. It may be that, for example, half the amount of a dividend may have to be set off. It is strange that the government has not given the option of choosing between the full amount or a small amount on the dividend. Once again, this is not something that the government discusses or addresses despite the fact that referrals, such as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, have pointed this out. Fourthly, and above all, it is about the timeframe. Four months after the financial year is set, a much too short and tight time frame for companies to apply for the grace period is set. It is problematic for large groups to count on. It is simply difficult to do this in four months. We would therefore like to see an extension of the grace period. Overall, this is basically a good proposal, at least in spirit. But the government has been careless, and it should have been possible to bring about substantially better legislation. Therefore, I would like to endorse the Moderate reservation so that we can overcome the carelessness caused by the government.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-293	Madam President, I would like As we have heard before, we are discussing a proposal for a deferral of coupon tax. However, something that we did not hear about here earlier is why we are standing here discussing these proposals at all. This is a judgment of the European Court of Justice in a case in France, where the Court found that France's corresponding rules are contrary to EU law. It is therefore a matter of the procedure of levying withholding tax on dividends to non-resident companies in the Member State of origin, while the distribution to companies resident in the State of origin is a basis for corporation tax, provided that the resident company has shown a surplus in the tax year in question. That is how the verdict is described. We have just heard a description of what this is all about. But I was going to tell you that it is also about there being no difference between whether the dividend from one company in Sweden is made to another company in Sweden or to a company that does not exist in Sweden, but in an EU country or other country that Sweden has an agreement with. So this is what this is all about. Normally it is the taxpayer who receives the dividend, but since this is a withholding tax, the coupon tax is paid instead by the company making the dividend. It is this procedure that we are now introducing an exception to in the coupon tax law. Technically, it will be possible for a company to receive a refund from the Tax Agency if it applies for a deferral and can demonstrate that it meets the requirements of the coupon tax on dividends for which there is scope after a period of grace has been granted. We heard this described as carelessness and poor preparation of the Moderate here in the speaker's chair a short while ago. In the Moderate exercise, however, they acknowledge that this is technically complex matter and that the time to get it in place has been rather short. It sounds a little different, you might say, than it sounds here when you're about to give a fire speech. The starting point for all of us is to ensure that tax legislation is compatible with EU law. This means that taxable companies should only pay coupon tax when they go in surplus, and this deferment system ensures that we comply with this. Companies with a surplus must of course pay the same tax anyway. The Swedish rules for coupon tax have been in place since 1943, and in essence they look the same now as they did then. It is therefore a procedure that has worked and has not been seen as particularly necessary to change by any government since then. However, the Swedish rules look basically like the French, which the European Court of Justice ruled out, which means that we have to make these changes. On the other hand, there is no reason to change more than necessary laws that everyone has considered to work otherwise. Madam President, I would like Our assessment, therefore, is that the changes that are being made today are fully sufficient to meet the requirements of EU law for free movement, which are essentially concerned, and that no further changes need be made today. Having said that, we naturally assume that the government does the necessary follow-up and follow-up, as it should be and as it always works. If something needs to change due to future interpretations by authorities or other things, we assume that the government will return to the Riksdag when and if it becomes relevant. I support the proposal in the bill and reject the Moderate reservation.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-302	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Government proposal 2019/ 20:32 Tax on waste incineration. The proposal proposes the introduction of a new excise duty on waste incinerated. During 2020 the tax rate is proposed to be SEK 75 per tonne of waste, which will increase to SEK 100 in 2021 and SEK 125 in 2022. The proposal is based on an agreement between the Government, the Center Party and the Liberals and has resulted from the report SOU 2017:83. The question you ask yourself when the Riksdag gets a proposal like this to decide on is how this government actually relates to the state's public investigations. In SOU 2009:12 it was noted that the investigation proposed that the tax on the incineration of household waste should be abolished without being replaced by any other tax or instrument. The justification was that the tax did not steer towards the objectives that justified its introduction. This led to the abolition of the then existing tax on waste incineration. A more up-to-date study, SOU 2017:83, shows the following: A basic rule of environmental policy governance is that instruments should be put in place as close to the source of problems as possible. A tax on the incineration of waste means that a tax is introduced at the end of the waste stream, far from the actors that create the problems, i.e. those which add dangerous chemicals that are at risk of becoming inherent in nature and contribute to the consumption of natural resources. A tax on the incineration of waste would therefore not affect decisions on product design or choice of materials to facilitate recycling, efforts to sort out certain materials, etc. Another problem is that all waste would be taxed equally heavily regardless of its environmental impact and the possibility of treatment other than incineration where it is more appropriate. ..................................................... This study also concludes that an excise duty of this kind should be directed towards the objectives that justified its introduction. In addition to Waste Sweden and similar bodies, which may be considered a party to the case, we can see that the proposal is rejected by the Konjunkturinstitutet, the Swedish Competition Authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Trade and Industry Board, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Forest Industries Agency, the Swedish Energy Agency, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. The reason is stated to be that a waste tax is not an effective instrument to contribute cost-effectively to meeting the climate, energy and waste policy objectives. Companies operating waste incineration plants will not be able to transfer a waste incineration tax to the reception fees. In addition, a waste incineration tax does not therefore have the required steering effect. This, Madam President, is therefore a proposal which is presented against better knowledge. The main effect of the proposal will be to transfer financial resources from the operators who burn waste, essentially municipally owned companies, to the State. Thus, municipally-owned companies may be allowed to transfer their profits, which the municipalities would need for their welfare, to the state rather than the state, on the contrary, transferring resources to the welfare of the municipalities. In 2020, the sum for this is estimated to amount to half a billion kronor on an annual basis. It is undeniably an odd focus on politics at a time when the state is doing relatively well while the local government sector is being pushed quite hard. Of course, it is also possible to deal with this increased charge by transferring the tax burden to the end customer. However, even if this is done, in practice only one charge has been passed on to households who often do not have an alternative to energy sources, also without affecting the producers of waste. The steering effect is therefore likely to be minimal or non-existent. Another effect if energy companies raise waste reception fees is that it should affect foreign customers who send waste to Sweden. The Swedish democrats, of course, do not represent the energy companies' foreign customers, but if the alternative is landfill, we see the result here as counterproductive from an environmental perspective. If waste incineration decreases and landfill increases, energy recovery from waste will decrease, which is likely to lead to an increased need for oil or other fossil fuels, if not in Sweden, at least in other countries. The most likely thing, however, is that energy companies are forced to cope with the increase in expenditure through a lower net result, i.e. through lower profits or higher indebtedness. In addition, energy companies in Sweden are often very environmentally aware and are constantly working to improve their environmental performance in different ways. With this tax, there will ultimately be less money for new environmental investments, given that the levy will not be compensated by increased revenues or fees. Madam President, I would like As I said, taxation on the incineration of waste has been tried before, without achieving the desired environmental effect. Nothing has emerged during the discussion of the bill that rationally argues that the outcome would be different this time, quite the contrary. Nor can it be demonstrated that the bill leads to the polluter paying. Thus, the tax on waste incineration is essentially nothing more than an unobtrusive way of strengthening the state's finances at the expense of the welfare of municipalities without achieving the desired environmental impact. That is why, Madam President, I support our reservation on this matter.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-315	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. This proposal concerns the introduction of a tax of SEK 125 per tonne of waste. It will not start at that level, it will escalate. By 2020 it is 75 SEK, 2021 it is 100 SEK and so on. This is based on an agreement between the government, the Center and the Liberals. There are some exceptions in the proposal on waste incineration tax. The first is a deduction for waste taken out of an incineration plant and used in other ways. Another exception concerns biofuels, hazardous waste, animal by-products and the production of materials, which can be done in an incineration plant, in whole or in part.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-318	A special investigator has looked at the issue of waste incineration tax. The investigation was called Burning Treasures. The proposal was not to introduce such a tax on incineration. There are also criticisms from consultation bodies, which say that one is at the last stage of the chain and that one should be able to go earlier into the product's life cycle. The Law Council believes that it will need to be further elucidated if the law has achieved its purpose. It is, in fact, a recommendation to the government: if you implement this, you must evaluate and ensure that it achieves its purpose. The background is that we are committed to having no net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045 at the latest. We shall also have resource-efficient and non-toxic waste management. The policy of this tax will only have effect in the long term. However, if we are to meet the climate targets, we must have both short-term and long-term measures. One example is plastic. There are plastics that could be recycled. The fact that these plastics are burned is not compatible with our climate goals or the objective of the circular economy, i.e. that you should reuse as much as possible. It is clear that other instruments can also be introduced. We have absolutely nothing against this – quite the contrary. I think we have to do a great deal in a very many areas if we are to achieve the climate targets. The way things are now, we're behind. So we must do more. When it comes to concerns about negative effects, the government has promised to follow up the law early, to see if it has had the desired effect. If it didn't get it, you can make changes. It is impossible to predict fully in advance the effect it will have. We only know that when it has been introduced. There may be both positive and negative effects, and then you have to weigh them against each other. The government believes that what it intends to be the positive effects will consider the negative ones. It is not in this way that all the referral bodies of the investigation reject proposals for the introduction of taxes on waste incineration. There are also those who support it. The Nature Conservation Association, which works a lot for nature and has great knowledge, advocates this. It is believed that this could reduce the import of waste. This would mean that all fossil combustion would be taxed equally. This would mean putting the conditions of competition for biofuels and wastes on an equal footing with fuel. It could also make composting and digestion of biological waste more competitive compared to waste incineration. Sweden's Åkeri company believes that a waste incineration tax is an important instrument to stimulate increased recycling. As regards how the investigation could arrive at that result, we shall consider that the EU ETS has changed since the investigation presented its proposal. For example, the policy has been tightened up so that what we do nationally in Sweden can have a greater impact on the entire EU level. In the past, there was a risk that what we were doing here would not have a full effect. One should be able to cancel allowances, among other things. This could have an impact on EU-wide emissions. EU policies have also been strengthened with regard to landfills of waste. You shouldn't have that. This reduces the risk of landfill in other countries, as a result of this proposal. What is fundamental is that we must now make efforts at all stages of the product chain and life cycle. Given how climate change is raging, we cannot shy away from the long-term proposals that will only have a long-term impact. The latest clarification is that we have not had this much carbon dioxide in the atmosphere in 3 million years. So it's been 3 million years since we were at this level. Then it was several degrees warmer, and the water levels were many meters higher than today. It shows that something is very wrong. The overwhelming majority of scientists also agree that it is our emissions that cause climate change and that we must act. Here in Sweden we have also seen climate change. Although we are far from being the country most affected, we too have felt it in the form of storms, floods, fires and droughts. It has hit agriculture hard, it has hit other entrepreneurs hard and it has hit individuals hard – especially the elderly and the sick, who find it difficult to handle, for example, heat waves. Perhaps this is just a first, little look at what climate change means. It could get worse in the future. The flood in Malmö 2014 I experienced. The bike tunnels were full of water. So it went all the way up. Many cellars and even houses were filled with water. This led to enormous costs, which we still see the traces of. Both traders and private individuals were extremely hard hit. Such floods are often thought to come in the future if we do not counteract climate change. It therefore involves not only human suffering, but also enormous costs. I therefore believe that climate action should be seen not only as a cost but also as an investment. We must do our part in Sweden and will of course also work to ensure that others do their parts. But it is important that we do what we can to stop climate change.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-332	Madam President, I would like It's good to learn from your own mistakes. But it's always better to learn from others. The introduction of a tax on waste incineration is definitely a mistake that should not be repeated. The idea has already been tested, between 2006 and 2010, as part of the green tax shift. The tax turned out to have virtually no steering effects. It was simply a poor failure. The name waste incineration, which is consistently used, is also misleading. In reality, it is about energy recovery and taxes on energy recovery. It is important to be able to distinguish between thermal destruction of waste and energy recovery. It doesn't seem like the government does. In principle, all the bodies have sawed the proposal for a number of reasons. One of these is that the tax should not be paid by those who supply the waste but by those who take care of the waste. It is waste that in the vast majority of cases cannot be handled in any other way. The tax cannot be passed on to those who may affect the origin and sorting of the waste. It therefore goes completely against the principle of polluter pays. In the end, it is consumers of district heating who pay, although district heat produced by energy recovery should be one of the more climate-smart heating methods. According to the Government, the purpose of the tax is that Sweden should take the lead in the field of environment and climate and become the first fossil-free welfare country. In reality, however, the tax gives completely opposite signals of direction. As the tax is designed, energy recovery is rewarded by lighter materials with high energy content, such as fossil plastics, instead of renewable materials with low energy content and low weight, such as wood and paper. As the tax is paid per tonne of waste and the idea of cogeneration companies is to sell energy, they will choose materials that provide the lowest cost per megawatt hour. This means that the tax will promote the combustion of materials that produce high greenhouse gas emissions. It is totally counterproductive, and it goes against any common sense, to force cogeneration companies to increase their emissions. Madam President, I would like In Europe, there is a large shortage of energy recovery capacity, which means that waste is instead placed in landfills which are the only local alternatives for waste materials that cannot be recycled. What's going on in the landfills? A lot of different processes, one more environmentally dangerous than the other. The landfills leak methane, which is much more dangerous than carbon dioxide. They also increase the risk of fires, which have a very high environmental impact. Energy recovery of foreign waste has led to one of Sweden's largest export successes of environmental technology, in terms of both economics and environmental benefits. To think that a new tax will increase recycling is wrong. Many products simply cannot be recycled, such as diapers, other hygiene products, toys and certain textiles. These must go to energy recovery or waste incineration, as the government calls it. When it becomes more expensive for energy recovery in Sweden, other countries will take over shares in the waste management market. Sweden will then lose important revenue. Waste will be managed almost exclusively in a less environmentally friendly and climate friendly manner. As if this was not enough, the waste incineration tax will exacerbate the electricity crisis in Skåne and other parts of the country. If the waste incineration tax makes district heating more expensive, some customers will instead choose electric heat pumps, which will burden the already heavily charged electricity system even more. We already have a lack of impact, although representatives of the government are consistently trying to deny this. With more district heat, however, the risk of power shortages is reduced because electricity and district heat are produced simultaneously in Sweden in a unique energy efficient combination. Madam President, I would like The best way to reduce the amount of waste is to prevent it from occurring. This is best done by using recyclable materials. Production and consumption management is much more effective than in the final stage of energy recovery. Madam President, I would like If the government really cares about the environment, it should stop engaging in symbolic politics. It will attack the unrecoverable waste, preferably before it has occurred. It shall not target the waste that becomes energy in plants with the highest energy efficiency and lowest emissions worldwide.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-343	Madam President, I would like The work on a green tax shift initiated by the Alliance government is now continuing after several years of net increases in the tax area of jobs and entrepreneurship alone. The budget endorsed by the Center Party focuses on the climate, measures for living rural areas and more effective job creation. It is also a budget that lowers the tax by SEK 13 billion. The Center Party has pushed through significant changes in economic policy that strengthen the whole country for the future. Some of the tax cuts are part of the green tax shift. Taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship are falling while environmentally and climate-damaging activities pay more in taxes. Madam President, I would like Income taxes will be reduced next year. On the one hand, marginal taxes have been reduced, which for a long time have placed Sweden at a not at all very flattering global peak. On the one hand, income taxes are reduced for those living in rural areas. In Sweden, people should be able to live and work regardless of where in the country they live. We have been critical of the unfairly high tax burden that has hit people in the north and west of Sweden in particular. As a result, far too many young people have chosen to move from the small municipalities in these areas. Now the proposal to reduce taxes in selected areas is becoming a reality in order to close the growing tax gap between country and city. We have pushed for a reduction in employers' contributions for the smallest companies through an initial deduction. It will therefore be cheaper for companies to hire new entrants to the labour market. This will be realised after the end of the year. Madam President, I would like The green tax shift needs to continue. It is good to increase taxes on garbage and reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. The proposal on waste incineration tax makes both new investments and reinvestments in waste incineration capacity less profitable. This will lead to a reduction in waste incineration capacity in Sweden after 2030. This in turn is expected to break the trend of increased emissions as a result of increasing waste incineration capacity. Society cannot depend on increasing the amount of waste. That's going the wrong way. District heating plants have invested in extremely large boilers, and it is a problem that increased amounts of waste have been taken into account. Of course we have to go the other way. We should remember that the tax on waste incineration is a tax on waste fuel, which is currently fiscally advantageous compared to other fossil fuels. Unlike fossil fuels, the waste fuel is entirely tax-free. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the proposal in the Committee on Taxation's report No 12 on waste incineration.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-350	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has a special opinion in the report. Like a number of consultation bodies, we believe that measures higher up in the waste hierarchy are needed. A tax on waste incineration is therefore insufficient and should be followed urgently by instruments that reduce the generation of waste and increase reuse and recycling. However, like the government, we see a long-term value for the environment and climate with a tax on waste incineration. Among other things, we need to increase recycling. Today, nearly half of Swedish household waste is incinerated. In addition, even more is incinerated by the waste we import. We simply need to reduce the import of waste for incineration. The capacity of Swedish waste incineration plants exceeds the availability of waste. Therefore, significant quantities are imported, mainly from Norway, the United Kingdom and Ireland. It is unsustainable, and it is a cheap solution for the exporting countries. A tax on waste incineration in Sweden would increase the incentives in these importing countries to do something about their own waste problems. Legislation in place in the EU on waste has already been tightened up in the past. It meant that waste that might not be incinerated in Sweden would not only be disposed of in the way previously possible under the EU acquis. We therefore support the proposal.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-353	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats respect the agreements that we have in Parliament for how we make decisions on the state budget. Last week our draft budget fell. I have therefore abstained from taking part in the committee's decision on this issue. But we have a special opinion. Our draft budget does not introduce the waste incineration tax next year, as the January parties do. There are good reasons not to do so because several referral bodies are very critical of the introduction of this tax. The rapid introduction of the tax also means that the operators present in the industry are given very little time to adapt their activities. There are only a few months between decisions and implementation, and that is very regrettable. The Christian Democrats are fundamentally in favour of tax changes that mean lower taxes on labour and entrepreneurship and higher taxes on consumption, not least harmful consumption. We need lower taxes in Sweden in general, but we also need to change what is taxed. And when it comes to environmental taxes, it is extremely important that taxes are designed in a way that actually has the effects we want. There are several examples of so-called environmental taxes that do not have an effect or that have completely wrong effects. This points out several consultation bodies in this case concerning this tax. The risk is that confidence in policy and acceptance of environmental taxes will decline. It serves neither society nor the environment – quite the contrary. But, as I said, we respect the agreements we have on how we decide on the budget, and with the fall of our draft budget, I have abstained from taking part in decisions on this issue.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-357	Madam President, I would like There has been talk in the debate that the introduction of a tax on waste incineration would take place too quickly. But this is introduced in the same way as always. These are referral procedures, to which reference has been made here before. Madam President, I would like If we are to talk about things that go quickly, is it not more reasonable to talk about climate change first? They concern us people whether we are entrepreneurs, schoolchildren or members of parliament and whether we live in Sweden or in any other part of the world. If something goes so fast and is so dangerous that we should be seriously concerned, it is not the introduction of a waste incineration tax but climate change, which leads to people's freedom being restricted around the world. It will be even more restricted here in Sweden. It's about drought. It's about flooding. It's about us seeing war breaking out over resources. It is a question of changing our whole society in order to emit less exhaust gases and less greenhouse gases and to cope with the climate change that we are facing. It is urgent, and one step is to introduce a tax on waste incineration. Madam President, I would like I am proud that we have a budget in which we are proactively starting work on a green tax shift, where we are raising taxes on things that are bad for the climate and lowering taxes on things that do not harm the climate, such as going to work or doing business. This is a budget that includes strong reductions in taxes on labour. This means that we need to have certain tax increases for things that are bad for the climate. It is a sound economic policy, and it is a sound climate policy. Madam President, I would like There are two things that are bad about waste incineration. One is that it is waste. It is clear that waste and waste must be seen more as resources. Then you can use waste and debris to create energy. It can be a better way than having big piles and pits. But even better it is to have a greater resource recovery, to use things several times and to use the resources that we have several times in a longer cycle. It is simply a question of recycling more. It is also a consequence of this tax. Incineration is the second thing that is bad about waste incineration. Combustion is bad because it creates greenhouse gases. It is clear that we must essentially ask ourselves the question: do we have the right to emit as much greenhouse gases as we humans have done all these years? Is it right that we do it? I don't think so. I think it will be too expensive for future generations. It is also the case that there is too much cost for people in other parts of the world who have not been able to have our way of life and who have not been able to create as large garbage mountains with things as they no longer want. Madam President, I would like A tax on waste incineration is a sound climate policy. A good green tax shift means that we can reduce tax even more on labour. This gives us more and better recycling. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that today in this House we are taking another step together towards a greener planet and more equal taxation in this country.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-365	Madam President, I would like Today it costs nothing to burn up fully intact material, which could have given new life to products and become part of a circular economy. It is more profitable to burn up than to reuse. In order to complete the waste hierarchy that has been put through in this House, there must also be financial incentives, which are currently lacking, partly because the Moderates ensured that the incineration tax was abolished in 2010. Since then, waste incineration and waste imports have increased as more combined heat and power plants that take care of waste fuel have been built. It is also the case that other countries find it cheaper to export garbage to Sweden than to invest in their own solutions. The soups are sold as fuel to Sweden. It is win – win for a linear economy but lose – lose if we want to move to a circular economy. But it is still a business that Sweden has benefited from. In 2014, the country's combined heat and power plant received SEK 800 million to burn up other countries' garbage. Madam President, I would like In 2016, about 1.3 million tonnes of garbage were imported into Sweden, of which 12 1⁄2 percent consisted of plastic. Much of the plastic could have been used again but instead becomes district heating. About half of the imported waste comes from Norway. The other half comes from the UK and Ireland. The garbage is mostly shipped here. But they are also transported by car on the roads. Instead of importing garbage from other countries, we should export knowledge and systems to other countries that need solutions more than we need money. Madam President, I would like Of course, soups like fuel also emit carbon dioxide, but unlike other fuels, it has been tax-free. That's completely unreasonable. It's about time we adjusted it. The proposal to be introduced now is SEK 75 per tonne of waste from 2020. Then it will be escalated by SEK 25 per year to 2022. This is part of the green tax shift that the Green Party has been fighting for and which is simply about it being costing when we drain the planet's borders, but it should be profitable and cheap to operate within the planet's borders. This is a clear signal from the policy that says that waste should be recycled and not incinerated. If we are to move to a circular economy within what the planet can handle, it must cost to burn up garbage. That is why, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-370	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rebecka Le Moine, for your speech. I have some questions. The first is that Sweden has chosen on its own initiative to include cogeneration in the EU ETS, the European Emissions Trading System. This means that Swedish cogeneration companies must buy emission allowances to obtain energy recovery waste with fossil content. At the same time, the government sends a signal through the waste incineration tax in the opposite direction: that it is much better to burn waste with high plastic content because that waste is lighter and has higher energy content. In this way, the waste incineration tax becomes a reverse CO2 tax, which certainly cannot be the political objective. I wonder if Rebecka Le Moine can explain how you've been thinking.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-373	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Boriana Åberg! The ETS does indeed exist, but that is not the only way to try to carry out a green tax shift. We need complementary measures, and that is what we are going to do too. The signal that Boriana Åberg interprets can stand for her because everything is not just about price per kilo. We have an awakening. People are opting out of what is least environmentally friendly, and it will play a role in how companies choose to act. I therefore believe that few companies will come forward with the fact that they only want to burn up plastic that could otherwise have been recycled. I think it's a little dystopian of what reality looks like. It is not just about energy content, it is about what its content and significance is for the environment. I think we are quite united in this House that we need to reduce emissions, and that is something that we are committed to doing by 2045. For us to be able to finish it, we need to find other ways to make a living than to burn garbage.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-376	Madam President, I would like That is right: we agree in this House that we must reduce emissions. That is why we are going to do it with effective instruments. We should not punish those who take care of the waste without those who produce it. When it comes to painting a dystopian picture, I would like to say that Rebecka Le Moine stands for a very utopian view that all waste can be recycled. But, for example, diapers, which account for a large part of the garbage mountain, cannot be recycled or reused. So we need energy recovery, and it is wrong to tax it. The best way to reduce CO2 emissions is, of course, to use nuclear power, which is by far the most environmentally friendly way. It has absolutely no CO2 emissions.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-379	Madam President, I would like We'll have to have the nuclear debate another time. We don't have time for that in two minutes. I do not share the view that this is only about energy recovery. Diapers are one example, but, as we know, 12.5 per cent of what is imported from plastics that could definitely have been part of a circular economy – if there were not economic incentives to indicate that it becomes more profitable to burn it and sell it as district heat than to include it once more in a circular economy. It is true that we have to make demands on all the steps in the waste stairway. It should not be profitable to continue building us into a linear economy. That is why we really need to implement the ECO Directive, the Ecodesign Directive, which is an EU directive, which hopefully will make sure that we do not need energy re-uses that could have been recycled. I think that's where we differ in the view of what kinds of garbage we actually burn. It is not just a question of energy recovery, but we must relate to the waste hierarchy and actually reuse the materials that can be reused. It is much more environmentally smart to include it one or more more times in the production cycle.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-383	Madam President, I would like When people complained that they were so poor that they couldn't afford to buy bread, French Queen Marie Antoinette is supposed to say, "Why don't they eat cakes?" .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Whether the quote is genuine or fictional, it is a frightening example of blindness to reality – a blindness that unfortunately is not typical of the 18th century alone. To this day, there are those in power who find it difficult to understand the situation of ordinary people. It is those in power who have high ideals but who will always realize them at someone else's expense. There's someone else to make the sacrifices. I'll try to give you a picture of who this is. Someone else. It's the single mother Emma, who has 20 miles from home to work. She gets up early in the morning to leave the children in preschool. In the afternoon, she is the last to pick up her children in front of the staff's meaningful gaze. She struggles hard to get her life together, and the gasoline car is not just one of her few possessions but absolutely necessary for her and her children. She is definitely not a climate villain and should not, of course, be punished. Nor is the industrial worker Ivan, who has 60 miles [100 km] of easy way to work, a climate villain. It is also not Ingrid who is wheelchair-borne and cannot use public transport during rush hour or those who live in Västerbotten's hinterland and have 26 mil to the hospital, 40 km to the store and 100 km to the bank, easy way. Driving is by no means a luxury. It is a necessity for many, and it is our damned duty to make it possible for people to afford it for their lives to work and for Sweden to be able to function and live. For many years we have had a development where the service has left the small towns. There's no bank, no health center, no school. Public transport is not sufficiently developed and in certain situations, times and situations will never be an option. It is also utopian to believe that collective solutions that suit everyone are possible. I know what I'm talking about. I grew up in a communist dictatorship and have experienced it for real. There the individual's desires and freedom were subordinate to the ideas of the "enlightened elite" about what society would look like. There, as in today's Sweden, the elite assumed that people's thinking ability was limited. This approach leads to comparisons such as Isabella Lövin's speech that the fuel tax increase corresponds to a quarter of pizza. We Moderates want petrol and diesel to be one crown cheaper per litre at the pump. It is not that we do not protect the environment or that we do not understand the importance of economic instruments. It is about seeing people's situation and understanding their problems in everyday life. It cannot have escaped anyone that there is a new peoples' movement, the petrol tax uprising 2.0, which in a few months has gathered more than half a million people. They are all very upset, anxious and anxious about how their everyday life should work when fuel prices are rising and rising. We understand them, and we agree that the increases must stop. The conditions for people to use the car in everyday life are an extremely important issue of freedom. The car enables us to live the life we want, to live where we want, to take the jobs that suit us – through which we also contribute to the common, even though the jobs are not always right where we live. But freedom has never been important to socialist politicians. Therefore, it is logical that those with beaks and claws fight the car. It is clear that emissions from fossil fuels must be reduced. But it must not be done in such a way as to put cities against land. Climate policy should be effective, but it should also take into account the different living conditions in different parts of the country. Otherwise, it will lack support. Because of the fuel tax, a disproportionate and heavy burden has been placed on individuals who depend on the car. Madam President, I would like Throughout the development of civilization, man has striven to get better, and he has succeeded quite well through the millennia. By constantly harnessing the innovation power available and exploiting new technological achievements, our prosperity has increased significantly, not least in the last century. One of these crucial inventions is the car. It develops and is there every day. It becomes more comfortable, safer and, above all, more environmentally friendly. Gas and diesel consumption is decreasing and other more environmentally friendly forms of energy are gradually replacing fossil fuels. But, of course, conversion takes time. The entire fossil fleet cannot be replaced overnight, and not everyone can actually afford to buy a brand new electric car. They get to manage their daily lives using their petrol and diesel cars for a few more years. Indeed, the anti-development attitude that drives the left-wing bloc on this issue is dangerous to our society. One thing is for sure: U tan car stops Sweden. Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-399	Madam President, I would like Every year we see new tax increases on petrol. In addition, the government has now reintroduced the automatic indexation of tax increases on fuels, which practically means that with the current government we do not necessarily need to discuss tax increases on fuels in this House, but the tax will automatically be increased anyway. On the contrary, we will have to discuss possible departures from the automatic increase, as we are doing here today. It is then referred to as an apparently reduced tax on fuel. It is a well-known fact, Madam President, that Sweden on the surface is Europe's fifth largest country, while it is the second most sparsely populated country, only the kind of Finland. This combination means, for natural reasons, that public transport is not a possible option for most Swedes when they are going to get to and from work, when they are going to take their children to their leisure activities or when they are going to visit relatives and friends. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, more than two thirds of all households have access to a car. At the same time, according to one survey, almost every other Swedish citizen would find it very difficult to stay in his or her current home if he or she did not have access to a car. The car is therefore absolutely necessary for the whole of Sweden to live. Today we are debating precisely what the Government proposal describes as a reduced tax on fuel. This is a particularly surprising heading in view of the fact that the proposal on the last line nevertheless entails an increase in taxes on fuel. It also poses a dilemma when writing a follow-up motion on the Government's proposal. Are you opposed to the title or content? Because when you read what it says in the bill, it is clear that the sum of the tax on fuel is increasing. On p. 4 of the Government proposal, the current wording states that for petrol in environmental class 1 the amount of tax is SEK 6.57 per litre. On p. 6 it is then stated in a proposed wording for the same petrol that the amount of tax is SEK 6.69. If I haven't got my math completely wrong, it's an increase in taxes by 12 cents. Nevertheless, Madam President, the text on Parliament's website is that there should be a yes to the proposal for a reduced tax on fuel. It all reminds me of a passage in the famous 1984 novel by George Orwell, thanking Big Brother, that is, the state, for increasing the chocolate ration to the people despite its de facto decline. It is a kind of reality check that is called double thought in the New Language book. However, whatever you call it, the path from an acceptable taxation of fuels to an unacceptable one consists of small steps. Of course, perspectives have been shifted when a smaller increase is called a reduction. The measure should also be seen in a broader perspective where you repeatedly, a little at a time, twist the thumb screws for those who have the audacity to live a little outside the larger city but who still need transport in their everyday lives. In addition to tax on your income, you pay a higher vehicle tax with a bonus – malus as well as an increasing fuel tax and perhaps soon tolls. Firstly, this development must be broken by saying no to small and insignificant increases – even the increases that the government chooses to call reductions. Secondly, Madam President, measures need to be taken to actually reduce the tax on fuel. The Swedish Democrats present in their budget a reduction in petrol tax of SEK 1 per litre, which means a reduction of SEK 1.13 relative to the government's budget bill. However, that is not the whole picture. We also want to reform the so-called reduction obligation, that is to say, the requirement to involve biofuels, as shown in our budgetary motion. What is it then that we are doing in Sweden when we involve more and more biofuels? In addition to the fact that in principle only Sweden and Finland are doing this, the product becomes more expensive at a pump, which is also evident in the government's own communication. At the same time, some form of environmental impact is expected, however, which is questionable because it leads to increased demand for biofuels, directly or indirectly, and also leads to increased demand for biofuels from agricultural raw materials. In a system perspective, greenhouse gas emissions do not decrease, making it difficult to refer to sustainability if agricultural land will increasingly be used to grow fuel products instead of food. It may also be added that most of the Swedish need for biofuels today is mainly covered by imported biofuels. Madam President, I would like That's all you can say about the government bill right now. Swedish fuel policy needs a major move, which in a perfect world would mean that the parliament starts by rejecting the government's increase in fuel tax even though it is called a reduction. The life puzzle for families outside the urban areas that depend on the car is becoming increasingly difficult and more expensive to get together. The costs for businesses are increasing, leading to a loss of competitiveness. In addition, it affects companies' ability to recruit the right and necessary skills if commuting becomes too expensive, which ultimately leads to the risk of job losses in rural areas. Of course, motorism should pay its fair share of emissions. However, CO2 emissions from passenger car traffic have decreased by 14% since 2006, despite increased traffic, and the fuel consumption of new cars has decreased by more than 30% over the same period. We also see an ongoing technological shift in the Swedish vehicle fleet that will not stop even with reduced fuel tax. Madam President, I would like Today, Sweden's motorists are heavily overtaxed. Sweden already has one of the world's highest fuel taxes at the same time as it is a large and sparsely populated country. More than 60 per cent of the price of petrol is already pure tax, and Swedish motorists pay about the same amount of billions to the Treasury. I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2, which means that we should not increase the tax on fuel. If our reservation falls, we will support the Moderate reservation 1 under the same paragraph.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-417	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal. I would like to begin by clarifying what this proposal actually means: for CO2 tax a reduction of 8 øre per litre on petrol and 3 øre per litre on diesel and for energy tax a reduction of 5 øre per litre on petrol and 6.3 øre per litre on diesel. This starts on 1 January 2020. The background to this is that we have had an indexation of CO2 and energy taxes since 1994. This means listing them to compensate for inflation. Otherwise inflation will eat them up, which in reality would mean a reduction. Since 2016, there has also been a list of bnp, i.e. that wage developments have also been taken into account. It is because we have seen that the environmental impact would disappear if we did not take this into account. Then income rises, and it gets smaller and smaller that goes to taxes. Since 2018, there has been a reduction obligation for biofuels in petrol and diesel. This means mixing biofuels in petrol and diesel because it is better for the climate in the long term. The goal is for us to have sustainable biofuels and a fossil-free vehicle fleet. As the share of biomass increases – and it will gradually do so, because the goal is to replace petrol and diesel – we will also change the CO2 tax and the energy tax to prevent a price increase. That is what we are doing in this proposal; that is what this reduction means. At the same time, since we have had a list to compensate for inflation, but also for wage increases, the tax has actually become 25 cents per litre of petrol. In the proposal we reduce it to 13 cents. So there's still 13 cents left. It's about gas. Diesel is 17.5 øre. Left after that decrease will be 9.3 cents. Sure, it is a little higher than before, but not taking inflation into account would actually mean a reduction. This also means that the increase that we have had since 2016 – where we have also taken into account the development of the bnp, i.e. wage increases – is de facto eliminated. That is another method of calculation, but the consequence is that there is no increase. It is because we now have biomass to mix in. That's where we want to end up. The goal is not that it should be expensive, but that it should be climate-friendly – and as cheap as possible. But we cannot continue with oil dependence, because it is both climate dangerous and expensive. What is interesting is that we have made a freeze on the bnp count, i.e. in relation to wage developments. We have been doing this for six months, from 1 July to the last December of this year, so that freeze is taking place right now. The proposal means that in practice this freeze will continue even if it is a different basis for calculation. It was such a freeze that the Moderates demanded here the last time we discussed this. Then the proposal for a freeze went through, so this is actually a continuation of it – but not because we are eliminating the bnp count, but because the biomass is increasing. There will be a tax reduction as a result. What we decide on here reduces government revenue by SEK 900 million, but we think it is worth that cost. It is not an end in itself to levy taxes on fuels. On the other hand, it is important to steer towards climate-friendly alternatives. If we look at the price of fuel – the price of petrol, as they say, but that also applies to diesel – we see that it is very dependent on what is happening in the world around us. For example, when it was troubled in Venezuela and Libya and Opec reduced their supply, we saw increases in oil prices affecting the price here at home. When it comes to switching away from fossil fuels, it is also a way of saving money because we see that oil prices are swinging sharply but have also become higher over time. That's why we can hit two birds with one stone if we get away from the oil addiction. We are making a contribution to the climate, and we can reduce fuel costs in the long term. We should move more towards things that we can control. Oil we cannot control; we depend only on it. Electricity and forest waste are things that we can control and also produce at home. That is the way we must go, and we are now taking that step with increased biomass – the reduction obligation, as it is called. This is a dangerous development we have with oil dependence. We have not only price rises that affect us here at home but also a weak crown. This means that when we import it becomes more expensive for that reason alone, so we have two reasons to invest more in domestic production. The price of oil can fluctuate very much. An example in the near future was when the price was raised by 1.50 in just three months. And in the future, the demand for oil may increase. It is a finite resource that reduces while disturbances make supply worse. Then we can see even greater price increases. That's exactly what we need to get away from. That is why we must get away from oil dependence. The cars have become more fuel-efficient. We must continue along this path, because then it will be both cheaper to refuel and less oil dependence. We already produce Swedish electricity. Sales of electric cars have also increased, and we also have good conditions for our own biofuels in agriculture and forestry, which we must continue to work on. The fundamental thing is the climate. This is not just about oil dependence, it is about the consequences for all of us being fatal if we do nothing. We have the target of reducing emissions by 70% by 2030. We are halfway to that goal, that is, we have to do about twice as much to have a chance to achieve it. Losing momentum when it comes to getting away from oil dependence will not work with that view. Nor will it have a positive impact on fuel prices for the individual. As far as rural areas are concerned, I think we need to focus more on helping those who have long distances, because this strikes the whole country. But even in cities, where you have short distances and good public transport, there is a risk that the price of petrol will steer towards driving more cars on oil. I believe more in special orientations. One example that comes now is a rural deduction. There are 850 000 people in Sweden who receive an average of 1 600 SEK more. Then you go directly to a group that has long distances and provides some compensation for costs. The new system of cost compensation between municipalities also benefits rural areas, so it is also compensation. The tax reform to be implemented in the future is, among other things, about green tax shifting and benefits both the climate and, for example, the labour market. We shall also reduce the economic gap, and this is an important instrument for those people who, due to poor public transport and long distances, cannot be without a car but do not have much money. Of course, we will also make investments in welfare and in municipalities and county councils. We are making such an effort in this budget, but we must do much more in the future. I believe more in that kind of effort. As far as travel expenses are concerned, there has been a proposal. The deduction should be distance-based so that you get more the longer the distance you commute to work, for example. This is not a concrete proposal yet, but we have an investigation proposal. The government is looking at what the referrals have said. The deduction should be independent of the means of transport, which is good for the climate, but it also applies if you drive. This does not in any way exclude drivers. The proposal also provides for an addendum for cases where there is no functioning public transport or where it takes an extremely long time by public transport than by car. So some things have been introduced, and we want to work more to compensate the sparsely populated areas. But basically it is about getting away from oil dependence, and that is the greatest service we can do to those who depend on the car. It will affect the price in the future. There have already been large increases – with SEK 1 or 2 – and we can see more of it in the future. I believe that this is the most important thing for the future, for both price and climate.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-443	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for your speech. I was given some explanation for the increase in fuel tax that is now taking place to compensate for inflation so that there is no reduction. There are other measures, too, where there has been a reduction for a long time. The deduction of 18.50 for journeys to and from work has remained still for a very long time, which in practice means a reduction. As regards oil dependence, which Mr Larsson wants to get rid of, when you look at the reduction obligation and the involvement of biofuels, you see that between 80 and 90 % of biofuels are imported and that 50 % is made up of PFAD, palm oil. This means that Swedish demand leads to continued deforestation, mainly in Indonesia and Malaysia, leading to high carbon dioxide emissions. If Sweden is to be a leading country and more are to do the same, the demand for these biofuels will be even greater, and deforestation risks becoming even more extensive in these countries.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-446	Madam President, I would like We're just at the beginning of a climate shift. It was said about that even when it came to wind and solar power and that type of energy sources: It will never be possible; it is so little; it will not be enough. And yes, it will require many energy sources, but at the same time we can see that there has actually been enormous growth in these types of energy, both in Sweden and in other countries. What is important is that one is driving this development and is always at the forefront. I am convinced that we will also be able to have indigenous biofuels. For example, we have forest waste, which could be used much more. If we really focus on our own production, I am convinced that we will achieve the goals. This also applies to electric cars – sales are increasing, and we have our own electricity. So it is not just about biofuels. It is clear that there are shortcomings in the biofuels we import from other countries, when they come from palm oil crops and so on. We shall, of course, fight against this. But I think the most dangerous thing is oil dependence, because there are only disadvantages to it and nothing positive at all. It is also a finite resource. If we see weaknesses in the way things are today, which I also think is temporary and a problem that we can overcome when we have domestic production in full, I think it is dangerous to hang on to oil dependence for that reason. The risk is that we will not only damage the climate. It will also only be more expensive and more expensive for the individual driving a car, and that is the opposite effect in relation to the one we want.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-450	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Hillevi Larsson, for your answer! I note that no major risk assessment has been carried out with regard to the use of palm oil to dilute fuels in Sweden. I also note that Mr Larsson thinks it is good that there is an exchange of the fleet for electric cars, because we have electricity. For the time being, we have electricity. We will close nuclear power plants at the turn of the year, and the question is how long we have the stable electricity supply that we have historically had. Sweden contributes approximately 0.12% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. I believe that we can do better through international climate investment and by helping where we really get the maximum exchange for our money. As far as biofuels are concerned, there are fugitive fuels such as rapeseed oil, cooking oil, fish oil and palm oil. For these land is used which could be used for food production. We also have better forms of biofuels, namely pulp production, black liquor, lignin, slaughterhouse waste and frying oil, which are ultimately carbon neutral. However, if this is to be used on a large scale in Swedish fuel production, there is a high probability that it will not be enough.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-454	Madam President, I would like What we know for sure is that oil will not be enough in a long-term perspective. It is a finite resource with rising prices and also has a very negative climate impact. We definitely have to get away from that. When it comes to food production, we fill our needs in Sweden. We don't have that problem. Of course, we will always make sure that we do. But in addition, we can have biofuels. We already have rapeseed oil, which operates buses in public transport, for example. I also believe that if we really put the whole of society in a position to have domestic production, we will achieve that goal. We will not be dependent on oil, but also on imports. Unfortunately, when we import, we cannot fully verify that everything is in the best possible way. It is therefore domestic production that applies. We can now see that not only are more people buying electric cars. It also starts more and more with fossil-free charging and refuelling. When the entire infrastructure is expanded, I think this will be attractive to people. Today, it is an obstacle to wonder what to do if you travel a long distance. Where should I stop on the road and, for example, refuel electricity? If we really invest in this, I think it will be attractive to the individual, and we will do it. We also have problems with the profitability of some farmers. The production of biofuels could be a means for agriculture to survive and raise money, but also a way for us to ensure that we meet this challenge. With regard to the incorporation of biomass, the reduction obligation is now 20% in petrol and diesel. It's supposed to increase, and eventually we'll be completely oil independent. But we are doing this step by step, and that is why we will take one step at a time. I'm sure we can do it if we go for it.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-460	Madam President, I would like Today we have to decide on a reduced tax on fuel, just as the bill is called. It is an eternal question, it may seem, sometimes with a seemingly insoluble conflict between the environment and climate on the one hand and a living countryside on the other. I intend to devote some of my speech to highlighting this issue. As always in hot debates, we are helping to understand in a sensible way what the issue is about and not to simplify or polarise the debate. I grew up in the countryside, in the middle of the forest, by the way – you know, the forest, which is one of Sweden's most important industries with the largest export net of all. All my life I have been dependent on the car, before the driver's license via my parents or acquaintances and after the driving license because there is simply no alternative to the car where I live. And I've done all that classic stuff a lot of people living in the country have done. I have taken the fight against the closure of schools, I have protested with tractor outside the municipal building, I have lost the fight about schools and I have fought for the street lights, bus lines, bus stops and to keep the mailbox and garbage canister within reasonable distance. Madam President, I would like Although we generally have a well-developed community service in our elongated country, there are inequalities for rural people: less accessible preschools and schools, poorer government services in the form of postal delivery and less broadband connectivity, even though we pay the same amount of tax. Add to that that tax revenue in a municipality often goes to green areas, street maintenance and parks, i.e. areas that are unlikely to be used by rural people to the same extent as by those living in the city. Add to this that rural people often have to bear costs that are sometimes financed through the tax bill for others, such as road associations, lighting and broadband associations. Some years ago we did at home in my village, Viker in Nora municipality, a so-called LEA analysis, local economic analysis. We ordered a statistical package from Statistics Sweden and compared income and municipal tax receipts from the approximately 400 people living in our village. Then we compared it to what was budgeted in the form of community services for the residents of the village, both the one actually carried out in the village and the one used in the city. Without it being statistically certain, I can say that the residents of Viker were strong net contributors to the municipality in terms of tax revenue. Madam President, I would like Precisely because of the inequalities that exist, the price of fuel is one of several important factors for rural conditions and development today, especially where there are no alternatives. While recognising these regional inequalities, we know that fuel is a key to the green transition that needs to take place. On the one hand, we need to shift the energy supply in general, and on the other hand, we need to get to the point where we do not depend forever on oil to refuel our cars. Oil is a finite resource, it does not exist in Sweden and it will always be expensive. But the Center Party would rather work with carrots than with whips. Therefore, in the 2020 budget, we have investments in green transport in the form of charging infrastructure, renewable fuels, night trains and, not least, improvements for forest owners, because forests have a key role in climate change. What about fuel prices? Of course they're high. The easiest thing would be for us in this House to be able to decide on the price of a pump, but that is not the case. We decide on the tax on energy and carbon dioxide, which is only part of the price at the pump. Whether we decide on 1 or 2 SEK reduction in the tax rate, we do not control the price that consumers have to pay, depending on many things, including the world market price. It may not be visible at all during refuelling. Madam President, I would like The budget for this year, which was decided in this House by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, reduced the tax on petrol temporarily, six months, but now, at the turn of the year, it returns to a list of consumer price indices plus 2%. However, the Center Party believes that with the price trend that we have to expect, it is good if tax levels can be kept down. The current proposal therefore provides for a reduction in the tax on fuels corresponding to the automatic increase that will take place. The reduction means that the price increase with KPI and bnp as a base does not affect the price at pump as much as it would otherwise have done. But is this enough to compensate for the obvious injustice between those living in the countryside and those living in the city? No, of course not. Since injustices span a wide area, they cannot be compensated solely by lower fuel prices, although this is an incredibly important factor. Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes that one way to overcome regional disparities is simply to reduce the tax burden on those living in rural areas. We want Sweden to stick together, not be drawn apart, and we can note that the other parties that have concluded the January agreement are behind the reform that the Center Party has been pursuing and which means a tax reduction for almost 900 000 people with SEK 1 650 per year. We believe that the reform directly meets those concerned, compared with a general reduction in taxation on fuels. Most cars are found in big cities, so it is no wild guess that it is the big city residents who draw the prize ticket after a fuel tax cut of 1 krona in general, although it is in the big cities that today there are actually alternatives to the car. Other investments in rural areas, as we have told you before, are broadband expansion where the copper grid is switched off, a farmer's package, night trains, as I have mentioned, and the expansion of government service offices. We believe that these reforms will lead to a better everyday life for residents and businesses in the country. Remember that it is always good for the countryside for the cities but it is not always certain that it is the opposite! This as well as a general tax review, including a green tax shift that leads to environmental taxes getting right, in order to have effect and increased legitimacy, is the most important thing we have to work with in the future. I support the committee's proposal.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-478	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Vilhelmsson, for a very vivid story about how it is to grow up in the forest kingdom, fight for the mailboxes to remain and other things! It was really touching. The Center Party has always supported the principle that the whole of Sweden should live. The countryside has been cared for, just as Helena Vilhelmsson has wanted people to want to stay, take care of the good soil and ensure that there are herds that graze and keep biodiversity alive. People should not just stay; they should prefer to settle in the countryside, have children and in every way help to counter the urbanisation trend that is going on so ruthlessly. Therefore, I would like to ask Helena Vilhelmsson: Do you think that a tax reduction of SEK 1 per litre will make it easier for the people who live in rural areas or not?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-481	Madam President, I would like I thank Boriana Åberg for the question. I am pleased that there are many in the debate here today, and also in other debates, who are actually protecting rural conditions. I am incredibly happy about that, and I think it is much more of this now than it has been before. What is important for the Center Party is that the reforms that we are doing are right and that the state's resources are being used for reforms in a way that actually has an effect. As I said in my speech, the Center Party believes that a general reduction in the tax on fuel of SEK 1 does not actually lead to the same effect as, for example, a general reduction in tax or deduction that can be done in accordance with what we propose in the budget for those living in rural areas in areas A and B. In fact, there are most cars in the metropolitan areas. They roll farthest in metropolitan areas, even though there are alternatives. A large part of what the Moderates are proposing to reduce the tax rate of 1 crown ends up in the pockets of those living in the big city. I do not really see it as a fair distribution policy in view of the real inequalities that exist between rural and urban areas.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-485	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Vilhelmsson for her reply. I do not want to put people in the countryside against people living in big cities. I think that everyone who has assessed that they need the car in their everyday lives should be able to use it, and they should be able to afford to do so. The tax cut that Helena Vilhelmsson is talking about has not made so many people happy and engaged – quite the contrary. It's about $179. Pizza economists have transferred this in number of pizzas. But we're not gonna do that. Our proposal for a tax reduction of SEK 1 per litre has received enormous public support. In the last four days alone, just over half a million people have signed up to this. All our mailboxes have been filled with emails where people in a nice and pleasurable way urge us to lower taxes in the same way as we in the Moderates suggest in our exercise. I wonder why the Center Party does not want to listen to these people.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-488	Madam President, I would like We have taken note of the e-mails, letters, calls and roll-calls that have come – just as you have done. The Center Party also met the Gas Uprising. I think we were three people from the Centre Party delegation who discussed with the Bensin Rebellion 2.0 when they were here and actually left us the signatures. I think we were the only party that had more than one Member who actually discussed with them. Again, I and the Center Party believe that the resources we use must be used properly. I'm really sorry about the rhetoric that it's about as much as pizza – pizza rhetoric – and I'm sorry about it. It reduces this problem. At the same time, it's a little interesting. If you were to do the opposite and raise the tax by $179 a month, would it be the same rhetoric about that it is just a pizza? It's not like that. We have to figure out what this is really about. For the Center Party, it is clear that a targeted tax reduction to rural people, where the problems are indeed extensive, is more effective than a general tax reduction on fuels that, frankly, benefits most those living in the city. I'm convinced of that.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-491	Madam President, I would like Member Helena Vilhelmsson really aroused my curiosity. I held my ears as she so perceptively told me that she had fought for postal services and schools in the countryside. But I did not hear that the honourable Member had fought for the preservation of the local gas stations in the countryside when it was ethanol that would save Sweden from oil dependence. The stations were required to offer ethanol as an alternative at the pump. Many sandwiches were already pulled with poor profitability, and the investments that had been required simply led to the closure of sandwiches in the countryside so that these ethanol tanks would not be buried. I am therefore simply wondering to what extent the honourable Member also fought for the stations in the countryside.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-493	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has always run the conditions for entrepreneurs. Let me give you an example. In my municipality of residence Nora we followed with keen interest how the village team in Järnboås applied for money through a Leader project. The municipality was actually good with rapid permits and so on, and it actually opened a gas station. I don't know if it's still there. But during the time of the alliance government, we provided support precisely for service points in rural areas, which applied to sandwiches and shops, in order to ensure that factors that exist around the world do not lead to service erosion and closure. Although I did not mention it in my speech, I, and we, have fought for sandwiches and happy to see when a gas station has been opened.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-494	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear that more people are looking after the countryside. I think the last car manufacturer will soon have left ethanol as a sustainable fuel. More and more ethanol car owners refuelled gasoline because it was cheaper. And if you refueled ethanol, you had problems operating the cars. But we can leave it. As the honourable Member says, we are going to use renewable fuels from domestic raw materials. At least the Center Party has traditionally been a rural party. I therefore wonder whether the honourable Member sees any risk that the indigenous forest raw material will increasingly be used precisely for the production of fuel instead of being sold to plank for the construction of houses or furniture. Does she see any risk that Swedish arable land will be used to grow raw materials for fuel instead of food?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-496	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eric Westroth, for an interesting question! Here we are approaching the heart of what this is all about. Somewhere we must all contribute to the transition. I listened a little bit to the honourable Member's line earlier. Although biofuels are not domestic today, I believe that the worst thing we can do is to back down and say that we do not require the involvement of biofuels. In my world, clear incentives, preferably cross-party and not shift when there is a change in majority, mean that demand is created. I personally, who are trained in the forest, am convinced that Swedish forest production is sufficient for boards, planks and forest raw materials for biofuels. It is not about forest waste, as someone has said before, but it is about forest fuel, i.e. wood chips, branches and tops, which should not become planks and boards anyway. As far as arable land is concerned, I share the honourable Member's concern, as it accepts a little bit of not growing food on the arable land that we have. I think we need it. But forest raw materials, together with other products, which we need to develop together with industry, I think we can see in the long term that we are turning to biofuels with a sustained profitability for both farmers and foresters.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-499	Madam President, I would like I never thought I would debate the tax committee's report No 15, the reduced tax on fuel, but it will be very exciting. Sweden must make a transition in order to become a fossil-free country, and taxation on fuel is an important tool to reduce the climate impact of motorism. But it is also a blunt tool that makes no distinction between a high-income person in the big city with good access to public transport and a low-income person in sparsely populated areas without alternatives to car. The focus should be on tackling motorism in urban areas and creating opportunities for sustainable travel, including for those with low incomes and rural housing. We therefore want to introduce financial support to enable existing cars that run on fossil fuels to run on renewable fuels, and we propose significantly increased funding to strengthen the availability of charging points for electric cars and increase the production of biogas and biofuels. With our draft budget, we also want to implement billions of dollars for an expanded and cheaper public transport system that includes the operation of village buses and service buses. We also want a new travel allowance, which does not put rural areas at a disadvantage. I am very worried, because the travel deduction investigation that Hillevi Larsson referred to actually points to something else. I am concerned that it will end up wrong, and I very much hope that it does not put rural areas at a disadvantage. However, the signals I receive are worrying. The whole of society needs to be changed in order for us to be able to deal with the climate crisis. Climate change is a fundamental social crisis that we can only resolve together. An economic policy on climate justice strengthens the welfare of the majority of people and reduces the emission space for the richest. When a larger share of the economy goes to joint investments and not to pay for the rich's luxury consumption, emissions fall and support for the transition increases. Climate change must be met with joint investment. Rural conditions have been mentioned several times in the debates. I fully agree with what Helena Vilhelmsson from the Center Party said, because I know a lot of it. If you colleagues believe that one of you can teach me something about the countryside, you will draw a rivet, because I really know what rural means. No one has escaped the mass letters everyone has received with regard to the Gas Rebellion 2.0. I have met them myself here in Stockholm, and I have listened to them. However, I replied only to one of the many letters I received. It was from a person who wrote that he drives 3,000 miles a year and that his car draws 0.6 liters [0.6 liters]. It was a diesel car. I'm sure he was honest with everything he told him, but I told him that 3,500 miles by 0.6 liters would be 2,100 liters, and the hand on the heart – would 2,100 bucks change his life on an annual basis? That's 175 kroner a month. That's what it's all about. He would get $125 a month to move around if the fuel became cheaper. I drive a lot; you'll think so. I have 30 miles [6 1⁄2 km] to drive if I'm going to have any service at all – one way. We have two cars, and we drive a lot. But $125 a month would change nothing. This would not result in what Boriana Åberg from the Moderates slightly implied, namely that someone wants to move to the countryside. It takes completely other and more accurate arguments for people to want to move to and stay in rural areas. Other incentives are needed for rural areas to live. I'm listening, and I understand those who are in the petrol rebellion. It's a signal that somewhere is enough. But to think that 1 quid per litre makes a difference – come on, colleagues! You know very well that it is placard politics and that it meets very, very badly. You can say a lot about the tax cut that the Center Party told you a little bit about. It is 137.50 a month, but at least it also gives those who do not have a car reduced tax. Nor will it save anything; I agree. But what is going on in society and with Brexit – where did it come from? Well, you started talking about the price of gas, like it was supposed to be the whole world. I understand the frustration-- I feel it on my skin every day-- but the tax on petrol will not be what determines whether we get a living countryside or not. You'll have to believe that. We have to do something to change, but I would like to discuss an increase in petrol tax of 2 bucks per litre and that the money was earmarked so that it really goes to the countryside and does something for those who live there and have fought for it. In my village, we were 100 people at most, and now there are 10 of us. You understand. I could ride to three shops when I was a kid, and now I had to take the car and drive 6 1⁄2 miles. So don't come to me and tell me about rural conditions! When it comes to the belief that 1 quid in reduced petrol tax would change my life, I take it for my forehead – excuse me, Mr. Old President. I call for the motion to be approved and for the motion to be rejected definitively.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-511	Mr. Old President! Imagine a warm summer night! You sit alone in a car and rush through the Swedish night landscape. The heat spreads throughout your body while you smell the dark night. It's not without thinking a little bit about Snowstorm's old battle bed Summer night. Imagine the stressful single family father who is going to transport the three mischievous children! I know that father, when I have been there and felt the stress that arises when the puzzle of life will work in everyday life. It's not without thinking a little bit about Björn Afzelius' beautiful song A thousand pieces. Imagine all the people sitting in a car to get to the BB! Imagine those who have 10 to 150 km to the nearest health centre or those who have experienced an acute health problem along a Norrland road and do not get the help they need on time. It's not without thinking a little about Trazan Apansson's and Banarne's song about the word Mr. Old President! Today the car is often described as an environmental problem, but we must not forget that the car for many is what allows us to enjoy summer night, handle the puzzle of life or get to the care we need when there are no other French sports. In the KD-M budget adopted by the Riksdag in 2018, the over-indexation of taxes on petrol and diesel was paused for six months. In the government budget, which is supported by C and L and adopted this year, the tax is again reduced – however, through a different procedure. Today, there is a clear conflict of objectives between environmental benefits and the opportunities for individual citizens to live their lives well. Today's fuel taxation means penalising the rural population, many of whom depend on the car in order to cope with everyday life. There are no other realistic alternatives, and neither bicycle nor public transport solves everyday puzzles in rural areas. We also see how our major cities are becoming increasingly congested, and this despite the emergence of new traffic solutions and a well-functioning public transport system. In order to reduce urban congestion at peak times, we need to find other instruments that make it profitable to choose other times for commuting or goods transport. A new vehicle and fuel taxation model is therefore needed to improve the environment while enabling citizens to live throughout the country. Costs should also be shared more fairly between different social groups. Mr. Old President! If politics fails to keep this balance, there is a risk that more citizens will perceive environmental policy as a major phenomenon managed by politicians who do not understand the everyday problems of rural areas. I therefore believe that, in future, a completely different model of taxation is needed for traffic than it is today. A future taxation model needs to take into account what it is for vehicles, where the vehicle is driven, what fuel system it has and when it is used at night. For example, it should be cheaper to use the car where there is no well-functioning public transport. It should also be cheaper to use a more environmentally friendly car and cheaper to use it during hours of the day when traffic is less intense. The more of these parameters are met, the lower the level of taxation and vice versa. Today's situation, where most of the tax is handled via the actual refuelling of the car, leads to unreasonable consequences for those who depend on the car if we at the same time have effective control against reduced emissions for Sweden as a whole. Mr. Old President! In view of the problems with foreign hauliers who do not pay to drive on Swedish roads, it would be good if we tested a new vehicle and fuel taxation model in the haulage industry that could put the foreign hauliers in order while at the same time having the opportunity to try a new tax model. Today's transport taxation also affects all those who have motorhomes in an unjust way. It is not reasonable for vehicles used for a short period of time in the year to be taxed in the way they do today. Mr. Old President! In accordance with the parliamentary framework decision process, the government's draft budget and the opposition parties' draft budget are set against each other as a whole, and the budget is then decided in two stages. The Christian Democrats' draft budget is a coherent whole. As the Parliament in step one – the Framework Decision – has supported the Government's proposal for a financial framework for the state's budget and a focus on budgetary policy, I am not taking part in the present decision. Mr. Old President! We have no reservation of our own, but I support our specific opinion on reduced taxation on fuels. I would like to conclude this speech by stating that this is not just a debate on taxes. It is a debate that affects all those who depend on the car to cope with the different shifts of life, whether you live in a city or grow up in the countryside. If we are serious about the whole country living, we must develop a new tax model.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-526	Mr. Old President! This is an exciting debate, I think. There are many things that all of us in the Swedish Parliament, from right to left, agree on. One such thing is that the whole of Sweden should live. On this issue, there is no conflict whatsoever in the Swedish parliament, and it seems to be the same in Sweden as a whole. I have travelled from the bottom of southern Sweden to the top of northern Sweden. I have met people who live in the deepest forests and in the sparsely populated countryside. I have also met people in Gothenburg, Stockholm and Malmö. I have never met any voters or politicians who do not think that the whole of Sweden should live. Mr. Old President! Those of us who are Members of Parliament have a responsibility to respond to this pressure from the voters for the whole of Sweden to live. We also have a responsibility to ensure that the whole of Sweden can live both today and tomorrow. In those parts of Sweden where you depend on a car to make the puzzle of life go together or simply make life go together, we have to make sure that this is possible if we are to take this responsibility seriously. But it is also the case that we have a responsibility for tomorrow – because future generations can have a decent life and that you can have a decent life and live all over Sweden tomorrow too. This is what makes this issue a balance. We must ensure that the climate is saved through lower climate emissions and that fewer cars travel on petrol that damage the climate, because that means that it will not be possible to live in the whole of Sweden tomorrow. Climate change will lead to droughts that hit Sweden as a whole and to floods that risk hitting Sweden as a whole. Different consequences of the climate affect different parts of Sweden. In those parts of Sweden where you have a lot of food production on arable land, the droughts are perhaps a worse problem. As far as floods are concerned, we have already seen the consequences in our capital city and in our major cities, where there are plenty of hard surfaces that are unable to absorb water and where floods are therefore more severe. If you have a lot of asphalt, the water stays above ground and is not sucked underground. It is clear that climate change is hitting the whole country, no matter what it looks like. That is why this is an issue in which we must keep our balance and ensure both that Sweden as a whole lives today and that the whole of Sweden lives tomorrow. This proposal means a reduction in petrol tax, diesel tax and so on. This means that we stop the over-indexation that has been and that we simply lower the tax. But we will continue to need a petrol tax, or a tax on fuel, in this country. In addition, we take the initiative and do things so that you can live and have breathing space and resources to reset wherever you live in the country. For example, in accordance with the January Agreement, a process of differentiated travel deduction is ongoing. This is something that the Liberals have been pushing for a long time and that we have got into the January agreement. It also answers the question raised by the Christian Democrats earlier in the debate about whether it would not be good if the cost of driving a car differed depending on whether there is a lot of public transport or not. That is what the Liberals think, and that is why we have received the question of a differentiated travel allowance. Where it is easy to go from the car to travel collectively, you should not get a travel allowance at the same level as where you actually need the car to travel. This is one way of ensuring that there is an opportunity for people to live and live throughout the country. Tax money will also be needed to make climate-smart infrastructure investments so that new fuels are used in places in the country where they do not currently have this capacity. Resources are needed to make these investments. It can be about charging infrastructure and whether it is possible to have it in some parts of the country. It could be hydrogen or other technologies. It can also be about electrification, which the Liberals have also pushed for in the framework of the January agreement. Ultimately, incentives will continue to be needed to make petrol cars even more efficient and to make fuel use even more efficient and to release less CO2 where, after all, petrol cars are needed. Mr. Old President! It is clear that, if you are an opposition party, you can incite an opinion against this proposal. It is clear that you can draw large bills and try to paint a picture of that it is not that everyone wants the whole country to live. But that's nonsense. All of Sweden will live, today and in the future. This proposal for a tax reduction is now needed. We continue to have a tax on fuel, but there will be a reduction in the tax now. This is done together with investments, together with, for example, the differentiated travel allowance and together with investments in electrification, hydrogen and charging infrastructure. Then we can live tomorrow, both in the country and throughout the world. Then we can meet the climate challenges while meeting the challenges of how to live in different parts of the country.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-540	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Taxation for today's debate. I am positively surprised to be able to agree with the previous speaker on many points. I am also rather concerned about the system criticism that is missing from the previous speaker from the Moderates. To say that no one is an environmental villain is a way to divide society into individuals. I would say that, unfortunately, we are all environmental villains in that sense. In Sweden we have one emission per person per year, which is around 10 tonnes of carbon dioxide. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, it must decrease to around 1 tonne of carbon dioxide per person per year. This is troubling. It is not a question of us, as individuals, taking on board the whole climate crisis, but a system. As politicians, we must be system-critical and realise that we must build a system that does not place all the blame and burden on the shoulders of the individual, because that will be completely impossible. Well, we're all environmental villains. And what I've had as an input into my political commitment is to make sure that we don't have to have it that way. I think it is ironic when we in the government are accused of being anti-developmentist and when that criticism comes from conservative parties. It seems that it adds weight to the words if you tell me that you know something about the countryside, so I can tell you that I myself grew up in a village that consists of three houses out in the forest in Småland. It may also give weight to the fact that I also know what the countryside looks like and how it works. I can say that the problems facing rural areas are not due to increased taxes on fuel. This is due to about everything that politicians have done and the development that we have seen with urbanisation and the very hard and demanding work line that requires urbanisation. So, no, a tax on fuel is not the threat to the countryside. Mr. Old President! The environmental crisis is here and now, and we must take all the measures we can. We must ban what destroys, taxes what we want to reduce and create opportunities for what can reverse the negative trends. One way is to tax what we should instead of what we can. A tax that goes without saying is therefore on fuel. I do not know what colleagues in the committee are referring to when they say that motorism does not represent a climate burden at all. Most car trips take place in urban areas. Half of all car journeys are less than 5 kilometres. Road traffic accounts for 30 per cent of total CO2 emissions in Sweden, and according to the Swedish Transport Administration, emissions from road traffic increased last year. It is a development that we must reverse if we are to have any chance of achieving the climate targets. Mr. Old President! We know that environmental taxes are an effective tool for combating environmental problems, and in particular CO2 taxation is one of the most effective instruments. We hear many times in the debate about the environment that the Moderates like effective measures. That's why I can't really make it go together when the Moderates resist and want to remove the most effective instrument that we know. However, just keeping the level of an environmental tax, while the economy as a whole is growing, makes it relatively cheaper to release it over the years. We know that if an environmental tax is not adjusted up, the power of environmental taxes decreases over time. Of course, this does not only apply to environmental taxes. In an economy that is growing, wages, the price of goods and taxes are increasing. This isn't news. Mr. Old President! An ever-growing economy that constantly consumes more finite resources is neither desirable nor possible, but while it does, it is essential that environmental taxes are also listed, i.e. indexed. In the past, the petrol tax has only been counted up with inflation, but in order for the petrol tax to retain its governing effect even when the economy is growing, we introduced a bnp indexation during the last parliamentary term. This indexation is also fixed next year. It is a profit that has been worth fighting for, as we in the Green Party have also done. The resistance to a fuel tax has been great from the right-wing parties, despite the fact that we in this House have decided in broad agreement that emissions from the transport sector should be reduced by 70% by 2030. Mr. Old President! This is a goal supported by the Moderates, but now they want to significantly lower the price of petrol and make it cheaper to release. For me, it's beyond understanding. Having a tax in itself is not the goal, at least not for us. Our ultimate goal is to balance what this planet can provide for us humans, away from climate and natural crises. For about 50 years, man's pressure on the planet has been higher than that of the planet. The consumption of the planet's resources is higher than the planet's total biocapacity. We are therefore the party that dares to say the inconvenient but necessary truth: we must reduce production, consumption and working time but also reduce transport. For the Green Party, taxation on fuel is just one of many different political proposals on how we can reduce emissions from traffic.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-555	Mr. Old President! I have a severe cold, so I did not intend to go up any further in the debate. However, since I was called upon so many times by my colleague Rebecka Le Moine, I had to do so. First of all, I would like to say that I refuse to call people who are doing the right thing for environmental villains – people who are struggling to get to their jobs, working hard and paying taxes to ensure that all the measures that the government intends to take are put in place. Then how wise they are is shown in the polls. The Green Party's symbolic policy is more harmful than possible emissions from today's relatively environmentally friendly cars. The only way to limit CO2 emissions is to use new technologies, such as electric cars. But at the moment, they are very expensive. People should have the opportunity to reset without having to leave their homes or stop working because they cannot pay their petrol and diesel bills. The Green Party claims to be in favour of development. But how are these electric cars to be supplied with electricity if there is no reliable energy source, such as nuclear power, which the Green Party is so effectively fighting? All these cars to be reloaded must have some fuel to go on. I would like to know how Rebecka Le Moine intends to solve the problem.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-560	Mr. Old President! If I understood correctly, my colleague refuses to sign off on us being environmental villains. In that case, we'll have to face the truth. It is difficult not to be an environmental villain in a broken system that makes us all have emissions, no matter how environmentally friendly we consume. That's the harsh truth. Doing the right thing seems to be the argument or motive for being an environmental villain. What, then, is to do right? Is it having a job? In that case, we have completely different views on science but also on man. For me, man is not reduced to a work unit that can be replaced by a robot. Doing the right thing is not something that automatically removes emissions. Then the question is how we solve this. There, my absolutely most important message is worth repeating: we must reduce emissions. We cannot just switch to a greener fuel, an ecolabel or something else, but we must refrain from consuming. We really must fundamentally question the growth society, which only requires us to produce and consume more and more every year. This is what has led us into the climate crisis in which we find ourselves. That's why we have a million endangered species. We live in the sixth mass extinction because we have completely industrialized nature, where we have brought home our so-called successes. Now is the time for us to really develop our way of life into a way that does not tear the planet apart and does not put future generations into extremely difficult situations.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-565	Mr. Old President! I just want to say that for me, people are not an environmental problem. I am very concerned when representatives of various organisations and also of the Green Party are trying to explain to children that they are not going to have children themselves, because then they are ruining the environment. In fact, man is nature's highest creation, and it is man who can solve environmental problems. Environmental problems are prevented, counteracted and solved by hard work and advanced technologies, not by limiting growth and a lot of unnecessary sacrifices. It is growth that has lifted us up to the good welfare society we have. In order for all the measures to improve the environment to have an effect, they must have acceptance by the individual. If I'm going to do anything, I'm going to do it because I think it's good and I'm contributing. I do not want to contribute to anything meaningless, which is also counterproductive, such as the waste incineration tax or the subsidy to electric bicycles, which proved to be an absolute flop. The list of measures that the Green Party has tried to push on the Swedish people and that have had no environmental impact at all can be made long. Let me say once again that people are not an environmental problem; they are the solution to environmental problems.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-569	Mr. Old President! I am somewhat shocked, because I do not understand how this goes with the IPCC reports and the research on which there is in principle full agreement: that it is we people who are responsible for the climate change the world is facing. It is we who have put ourselves in this situation, and not just us, but millions of other species. That is why we must see ourselves as responsible for this. Something else cannot be reconciled with the knowledge and research on which there is consensus. I definitely disagree that man is the highest creation. I'm not religious, and I don't sign up for specialism either. We are one of all species, and we should accept and respect the existence of all species. It is not possible to ignore the growth that virtually all parties are arguing for. With today's growth rate and target, consumption will be eleven times greater in a hundred years' time than it is today. It is neither possible nor desirable. There is also no international research that supports so-called decoupling, decoupling, neither relative nor absolute. Dreaming that you should be able to continue with business as usual without it having any impact is just a dream. And it's about time we wake up and face the truth. We're the ones who influence. However, I agree that we can also be the solution. That is why I also agree that we must find acceptance. The changes we are facing are so great that if we do not bring the people of our democratic society with us, it will be extremely difficult to implement them.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-574	Mr. Old President! I like history, philosophy and theology and thought it was a bit exciting to hear that man has a responsibility but is equal. I very much share the view that man has a responsibility. I even think it comes from a two thousand-year tradition. But that is not why I asked to speak. I greatly appreciated the talk of system criticism. When I listen to the representatives of the government, however, my experience is that they talk about system criticism, but they do not come up with a system proposal. Today we have vehicle taxation, fuel taxation, congestion taxes – because of congestion or new construction – and some other charges. The function of fuel taxation is such that, regardless of whether one tanks 1 000 or 100 litres a month, one kilometre price is actually paid. This is often where the government puts forward its various proposals. But simply want to make it more expensive to use an environmentally negative fuel, and here most of us agree. The catch is just that the effect is that those who live far away have to bear a great burden. In addition, those who live far away often have poor public transport. That is why we Christian Democrats, both at a seminar in Gotland, in a number of debate articles and in our motion, have tried to argue for a, in my opinion, much more system-critical approach, namely a n y traffic and fuel taxation. This is where the technology is used and it is based on the assumption that tax is paid on the basis of the vehicle's movement, where the vehicle is located. Then you would pay taxes depending on where you are the time of day.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-578	Mr. Old President! I didn't get a direct question, but it's nice to hear that system criticism is appreciated. I think we would need more of that in Swedish politics. There are many of us who look forward to the major tax reform that is included in the January agreement. Let me repeat that we must start taxing what we should rather than what we can. I believe that we can make real use of the principle of green tax exchange. Today, environmentally bad things receive subsidies that are larger than the overall environmental budget, which is bizarre. We need to review the systems we have built up and perhaps not just content ourselves with dubbing on the top layer of a large system that is both complicated and not always reasonable. I agree that there may be many good proposals and creative ideas on how to shape vehicle taxation in order to make it more accurate.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-582	Mr. Old President! Basically, we Christian Democrats share the view that Sweden should have a green tax exchange. We were one of the first parties to talk about this type of exchange, and we have looked at it in different ways. One of the reasons why we think it is positive to reduce taxes on labour is that employees get more money over, which encourages and benefits jobs. Instead, taxes can be levied on things that damage the environment. As far as transport is concerned: with the emerging new technologies, we see, and also some green institutes of ideas, that new traffic and fuel taxation is possible. Can the government parties consider starting to look at this issue? That would change the whole discourse. I appreciate the Green Party highlighting the debate on system criticism. However, I feel that the government does not come up with any real system proposals. The only proposals made in the environmental field are new taxation on aircraft and cars. This is not so system-efficient but only, in our view, makes people in rural and rural areas more difficult to get to and from urban areas and work. It also makes it difficult for those who want to drive their children to sports activities or cultural experiences. We are critical of the method used by the government because it becomes very unattainable. Can the government parties consider starting to look at a whole new traffic and fuel taxation? Then we could probably resolve some conflicts and, in the long term, find a broad solution in this House.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-588	Mr. Old President! I thank the honourable Member for the question, which I did not understand earlier. I cannot answer here and now how the whole government thinks about the question, but myself I am curious and open to suggestions and discussion. As far as system criticism is concerned, it is right – although we are putting various environmental taxes here and there, it will not be able to solve all the problems we face, not in the system we are locked in at the moment. We have a growth policy that basically all parties are for, very hard and cemented. We have a working line with the 40-hour week celebrating 100 years without being questioned. We have a tax system that hardly anyone understands. Perhaps we should fundamentally question both the working line and what we want to achieve with this society. I myself am in favour of thinking and suggestions about basic income. I also believe that it would be very important and useful if an investigation could be carried out to evaluate, for example, the idea of negative income tax, to ensure that no human being gets between the chairs and that we prioritise prosperity. There is your own time and leisure time also very important ingredients. This was a little debauchery about system criticism, but the answer is that I am curious and open to discussion.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-592	Mr. Old President! We are now going to debate the report by the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the continued Swedish participation in NATO's Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. Let me begin by thanking all the Swedish men and women who have served, not only in Afghanistan but in various foreign efforts. Sweden and Swedish ability have contributed in an extremely positive way around the world. In an international comparison, Swedish men and women have a very high quality. That is also why our services are so in demand in international contexts. The operation in Afghanistan has taken part in Sweden since 2002. At the beginning it was in the form of ISAF between 2002 and 2014. The stake was then converted into RSM from the turn of the year 2014/ 15. We are now in the fifth year of the RSM and are entering the sixth. Overall, we have soon been in Afghanistan for two decades. We had the parliamentary investigation service look at what this has cost. Looking at both efforts, there is a cost of nearly SEK 21 billion since 2002 – for ISAF just under SEK 21 billion and for RSM around SEK 300 million so far. The RSM aims to provide training, advice and support to Afghan defence and security forces. The question that can then be asked and that is very relevant in this context is: How long should we continue to educate? The Government's proposal states that the overall objective of Sweden's contribution to the RSM is to contribute to consolidating the Afghan defence and security forces' ability to manage the country's security independently in the long term. Somewhere from the Swedish side there should be a plan for how long we will continue to educate, educate and educate. You can compare with what it is like in Sweden. We train officers who then take over and train new soldiers and so on, and then it rolls on. Then the question is: are we going to continue training in Afghanistan year in year out? Is it not the time for them to take on the responsibility for education themselves? As I said, we've been there for five years. The question is, how much longer is this going to go on? Soon we have been in Afghanistan for a total of 20 years. Is this going to continue for 30 years, 40 years or 50 years? What's the plan, really? At least we won't find out in the government bill. We believe that it is time to put an end to the Swedish effort. That's what we meant when we converted the ISAF to the RSM. This conflict has been going on for decades. We can see that it is rather unwitting. Sweden has made a significant contribution, but we believe it is time for other actors to take on and take responsibility. We also believe that from a Swedish perspective we should concentrate on what we must prioritise now, that is, to build the Swedish defence capability. Since security in our immediate vicinity has changed, we must build our own defence capabilities. It is true that both this foreign operation and the foreign efforts generally contribute to building the capacity of our national armed forces and staff. As is written in the bill, our participation in the Swedish Armed Forces has given Swedish military personnel experience of serving in an international context, which has helped to increase the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to interact with others. There are interoperability gains and so on in this. But in the situation we are in now, we mean – and we have meant this for years – that it is time to concentrate on Swedish defence capabilities and, in the first place, ensure that we can defend our country here. We should not continue to participate year after year in an effort where there is clearly no plan for what the final goal is. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1 in the report.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-603	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking all of you who are on or have been on foreign missions on behalf of Sweden. It is a difficult task for the Riksdag to send you, and for your efforts we in the Left Party would like to express our great appreciation. Mr. Old President! The night between 8 and 9 July last summer the Swedish Afghanistan Committee's health clinic in Wardak was attacked by Afghan government forces. A person who kept a patient company was killed immediately. Three people were abducted and killed by extrajudicial executions. Two of them were employed by the Swedish Afghanistan Committee. The director of the clinic was taken away and kept without explanation in custody for two weeks. Attacks on civilians, extrajudicial executions and attacks on medical facilities are totally unacceptable and a clear violation of humanitarian law. When safety can no longer be guaranteed, civilians in need of care will suffer double. As a consequence of the attack, the Taliban forced the Swedish Afghanistan Committee to temporarily close 42 additional clinics in the region, which affected 5,700 patients a day. According to UNAMA, the number of civilian deaths in Afghanistan is now highest among Afghan and international military personnel. With the Swedish military presence in Afghanistan, Sweden has a special responsibility to work to ensure that human rights and international law are respected by all parties, not least by those we educate ourselves. The bill highlights that Sweden will work actively to implement UN Resolution 1325 within the plan of the operation. The Left Party has repeatedly emphasised the importance of this resolution being brought to life by Swedish participation in international efforts. However, it is essential that humanitarian law is respected and Afghan security forces are not involved in extrajudicial executions. The government should therefore return with an account of how the Swedish force contribution in Afghanistan has worked and is working to educate the country's defence and security forces on humanitarian law issues. The Government proposes through the bill that a Swedish armed force of normally under 50 persons be made available for the NATO training and counselling operation RSM in Afghanistan for another year. In reality, this means that Sweden continues to participate for another year in an international effort that is fundamentally unsuccessful. Once again, the decision to phase out Sweden's military presence in Afghanistan is postponed to the future. Five times in the past, the Left Party has called for the rejection of proposals with the same proposal as today, and we still do not believe that a Swedish armed force should be made available to NATO. Overall, we have been calling for a refusal of military participation for 15 years. We see the RSM operation as a continuation of the NATO-led ISAF operation, to which we have been very strongly critical. The experience of Afghanistan shows that armed action has not led to increased security for the population. Sweden should work to ensure that the UN is given direct responsibility for the further process, both civilian and military. If so, it could facilitate a future peace process. According to us in the Left Party, the parliament should therefore reject the government's proposal to continue Swedish participation in the NATO operation in Afghanistan. Since the representatives of both the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats have called for rejection of the bill, we must have a common reservation. However, I would like to emphasise that our parties fundamentally differ in our view of Sweden's commitment to Afghanistan. For Afghanistan's history shows that there is no military solution to the country's problems. Foreign military presence has repeatedly deepened and reinforced the country's conflicts. In order to ensure work for peace, democratisation and gender equality, a fundamentally different approach is needed for Afghanistan. The Left Party sees major challenges that can only be solved through a civil and political strategy. The core of such a strategy is increased civil assistance and support for political efforts to launch a peace and reconciliation process. Efforts must be made to get back and re-integrate the fighting parties into Afghan society. Already today, there are a number of initiatives at both local and national level in Afghanistan to try to get the peace and reconciliation process under way. But Sweden's support has so far been limited. Here we need to do more. Sweden has strong ties with Afghanistan through the many Afghans who today live in our country and all Swedes who have been involved in solidarity work for decades. Through the successful work of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee in the country for 40 years, Sweden has gained credibility and created a unique network of contacts. Sweden could therefore become a key player for peace, democracy and gender equality in Afghanistan. But that requires us to shift our focus from military operations to civilian and political efforts. In Afghanistan, a new generation of young women and men is growing up. Many of them lack opportunities for education, livelihood and a life that is not limited by oppression and poverty. This picture is confirmed not least by all unaccompanied children and young people who have fled here. There must be a belief in the future for them in Afghanistan. Lack of faith in the future and frustration is the best friend of extremists: it facilitates their recruitment. That's why that problem can never be met with bombs. Civil aid is therefore crucial to solving the root causes of the war in Afghanistan. The Left Party therefore welcomes the fact that Sweden has pledged more than SEK 8 billion in civilian aid to Afghanistan during the period 2015–2024. At the same time, civil action must be complemented by efforts to bring about a peace and reconciliation process. It must accommodate a wide range of interested groups in Afghan society in order for a long-term, peaceful solution to take shape. It is therefore important for civil society to have a more prominent role in these talks. It is particularly important that the women of Afghanistan are included in the peace process and that their rights and influence are not negotiated away. It turned out not least when young female journalist Najwa Alimi received the Per Anger Prize for her work for free media through Zan TV, a television channel that had only female employees and where stories about women's conditions in Afghanistan were in focus. Experience from other countries also shows that peace negotiations involving women lead to a more sustainable peace. The Left Party has been pushing for a more prominent role for resolution 1325 in Afghanistan for a long time and therefore welcomes the government's strong commitment to this issue. With that, Mr. Old President, I request that the bill be rejected and that reservation 1 be approved.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-621	Mr. Old President! As chairman of the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, let me start with warm and sincere thanks. You soldiers and Swedish representatives are there on our behalf. You're there to serve the peace. You are there with representatives of other countries to work together under difficult conditions. You serve your country and our common interests. Thank you! Mr. Old President! The Moderates support the report of the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for continued Swedish participation in NATO's training and advice mission in Afghanistan. We are therefore in favour of the Riksdag deciding that the Government may make available an armed force consisting of approximately 50 persons until the end of December 2020 with the possibility of an additional 150 persons in a temporary reinforcement and evacuation force. The overall international effort in Afghanistan operates under difficult conditions. Recent developments are worrying. It is regrettable how violence has increased in intensity despite the peace efforts made. There are also activities in the background. The United States has spoken directly to the Taliban. There are also other formats for talks that can bring about possible changes to what is happening in Afghanistan, and this can happen quickly. It is therefore of great importance that, in the event of deterioration, the government has the opportunity to temporarily reinforce the operation in addition to the intended contribution of 50 people in place. It is also extremely important that the Swedish Armed Forces have sufficient resources to operate in the country. All foreign operations work hard both on the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel and on their equipment. For the popular anchoring of Sweden's military efforts as well as our ability to control rationally, a systematic follow-up and evaluation of the effort is of great importance as well as a functioning reporting to the Riksdag. We therefore assume that in this regard the government will engage in an active dialogue with the Riksdag in the coming year. Mr. Old President! Long-term and clarity are of great importance. The deteriorating geopolitical situation in our neighbourhood is leading to an increasingly prominent role for the defence's national capabilities. That is precisely what this work of producing a new defence decision is all about. I very much hope that the government parties will be able to shoulder the responsibilities of both political breadth and sufficient economic level. This must be behind such a decision. Mr. Old President! Sometimes you face the question: What are we doing there? The answer is: Sweden's international efforts make an important contribution to the long-term efforts to maintain the rule-based world order, which forms the basis for Sweden's security, security and prosperity. Our report also states, and I would like to quote, Mr President-in-Office, that the starting point for Sweden's commitment is that security is best built in collaboration and in partnership with others. At a time of increasing cross-border threats and close links between internal and external security, this is all the more important. Sweden's participation in peace-promoting efforts is also important for our national security and for our defence capabilities. Sweden therefore needs to be a partner of solidarity, credibility and responsibility in international crisis management operations that build security together with others. ..................................................... Sweden is an important global force for the protection of women and girls. Security Council Resolution 1325 will permeate our efforts. The operation in Afghanistan has been going on for almost 20 years, in fact since 2001, when a coalition was formed as a result of 11 September with the violent terrorist attack, which in practice was an attack on the entire international community. That is why we are there, even though the mission was changed a few years ago to become a non-combatant advisory and training effort. I note the broad agreement, even though, as we have now heard, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats choose to reject the action as such. Mr. Old President! We see how Afghanistan continues to have a great need for international support. The presence of the Swedish force helps to strengthen the Afghan security forces' ability to deal independently with security in the country in the future. It is therefore an important prerequisite for creating long-term opportunities for development in a country and in a population that has suffered countless sufferings and severe vulnerability for decades. We should always be there to stand up for human rights in all education and training. The initiative is also an important part of Sweden's broad commitment to Afghanistan, characterised by Swedish values and interests. We support Afghanistan on the basis of principles of democracy, equality and human rights. Development policy and humanitarian engagement are important parts of the overall Swedish support for Afghanistan. We are there with others for girls to go to school and for women to run businesses or play music in public. We're there for people. Mr. Old President! At the same time, it is of great importance that Swedish aid is characterised by transparency and that it is followed up. Recently, the recognized Swedish journalist Magda Gad has raised the issue of Swedish aid in Taliban-led areas in reviewing reports. It is of great importance that the government ensures that Swedish aid does not fall into the wrong hands, with the significant risks that it may present in the context of Afghanistan. Aid should be in line with our foreign policy priorities. Mr President-in-Office of the Council and honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! We Members will take a decision that represents an extremely significant responsibility – a significant responsibility for our Swedish soldiers who risk their lives for peace, security and stability far away from our kingdom's borders. Their efforts are an important force for a safer world.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-635	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. As we have heard earlier in the debate, developments in Afghanistan are in many ways worrying. Although the Afghan Government has expanded its peace efforts, the armed conflict has increased both in scope and intensity. The UN reports that in the first half of 2019 there were nearly 4,000 civilian victims, of which over 1,300 were killed. The humanitarian situation in Afghanistan is acute. In August this year, UNHCR reported that some 6.3 million people were in urgent need of humanitarian aid. The combination of the security situation, lack of infrastructure and threats makes it difficult to achieve humanitarian aid for those who need it. UNHCR has also reported that in 2018 there were over 2.1 million internally displaced persons in Afghanistan. Mr. Old President! To build security, we must use the full range of our security policy instruments. Sweden contributes to security in Afghanistan through humanitarian aid and support to the peace process as well as through participation in the military training and advice operation. Our engagement in Afghanistan is a broad and long-term one with the aim of achieving long-term stability in the country. The military training and counselling operation aims to assist the Afghan security forces with training, advice and support to support them in autonomously managing the security of the country. As has been mentioned earlier in the debate, the Swedish contribution shall consist of a maximum of 50 people on the ground. However, if the situation so requires, a maximum of 150 additional persons at short notice shall be provided to carry out rescue, evacuation, reinforcement and rescue operations if necessary. The Swedish grant will work where it is most requested and at bases where possible based on security. In addition to providing advice to the defence and security forces, the contribution will also consist of staff and management structures relevant to the operation. The RSM operation as a whole currently consists of 39 countries and consists of approximately 17 000 people. The Swedish contribution of approximately 50 people is thus a relatively small contribution, but a very important part. Mr. Old President! We know that through all times there have been and still are men who tend to sit at the negotiating table, and it tends to be men's interests that are primarily met. At the same time, we know that women and children tend to be particularly vulnerable in armed conflicts. Not only are they particularly vulnerable, but they also tend to be constantly excluded from political processes. That is why UN Resolution 1325 is so important; it makes visible both the particular vulnerability of women and the need for women to be represented both in the military and at the negotiating table. In Sweden, we take the resolution and its accompanying resolutions very seriously. At the Livgarde in Kungsängen outside Stockholm, both Swedish and foreign soldiers are trained in the resolution and how it can be implemented in a practical way. One of the objectives of the Swedish operation is also to ensure that everyone included in the Swedish contribution must be trained in and have knowledge of the practical application of resolutions on women, peace and security. The training is also part of the advice and training provided to the Afghan defence and security forces. In addition to the Swedish contribution, Sweden follows closely how Resolution 1325 is applied in the operation as a whole and has also contributed to the work of updating the NATO Action Plan for the implementation of 1325, which will be applied in all NATO operations, including the RSM. Swedish participation in the military operation should be seen as part of a larger whole. Therefore, when we talk about 1325, I think it is particularly important to highlight the work carried out by the Folke Bernadotte Academy and by the Swedish Embassy in Kabul on behalf of the Government. In 2016, the Embassy identified some thirty women from different provinces who can play a role in local peace building. These women were then allowed to participate in a training programme in mediation and dialogue organised by the Folke Bernadotte Academy on behalf of the government. During 2018 and 2019 the Folke Bernadotte Academy has a special mission to support the peace process and strengthen women's participation in it. There should be no excuses for leaving women out of the negotiating table. Mr. Old President! In order for us in Sweden to be able to contribute to the military effort in Afghanistan, we need soldiers and officers who are willing to volunteer and who are willing to temporarily leave their life here in Sweden to work for international security. But it also takes family members to volunteer here at home. For every person who goes away there are a number of home heroes who keep everyday life together here at home. It is parents, partners, children and friends that make it possible for the soldier to leave. I would therefore like to conclude by thanking all of you very much for making this effort possible. Without you, no Swedish effort.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-649	Mr. Old President! During the last two years, just over, the Swedish Defence Committee has worked intensively with the basis for future defence-oriented decisions. The latest report, Vä rn force, signed by four parties in the Swedish Parliament also highlights the importance of international military peace-promoting efforts. One of the many conclusions of the Defence Committee is that the global security policy situation for the foreseeable future means that there is still a great need for international military action. Sweden should continue active engagement and participation internationally, both civilly and with military operations and within the framework of the UN, the EU, NATO, the OSSE and other coalitions of countries. Our overall foreign and security policy objective for Sweden's international participation in peace-promoting efforts is to contribute to peace and security, to prevent conflicts and to create the conditions for sustainable poverty reduction. Sweden's participation is a very important way to show solidarity and to promote relations and deepen cooperation with countries and organisations that are also important for our security in our neighbourhood. NATO is expected to continue to carry out both training and training activities. The intervention in Afghanistan is an important example of this. This action is carried out at the invitation of the Afghan Government. An agreement between the Afghan Government and NATO was concluded in September 2014. Sweden's strength contribution shall not exceed 50 people. We have Swedes in place in northern Afghanistan. As we have heard, a total of 17 000 people from 39 countries participate in the main task of training, training and counselling. The aim is to support and strengthen the ability of Afghan defence and security forces to deal independently with security in the country. We have taken note of the Swedish Armed Forces' assessment, and it is that our contribution responds well to the needs. The military presence is still necessary. Operations assessments are made on an ongoing basis by those responsible. The strength contribution will be active at bases where security allows. Staff also serve in staff and management structures relevant to the operation. The Swedish contribution is important. The possibility of moving from a military operation to a civilian operation to the future is now being assessed. We need to continue to contribute militarily. There are significant losses. The situation often involves uncertainty in the area. Lack of democracy, increasing security concerns and a lack of respect for human rights are some of the assessments that describe the situation. There is also uncertainty about the future involvement of different countries in this effort. Sweden's contribution should be realistic, sustainable and responsible. The position on the ground shall determine the next step of the operation. It is also important to highlight the need for flexibility in how grants are to be placed geographically and also adapted in the future. The goal is for Afghanistan to be able to manage security itself in the long term and also to contribute to equality and interaction between people. On behalf of the Center Party, I would like to extend warm thanks to all those who, on behalf of Sweden, participate in operations, civil and military, in Afghanistan. I would also like to support the committee's proposal in today's report.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-660	Mr. Old President! What we are discussing this afternoon is the continued Swedish participation in NATO's Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. First of all, I would like to turn to all our soldiers who have served in Afghanistan, not just right now but throughout the ages. Since 1948, Sweden has sent out around 100 000 current employees around the country – as soldiers, in police forces and in various peacekeeping operations. They've been there, Mr. Old President, often in danger of their own lives. They are the ones who have enabled us to make these efforts, not only those but also their relatives and friends. I would like to address myself, for the Christian Democrats and for the Riksdag, to all those who are looking at this now or who are reading the debate afterwards and saying thank you. Thank you for your support and for the efforts you have made! It's meant a lot to me. I would also like to wish you a Merry Christmas. Let us move on to this specific operation in Afghanistan. It is one of the world's poorest countries and a country that, as we all know, has been plagued for a long time by wars and strife, not least with the Taliban. As many people know, Sweden has a long-standing relationship with Afghanistan. Through the Swedish Afghanistan Committee we have made an effort since the 1980s. Afghanistan is also a country that has received a great deal of humanitarian aid. As the previous speaker has pointed out, Sweden has been active here in principle since its inception, for almost 20 years, first through ISAF. I had the privilege, Mr. Old President, to be down there in 2011 visiting our troops. We had 500 men there. I had experiences that I will never forget. I am thinking in particular of a visit we made to a village with a school that we had been involved in building up and not least the girls we met who had not been allowed to go to school before but had now had that chance. Sweden had been involved in funding and drilling a well and made this possible. Although we must admit that much is going in the wrong direction, that it is still a tough security policy situation and that very many human lives have been lost, Swedish efforts have had and continue to matter. I think that is important to point out. We've made a lot of effort. So what we are talking about now is a continuation effort in which we will send a maximum of 50 people who will help with the advice and training of the national security forces. Our contribution is not the largest – it is 39 countries that participate and 17 000 people who participate. But we contribute, and that is how we build security together with other countries. We must demonstrate in practical action that we are in the process of doing so. It is therefore important for several reasons that Sweden now continues to contribute. That is why I would like to call for the proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-669	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking our veterans who have served in Afghanistan, the relatives who are also in their way part of the operation here at home in Sweden and, of course, those who are currently serving on site for Sweden and for democracy and human rights in Afghanistan. Mr. Old President! We are on the ground in Afghanistan to secure peace and freedom, to educate people on human rights, among other things, and to create, through our presence and education, the stability that underpins these values. We who live in democratic, stable countries, we who live in freedom, have as societies – whether it is Sweden or any other democratic country – a moral responsibility to help and stand up if there is a risk of peace in the world, if there is a risk of human rights being violated and if there is a risk of other people being exposed to such things. We are of course in Afghanistan as Swedes because it is important also for us and for the security situation in the world, but we are also there as people, with other people from other free democracies, because we believe that we have a responsibility for all the people in the world, no matter who it is, and that their rights should not be violated. Mr. Old President! We have had a debate in Sweden on feminist foreign policy. I will not go into that debate too much, but I would like to say that I am a feminist. I am also very interested in foreign policy and also have a commitment to the Swedish Afghanistan Committee. One of the most feminist things you can do in your foreign policy is to have active work, both in terms of humanitarian work and in terms of military work, in countries where it is required. For example, for girls to go to school there may be a need for military presence and, above all, stability and a peace situation in order to build human rights and respect for people's own freedom. Mr. Old President! I am proud of Sweden's long-term commitment and our long-term presence in Afghanistan. It is a country that has been torn apart for many years by war, oppression, conflict and poverty. Our long-term and stable humanitarian work in Afghanistan cannot be underestimated. I believe that Sweden must continue to have a presence, both humanitarian and military, in Afghanistan. The two together build stability, peace and freedom also for the future. However, not everything about this effort is peace and joy. It is an extremely tough situation in Afghanistan. And those who are there on behalf of Sweden are doing an extremely good and important job. But we politicians at home in Sweden have not done enough of our work in relation to this effort. We must ensure that we have more and better measurable and follow-up objectives for the operation. More evaluable targets are needed. Human rights need to be respected, reported and followed up. It is criticism of the effort that has existed in the past and that the Liberals continue to have. Mr. Old President! Despite Liberal criticism of how our political decisions for the mission are designed, we see that it is a necessary effort to ensure peace, security and stability. We also believe that it is important that we politicians in Sweden have as united a front as possible behind our soldiers in Afghanistan in order for them to feel secure in their exercise of the mission. We have tabled our own motion on the matter. But we have not reserved ourselves and will not vote for that motion, precisely because we believe that the Parliament together needs to stop and be a strong support and show our commitment to our soldiers. However, our criticism of reporting on follow-up targets persists. That is why we have tabled a separate opinion.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-680	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating two of Sweden's major international engagements. It is great when we send our citizens into the world to fight for democracy and human rights. That's important, too. Sweden's participation in international crisis management helps to maintain and strengthen the rule-based world order. Security is built in many ways, with instruments as well as diplomacy, mediation, conflict prevention and confidence building measures as well as with national civilian, police and military capabilities. We also build safety best together with others. Sweden's participation in peace-promoting efforts is important not only for the areas where we participate but also for our national security and defence capabilities. We need to be a partner of solidarity, credibility and responsibility in international crisis management operations. Mr. Old President! The prolonged armed conflict in Afghanistan is the main obstacle to the country's development. The number of attacks on international organisations and aid organisations is still appallingly high. Afghan domestic policy is characterised by contradictions and ethnic tensions. Many factors contribute to the instability and constant change of the situation in Afghanistan. In that situation, we must do what we can to contribute to peace and stability, and when Afghanistan claims to have a continued need for international military support for the development of the Afghan defence and security structures' capacity to manage security, we are helping. It is of great importance that the international community, including Sweden, continues to support and assist the Afghan Government in its quest for a stable and secure society in the long term. In addition, Sweden aims to ensure that all personnel included in the Swedish grant are trained in and have knowledge of the practical application of UN resolutions on women, peace and security. International law, including human rights and international humanitarian law, forms the basis for the Swedish contribution. The Swedish military contribution is an important, but only one, part of Sweden's broad commitment to Afghanistan. We also have long-term development cooperation with a focus on democracy, gender equality and human rights, education and employment, as well as private sector and rural development. We have also, through the Folke Bernadotte Academy, a special strategy to work focused on women's participation in peace processes. Knowledge and implementation of UN resolutions on women, peace and security is essential for international military crisis management and peacekeeping operations to contribute to conflict resolution and lasting peace. Gender equality and greater respect for human rights, especially women's and girls' rights, must continue to be a central part of Sweden's overall commitment to Afghanistan as well as support for security development. To conclude, I would like to thank all the men and women who fight every day for democracy in one of the most vulnerable countries in the world. The effort you are making means very much to make the world better. Many thanks for that! I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-690	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating an incredibly important decision to be taken on the continued Swedish participation in NATO's Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. It is about making a Swedish armed force available in Afghanistan until the end of December 2020. It's about sending Swedish soldiers to a country in war. This is about a Swedish contribution of a maximum of 50 people on site. They will advise and train Afghan security forces. I admire their strength, courage, and professionalism. Mr. Old President! The situation in Afghanistan is difficult. The threat to the Swedish force is still high, and there is a risk that Swedish personnel will be exposed to armed violence. Therefore, it is important that threats and risk assessments are continuously made for the personnel of the operation and that Sweden is in continuous dialogue with NATO, but also with the USA and other countries participating in the RSM, about the situation in the country and the conditions for the operation. The report states that the Government points out in the bill that Sweden's contribution to the RSM is relatively small in terms of the overall staffing of the operation. It goes on to say that the possibility of evaluating the impact of the Swedish contribution on overall safety development and its role in the overall training and counselling effort is therefore limited. ..................................................... Mr. Old President! One problem that we see, and which is important to highlight, is precisely the situation of women in Afghanistan. That is where the development is really going in the wrong direction. Efforts as we do must be effective. Just because our soldiers are trained in Resolution 1325 does not mean that the Afghans automatically change. Maybe you can turn the bet on something? The UN reports in the first half of 2019 that 144 women and 327 children were killed – in six months! Furthermore, we receive reports that the number of attacks on international organisations and aid workers continues to be high. It is said that girls go to schools in the villages, but in cities it seems to be very strict. When Expressens Magda Gad reports from Wardak, we are told that not a single woman is seen at the school there. The principal says: Unfortunately, we have no girls here because the environment is not adapted for them. There are schools up to the sixth grade in the villages. There they are taught mosques, and there they may be undisturbed. According to The Asia Foundation, in the province of Wardak, only 1 percent of women have an income, despite so many years of aid efforts. Shouldn't we, Mr. Old President, be better able to? Women should also have the right to their own life and freedom to decide and live as they please.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-698	Mr. Old President! This afternoon we are debating and making important decisions. Now we are going to talk about sending Swedish soldiers to Mali, one of the world's most dangerous countries. Since 2013, Sweden has contributed to the UN stabilisation operation in Mali – Minusma – but also to the EU-led EUTM training operation in the country. In addition to military engagement in Mali, Sweden has in recent years scaled up aid efforts to both Mali and the region as a whole. Sweden is, after the US and the EU, the third largest donor in the country. Mr. Old President! At the same time as we will phase out the camp in Timbuktu, we will send a light shooting company that is proposed to be stationed in Gao, the capital of Minusma's eastern sector. But the Swedish strength grant should also be used in the entire Minusma area. Of course, it will provide more opportunities for Minusma's military efforts to have our skilled soldiers in place. However, developments in Mali are going in the wrong direction. The security situation continues to be serious in the country, particularly in its central parts where Gao is located. Violations and violations of human rights related to the conflict are reported regularly. These include lawlessness, extrajudicial executions, torture or other degrading treatment, sexual violence and arbitrary detention. Mr. Old President! Nearly half of the population is under 15 years of age. Recruitment of child soldiers takes place to a large extent and is a major problem. Punishment is widespread. The problems resulting from low and, in some cases, non-existent state presence in the central and northern parts of the country have become more evident and pose a challenge to the rule of law principles in Mali. I am very grateful that this summer I had the opportunity to visit our Swedish operation in Mali. It gave many insights and reflections on the military efforts but above all on the synchronisation of the civilian efforts. As things stand today, our military operation is very good. They're good, they're professional, they're brave. They are also highly appreciated for their proactivity. However, it limps on the civilian intervention side. They don't always sync with the military. Progress in the implementation of the peace agreement has been limited. In early 2018, a new administrative law was adopted to regulate the decentralisation commitments of the peace agreement as well as a roadmap for the implementation of the peace agreement. However, in the second half of 2018, the peace process lost momentum, partly perhaps as a result of preparations for and implementation of the presidential elections. Managing the country is of course difficult, but here the major civilian efforts that the UN and Sweden, among other things, are doing better should be able to support to strengthen the state presence in the central and northern parts and strengthen the work on democratic values and human rights. Mr. Old President! The Swedish strategy for development cooperation with Mali runs until 2020, i.e. the same time as the proposed mandate for the Swedish military operation. The strategy covers a total of SEK 1,200 million over the period and is channeled both bilaterally via Sida and through core support to a number of UN agencies. We Moderates think that what we do – all this money in aid and this dangerous effort we send Swedish soldiers to – should have a clearer plan. We therefore believe that the government should return to Parliament with an overall assessment of Sweden's military and civilian engagement in Mali in the long term. Mr. Old President! As far as aid is concerned, the focus should be on humanitarian aid, climate aid and gender equality. I'm just saying, all these garbage! I think I took a hundred pictures of garbage while I was in Mali. Actually, it was crazy. At the camp in Timbuktu it was sorted according to the Swedish model very well. It was order and order. The problem was then that when the garbage was collected they were driven out into some field. They were placed in a fine pile that was then set on fire. What if Mali could be helped to find out and not deal with it as it is now? The soups are burned, then the ashes are used as fertilizer for their crops. If they were helped to deal with this, they would have both better food and better water. This, in turn, would lead to better health and better climate. Mr. Old President! We in the Moderates believe that there must be good opportunities for steering and evaluating the efforts made. Furthermore, the experience of the Swedish operation in Afghanistan shows the importance of the need for aid operations to be well coordinated with the military efforts in order to have maximum impact. Therefore, it is particularly important that any changes in the military contribution be taken with the Swedish aid strategy for Mali. Until now, Sweden has contributed qualified intelligence units to the Minus Main movement, units that form a limited resource and are also needed for education and interventions in Sweden's neighbourhood. The fact that Minusma is a UN-led effort has meant limitations in the Swedish contribution of strength to act. One example is the UN's problem of developing relevant medical evacuation capabilities. The proposed Swedish contribution to Minusma in the coming years will consist of a light shooting company with a national support unit in parallel with the decommissioning of the Swedish camp in Timbuktu. It is good that Sweden has done and is making extensive efforts to improve the situation in one of the more troubled regions of the world. But we must always bear in mind how best we use the limited resources that Sweden has. The Swedish Armed Forces have on several occasions pointed to the problems of Swedish participation in extensive long-term rotation efforts such as the one in Mali. On the one hand, they have a negative impact on critical functions such as security monitoring, logistical support and national management. On the one hand, the Swedish Armed Forces points out that international efforts must be linked to the construction of national defence in the coming years. Based on this, the Swedish Armed Forces recommends that Sweden concentrate its efforts on fewer operational areas and that Swedish participation should be prioritised primarily for NATO-led operations, second to EU-led operations and thirdly to UN-led operations. We Moderates believe that the Swedish Armed Forces' views are relevant in the light of the challenges facing Swedish defence in the coming years. Sweden's international efforts must be of maximum benefit, and in a deteriorating security situation in the immediate vicinity of Sweden, national needs must also be given priority. In the context of the forthcoming defence policy proposal, we have reason to return to this fundamental issue, but the priority order of NATO, EU and, lastly, UN action seems to be a good priority. We Moderates believe that the Swedish military contribution to Minusma should be phased out in its current form. However, there is a need for a thorough analysis of the possible consequences of such decommissioning – both civil and military in Mali, but also on the basis of Sweden's security cooperation. Mr. Old President! This is precisely why we believe that the government should return to the Riksdag with a letter that together presents how the government views Sweden's continued engagement in Mali in the long term and what resources are required – military operations, aid activities and diplomatic and political resources on the ground in the region. Such a statement should also include an assessment of the impact of continued action in Mali on the construction of national defence. I commend the Moderate reservation.
i-79W4Visthe2CxgzmcKkCru	Mr. Old President! Today, the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is being debated on the continuation of Swedish participation in the UN's stabilisation operation in Mali. Five years have passed since the first personnel from the Mali 01 intelligence unit arrived at the newly built camp outside Timbuktu. Since arrival, work has been demanding and far from risk-free. However, the Swedish contribution of strength has solved its tasks in an exemplary way. As Swedish citizens, we can be proud of our contribution to Mali and its people. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of putting a Swedish armed force at the disposal of the UN in Mali until 31 December 2020, but we have a reservation in the report. According to the Government proposal, humanitarian needs in Mali and in the Sahel region continue to be extensive. The region is affected, among other things, by armed conflicts and a deterioration in the environment. According to the UN, 3.9 million people in Mali are in need of humanitarian aid. Malnutrition is widespread. The need for sanitation and clean water is great. 2.8 million people are reportedly in need of food security. We Swedish democrats therefore believe that Sweden should increase efforts on humanitarian aid, water, sanitation and agricultural development in Mali. Another important issue that I would like to raise is the need for increased humanitarian aid for vulnerable refugees in Mali's neighbourhood. The needs are extensive, and we therefore want Sweden to increase aid to this vulnerable group. Mr. Old President! As I mentioned earlier, the Swedish Armed Forces and their personnel have done an excellent job in Mali. We would like to express our deepest thanks to all the officers and soldiers who are carrying out an operation there. The decision is made that the focus should now be on national defence. Therefore, we need to look at how the reconstruction of the Swedish total defence can take place as quickly and efficiently as possible. There lies the responsibility of us politicians to turn every stone around. This means that activities may need to be down-priorityd due to resource conflicts. It concerns, among other things, international operations. I will read one of three strategic targets that are part of the Swedish Armed Forces' support for the defence policy bill that we will be debating here next week: Participation in international military operations contributes to interoperability and to building the ability of Swedish national war units and staffs. That is the objective which may most clearly have an impact on national capabilities by the fact that the experience and skills of participating personnel, both as individuals and as units, cannot be acquired elsewhere in a sharp military multinational operating environment. In order to achieve this goal best, and at the same time avoid greater restrictions on national production capabilities, the Swedish Armed Forces strives to ensure that the contributions of force deployed in international military operations are as similar as possible to the existing military units.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-730	中 Endurance and the timeliness of the operation is another variable to consider. The Swedish Armed Forces advocate a procedure in which international military operations are concentrated and limited to 1 – 2 years. This means that important operational experience can be acquired while reducing the risk of fatigue in vital functions such as logistics, management and intelligence. Such a procedure would make a real contribution to building the ability of Swedish armed forces and staffs, while at the same time making demands for decision-making and demarcation. ..................................................... In this reconstruction, we need to set tough priorities. The Swedish Democrats believe that we are contributing to Mali's stability, but we need to review our long-standing armed engagement. In order for Sweden to be able to withdraw its armed forces as responsibly as possible, this should be done with good foresight. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose that the Swedish armed force of the United Nations stabilisation operation in Mali, Minusma, be dismantled and that the decommissioning be completed by 31 December 2021. Having said that, Mr President-in-Office, I am in favour of reservation 2 in the report.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-733	Mr. Old President! What we are now discussing is Swedish participation in the United Nations stabilisation operation in Mali. However, as in the previous debate, which dealt with our efforts in Afghanistan, I would like to begin by thanking all men and women in uniform – those who are doing fantastic work at the moment in Afghanistan, Iraq, Mali and elsewhere. But I would also like to thank their relatives and friends who are there. I would also like to include those who have previously been in Korea and in various places in the world, where Swedish troops have made great efforts. It is their efforts that have enabled us to stand up in the way we have done. It's important for me to start by saying that. As has already been said, this effort has been in place for five, almost six, years. For so long we have contributed to this stabilisation effort. We have contributed militaryly with an advanced intelligence operation but also in various ways with assistance. In this region, Sweden has made great humanitarian efforts, and this has been important. At the same time, we have to say that there is still great concern down there. Now the effort we have made in Timbuktu will be phased out, and it will be another type of effort. We Christian Democrats are not against this effort, but we, like the Moderates, want us to evaluate the effort and also look at how we use our resources. We have limited resources. The fact that it is a UN-led operation has also meant different types of problems. There have been problems with Medevac – it is therefore a question of being able to come to the rescue by helicopter if people are injured. It is an example of limitations we have had. The Swedish Armed Forces themselves have said that it is primarily best for Sweden to participate in NATO-led peacekeeping operations, secondly EU-led operations and thirdly UN-led operations. It is important to have with us as we evaluate this and see what we should invest our resources on. After all, we are also seeing a tougher security policy situation in our neighbourhood, which we must ensure we are able to cope with. Therefore, in this reservation together with the Moderates, we want to see an evaluation of the operation and Sweden's long-term military and civilian engagement in Mali so that we do it in the best possible way. With these words, Mr President-in-Office, I would once again like to endorse the reservation.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-739	Mr. Old President! Mali is a country that is not very often mentioned in Swedish reporting. However, the reporting that still exists is often about human suffering in the wake of the security crisis. A simple article search gives a rather disappointing picture of the situation in the country: I'm afraid this is a long way to go, Mr. Old President. Mali is a country severely plagued by complex internal conflicts and by poverty. For about five years, Swedish military personnel have been operating in the country within the framework of the UN stabilisation operation Minusma. Its mandate comes from a Security Council resolution aimed at monitoring and supporting the ceasefire agreement, supporting the peace agreement and protecting civilians. As everyone knows, it is ultimately we here in Parliament who are directing our participation in international operations, and now we are about to decide to extend the operation in Mali for another year. One difference compared to previous years' extensions is that the Swedish effort in 2020 will be relocated and receive some other data. Until Sunday, when Mali 10 moved to Mali 11, the Swedish contingent was based on Camp Nobel in Timbuktu. There a decommissioning begins, and the force will be stationed in Gao. In parallel with the Gao force contribution, we will maintain a force for the decommissioning of the former unit grant in Timbuktu. Today we are not going to write a financial report on Sweden's efforts in Mali, but we can note that our contribution in Timbuktu with an advanced intelligence capability has been highly appreciated and requested and indeed also broken new ground within the UN system and UN-led efforts. The unit has delivered qualified intelligence information that has helped senior managers to move forward with a better decision-making basis. In Gao we will contribute with a light shooting company. Mr President, we are a number of members of the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committees who have had the privilege of visiting the unit in Mali over the years. On site and on site, follow the work and join foot patrols in nearby villages and in everyday life at the camp in the frying 50-, sometimes 60-degree heat provides an insight into the terms of the operation that even the best Powerpoint presentation can not match. It also reinforces the humility of the men and women who make the effort possible: the soldiers, the officers and the other staff. This is how Advent times inevitably reflect on the price paid by our senders, both in terms of risks – Minusma is one of the most dangerous UN efforts – and the personal sacrifice of being far from close and dear. On Sunday we light the second Advent light. Around the corner awaits Christmas, a time that for many of us is about being with those who matter most. At the same time, far away in the Southern Sahara Desert, our envoys are working to support some of the world's most vulnerable people in one of the world's most trying environments. Let us send a thought of gratitude to the Swedes who stand up for peace and security and a better world. You're making a difference. You make us all proud. With this, Mr President-in-Office, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-749	Mr. Old President! We Moderates think it's important to have an operational effect. That is why we believe that civilian and military efforts should be evaluated. We think that synchronised efforts are needed to get the most bang for the money. I wonder what it is the Social Democrats and the government is afraid of showing up. Why don't you want an evaluation?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-751	Mr. Old President! I wouldn't say we don't want an evaluation. As shown in the bill, however, there are obvious methodological challenges for a country like Sweden, a small piece of the puzzle in a large effort with many countries and several thousand involved, when it comes to picking out our part and saying that it is exactly this and this that is the Swedish contribution's part in advancing the positions. We're trying to look at the bigger picture. As I mentioned in my speech, it is clear that the effort we have made so far in Timbuktu has made a clear positive contribution to the move forward of the UN as an organisation in the field of peacekeeping and stabilisation operations. We have introduced a new capability, intelligence, into the overall operation, and that is a clear effect that we have seen. The UN also confirms this. It has been highly appreciated and is, of course, part of an evaluation of the operation. We also have overall goals, and I included some of them that are also set out in the bill. We have to strengthen the UN as a peacekeeping organisation. We will support other force-provoking countries in building their capabilities. We have the feminist foreign policy in which we work to strengthen the influence and empowerment of women and girls, which we are actively working on in Mali. So we have a number of goals of a more comprehensive nature that we are working on in Mali.
i-FDqZTnABmsChh7AaGRtSfR	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Kalle Olsson, for your answer. Just because you have a number of goals does not automatically mean that they are met. You need to follow up on the delivery. I think that evaluation is important, and although we are only a small part of a major effort, it is nevertheless the case that Sweden is the third largest donor to Mali. Then you should be able to sync the stakes more. Does Kalle Olsson not agree?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-757	Mr. Old President! I have absolutely nothing against evaluation. I'm just trying to say that it's not always as simple as just thinking that you can reduce it to a stick hunt or to checking in a number of boxes, but we're part of a larger structure. Of course, aid and what we do militarily should be sought to sync, if we put it that way. At the same time, it cannot be avoided that the situation in Mali today is very serious, very tense and very dangerous. Many times it may be that a prerequisite for us to come up with the aid efforts we are making in Mali, and in the wider Sahel region at all, is that we can also maintain protection. This is often the necessary start in order to guarantee the protection of the civilian population, but also of the aid organisations and others on the ground.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-759	Mr. Old President! The international situation means that Swedish contributions to military international operations will continue to be in demand. These are both smaller units with special abilities as well as more traditional and quantitatively larger units. Our Swedish contribution promotes overall security policy interests and a rule-based multilateral world order based on the UN Charter. Our Swedish participation is a way to show solidarity and deepen cooperation with countries and organisations that are important for the security of our neighbourhood. For the Center Party, the deteriorating security policy situation in our neighbourhood cannot be an excuse for Sweden to back away from participating in international military as well as civilian operations. Although it will take time and effort and considerable resources to develop our national defence capabilities and total defence capabilities, we should not back off from the responsibility to also contribute internationally. We have to look outside. We need to see the links with what actually affects our security here at home, in our neighbourhood, in cooperation in Europe and in Europe's neighbourhood. We're not isolated. On the contrary, we need to contribute in the long term to promote our security. We must also start from the resources and abilities that exist at home with what we are good at and what we need to be better at, where we need to prioritise. There we can contribute in other countries and in efforts, as we do in Mali and have done in recent years. A strengthened war organization in Sweden in accordance with the Swedish Defence Committee's proposal also strengthens Sweden's ability to contribute militarily in operations internationally. The connection is extremely important. With increased resources at home, the opportunity to contribute internationally is increasing, and we are also developing our capabilities. This can be seen from the experience of operations in Mali, for example, over the last five years. The efforts have been extremely important because they sharpen our ability development at home, and they give sharp experience. It is important for recruitment and for developing skills. Not least, what we can contribute to other countries' ability development and what can be done together is important. The Center Party is in favour of continued participation in the efforts in Mali. We also understand that Swedish involvement in the areas is important. It is important that we build security with others. The situation in Mali is extremely serious. The security situation is deteriorating. There is still a threat to international peace and security. We see terrorism, serious crime and trafficking in human beings, and we see that the problems in Mali also have consequences in Europe. The environment is complex: military problems with asymmetrical threats. The mandate for the Minusma operation is to support the government's ability to regain control of the entire territory, which it does not have today, in order to achieve a sustainable political solution. We have taken note of previous contributions to the debate, including from the Swedish Democrats. There has been more focus on aid and less on military intervention after 2021. I think we should start with the current situation. When the country for the day does not have control over the entire territory, it justifies continued efforts, and this justifies that Sweden continues to provide support. Sweden's contribution is now proposed to consist of a light shooting company, which together with a national support unit with, among other things, medical capabilities and personnel for the operation and maintenance of national infrastructure and equipment will form part of Minusma's overall capability. Sweden's contribution will be relocated to Gao. It will be possible to use the strength grant throughout the entire area of intervention. In the new group that has gone down, the dismantling of the infrastructure in Timbuktu will begin. Mr. Old President! The action is still based on an international law basis with a mandate in international law. Our Swedish unit will contribute to stability in the operating area through patrolling and presence. The mission is combined with a great deal of responsibility and great risks in a situation of serious security policy. Many Swedes have been present in Mali and served on behalf of Sweden, and many will continue to operate. Individual soldiers, officers and also civilian employees and their relatives shall meet with the utmost respect. I would also like to extend a very warm thanks for the efforts that have been made and the future of our mission, which will contribute to a safer world. I support the report and support the proposal for a decision.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-772	Mr. Old President! Hello to all of you watching the debate! Today, therefore, we are debating Sweden's operation in Mali, where Sweden participates as part of the UN stabilisation operation Minusma. In August, together with four other members of the Defence Committee, I was present in Mali and had the opportunity to visit Sweden's camp outside Timbuktu – Camp Nobel. It was three intense days where we were able to take part in the great work that is being done within Sweden's efforts on the ground. We received fantastic presentations from the people responsible for the operations in Mali 10, i.e. the tenth group of Swedes in Camp Nobel. Every six months the group changes, and today we welcome Mali 10 home and wish Mali 11 good luck in its work in the next six months. There are now quite a few Swedes who have been present in the efforts in Mali. To visit Sweden's camp in Mali was of course a great experience. It gave a much greater understanding of how life and work are during an international effort. You are far from family and friends and the everyday life that lives at home. You live under a constant threat of security. Sometimes you have little opportunity to communicate with your family at home, and of course you can't tell them everything you do during the day. It is also a very warm country, with all the practical problems involved. We also got a good picture of how the cooperation within the UN operation works in Mali. It usually goes well between the countries in place, but sometimes there are challenges. It was valuable to gain a better understanding of the overall evolution of Mali. Mali is a country where developments are not really moving in the right direction all the time. We are a long way from sustainable peace and democracy in Mali. We thank Mali 10 very much for receiving us and giving us so much of your time to tell, show and answer all our questions. Mr. Old President! Of course, I would also like to thank all those who have participated in an operation in Mali and in other countries where Sweden is or has been present. You who participate make great sacrifices in your lives. It's a long absence from family and friends at home. It is a work that involves great risks. The relatives who remain at home waiting often do so with a great feeling of anxiety. Even the relatives at home are of course worthy of all our gratitude and support needed to make everyday life at home work. The bill put forward by the government gives us a background to the situation and security situation in Mali at the moment. It shows that Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world where there has been armed conflict for a long time. There are major problems with drug and arms trafficking, kidnappings and terrorism. The security situation in Mali is difficult. There is a signed peace agreement, but it has since been broken. The conflicts are partly based on climate change, which we see in the form of reduced precipitation and large droughts. The drought has forced the people to leave their homes, and poverty and vulnerability have increased. Here we see how important it is to see climate change and natural disasters as a security policy threat and as a basis for war and conflict. Combating climate change is therefore also a work for a much more peaceful world. In contrast, we live in Sweden in one of the world's most peaceful and richest countries. It is therefore self-evident that we in Sweden should participate in international efforts and promote peace, democracy and development in the world. We do this in different ways. Above all, we do so through assistance and with various forms of expertise to help build democracy and democratic societies. However, we also contribute with the military in order to preserve security and protect the civilian population. It is important that we always see the root causes of war and conflict and actively work internationally to prevent conflicts from arising. Sweden's various forms of aid work are therefore preventive work to avoid wars and conflicts and suffering for the civilian population. Madam President, I would like For the Left Party, it is incredibly important that Sweden's international efforts take place under the leadership of the UN and with clear support in international law rather than being led by individual countries or by NATO. Here we see a big difference between the parties in the Swedish Parliament, in which the Moderates and the Christian Democrats in this House in particular today have advocated NATO action instead of the more obvious UN work. Respect for international law, the one that the UN is actually set up and created to protect, must always be included in the groundwork. However, although we in the Left Party are a great supporter of the UN's work for peace and development, we must also recognise that the UN has shortcomings and shortcomings. The UN needs to be democratised and become more equal. Sweden shall have a prominent role in the various parts of the UN's work and contribute to the development and improvement of the organisation. It is our joint responsibility as a peaceful, democratic and rich country. Finally, I am pleased that the Government's proposal so clearly points to the participation of women on the basis of Resolution 1325. We in Sweden will do what we can to support the work for peace, democracy and development in Mali and its neighbours so that the people of Mali will live in freedom, peace and democracy in the future and together decide on the future of their own country. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-790	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the veterans who have served in Mali in the past, the relatives here at home in Sweden who are part of the operation in their own way and those who are currently serving or will be serving in this important operation. As said earlier in the debate, the situation in Mali is extremely tough. There are complex conflicts, and the development is serious. This means that the need for an effort aimed at increasing stability is particularly important. We are needed in Mali because we can contribute to stability. We can help build stability that leads to peace, freedom and democracy in the long term. We are needed both militarily and in terms of aid for that very reason. It has been said here before, Madam President, that it is a troubled time in our neighbourhood. It's true. It is a troubled time in much of the world. And when times are troubled, it is up to our societies, those of us who live in democracies, to take greater responsibility also in the rest of the world. We need to equip here in Sweden and ensure that we have a strong defence of our borders so that we can guarantee our freedom while, through participation in the rest of the world, taking responsibility and building stability in other parts of the world, helping to allay the concerns there too. When we do this together with others, we get a more stable location and more security here at home. It's connected. Worried times require great efforts both here at home in Sweden and on participation in other parts of the world. Madam President, I would like Liberals have been critical of this effort, not of how it is done, but basically of the mission. It is a criticism that we continue to have. There is an excessive lack of follow-up and evaluable targets for this action. In the report, there are approaches to this type of objective. It is positive that it is moving in that direction, but that is far from enough. We will not ask for anything other than approval of the proposal. We do this because we believe that it is important that we join forces here in Parliament and give unison support to those who are now serving in Mali. At the same time, however, I would like to point out, and we would like to make a special statement, that it is important that we continue to monitor and evaluate, and that we ensure that the effort gets evaluable goals that make the effort better and that the follow-up from us here in the Swedish Parliament is better.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-797	Madam President, I would like Sweden's commitment to peace and development in Mali and the Sahel region is strong, and a continued Swedish contribution to Minusma is fully in line with that. In addition to the effort we are debating today, many other things are being done that are also part of achieving peace and stability in Mali. We have a strategy that involves comprehensive humanitarian aid and bilateral development cooperation. Sweden is one of the largest bilateral donors to Mali with humanitarian aid via Sida. We also provide humanitarian aid through a multi-annual, non-allocated core support to, among other things, the UN Emergency Fund and other UN agencies active in Mali. Sida's support goes to initiatives in areas such as food assistance, health, nutrition, water and sanitation, protection and education. The Swedish support is channelled through several UN agencies in the country as well as through the International Committee of the Red Cross and international organisations such as the International Rescue Committee and the Norwegian Refugee Committee. In addition, experts are made available through the Swedish Civil Protection Agency. Cooperation and cooperation are important key words for success. Continued development and humanitarian support to Mali and the Sahel region is of the utmost importance, both through Sida and in the form of continued unallocated contributions to the humanitarian organisations. This increases the opportunities for organisations to maintain preparedness and act quickly when new crises and needs arise. As we know, needs are enormous. The situation is complex, and climate change and hunger are fundamental elements of the difficult security situation. Madam President, I would like There is a clear mandate in international law for the current operation in Mali. Swedish participation responds to a direct request from the UN. In addition to the mandate of the UN Security Council, there is also an invitation to the UN from the Government of Mali. The protection and respect of international law, including human rights and international humanitarian law, is central. This should permeate action at all stages of the planning and implementation of an operation. Women's participation in peace processes and in peace and state building is also a prerequisite for sustainable peace and security. I would therefore also like to highlight here in particular UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security and its subsequent resolutions. They are an important part of MINUSMA's activities and the implementation of its mandate. The UN has given a strong mandate which, among other things, has given Minusma a good opportunity to increase the security of people in need, as well as of humanitarian aid organisations active in Mali and the region. This also requires a well-trained contribution of strength. Here, Sweden contributes and increases the overall military capability. The overall objective of Sweden's participation in the operation is to contribute to the fulfilment of Minusma's mandate on improved security in Mali, including by restoring control over the entire territory, and to support sustainable political solutions to the crisis in the country. By participating in the UN stabilisation operation in Mali, Sweden is a partner in the work to increase security, prevent conflicts and create the conditions for sustainable stability and development in Mali as well as in the region. This is incredibly important at a time when the world needs to get better and not back in development. Here, too, I would like to extend warm and heartfelt thanks to those who actually carry out this effort. Being part of our work for peace and development under difficult conditions deserves respect and gratitude. What you do with your own sacrifices is important to the world. I would therefore also like to support the committee's proposal.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-809	Madam President, I would like I had almost hoped that I would have the floor for a fire speech. Let me begin by saying that the Moderates are not taking part in the decision on this area of expenditure because, in the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given policy a different direction than we wish. Moderates' budgetary options should be seen as a coherent package in which no parts or parts can be broken out or treated in isolation. In a separate opinion, we describe a different direction. Madam President, I would like One detail in this context, but still important enough, is that this budget area also actually deals with the Swedish Institute. It has been a debate about what image of our country is being conveyed – a criticism that some politicians have taken quite lightly. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, however, we have had representatives of the Swedish Institute, and my impression is that these were more self-critical and therefore willing to self-correct by removing and in some cases adjusting texts. The communication of factual and accurate information shall be carried out. Madam President, I would like We live in a more unpredictable and uncertain environment, where several of the cornerstones of our foreign policy and our collaborations are changed and challenged. It concerns EU cooperation, the transatlantic link and the rule-based world order that prevailed during the post-war period. The unpleasant realization that neither democratic development nor democracy can be taken for granted has also fallen in. The latest example is the Social Democratic Prime Minister in Malta, who announced his resignation when suspicions of the murder of an investigative journalist have crept ever closer to him. The security situation in the immediate vicinity of Sweden has deteriorated, and the responsibility lies with an increasingly threatening Russia. Since the war in Georgia in 2008, Russia has strengthened its military power. In addition, the aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014 show that Russia does not shy away from using military means to move borders. Let us say this: there is a war going on in Europe when Russia attacks Ukraine. In parallel with China's growing economy, it has ever greater security policy ambitions, not only in its neighbourhood but also globally. President Xi Jinping's goal is for the country in 2049 to be a dominant power, economically, politically and militarily. The fact that the country that is predicted to be the world's leading economy is expected to be an authoritarian state challenges our interests, our values and ultimately the prevailing world order. Let us say this: we are behind the struggle for freedom in Hong Kong! We demand the release of the kidnapped and imprisoned publisher Gui Minhai and condemn the labour camps and political detention camps in China to which Uighurs but also others are sent. In Syria, President al-Asad-Assad has a secure position, partly because of Russian and Iranian support. The war, which is about to take place in its ninth year, has cost the lives of over 370 000 people and has given rise to millions of refugees. Following Turkey's attack, the regime of Al-Assad has returned to north-eastern Syria, where Turkey and Russia have set up joint patrols along the border. President Trumps's announcement of American troop withdrawal and the decision to abandon an important partner in the fight against IS, or Daish, was not just a betrayal of the Kurds in Syria. The decision also sends alarming signals to allies around the world and has been strongly criticised by both congressmen and military leaders in the United States. Daish no longer controls any real territory in Syria or Iraq. Nevertheless, the organisation and its sympathizers still pose a very serious threat. Let's say it: The fight against Daish continues! And those guilty of murder, abuse and crimes against humanity should be held accountable to an international tribunal on the ground. Madam President, I would like The surrounding world I describe places demands on Sweden as an international player, and the importance of effective international collaboration cannot be stressed enough. This is now more than in many years. Sweden must therefore pursue a more active foreign, defence and security policy. Sweden's foreign policy shall be based on Swedish interests. Our common values regarding human rights and freedoms, democracy, the rule of law and the market economy must always guide these interests. These values do not require individual strategies, but should permeate all Swedish foreign policy. The most basic interest in Sweden is the security of the country and the population. Another interest in Sweden's foreign policy is our common prosperity. European cooperation is crucial for peace and freedom in our part of the world and for our common prosperity. But the EU is also Sweden's most important foreign policy platform. It requires Sweden to pursue an active policy to influence the EU's positions and then that the EU pursues an active policy to influence its environment. By deepening the EU's foreign, defence and security policy and making decision-making more efficient in the field of foreign and security policy, we can more effectively face a troubled world. Madam President, I would like Let me give you an example and convey a picture. The Romanian Cultural Institute has awarded the author Cecilia Hansson Sorescu the prize for 2019 and SEK 50,000. She was published a few years ago with the interview book Hopeless, but not seriously. In it she lets various contemporary voices from the culture of our continent come to the fore. After Communism and fascism, which with its inhumanity plagued our Europe, new threats can be seen today. It is about survival and resistance to combat censorship and oppression. This is a central basis for all that moderate foreign policy is about. Freedom is truly in the interests of our country. Let us say this with a paraphrase on Cecilia Hansson's book title: It is serious, but not hopeless. Madam President, I would like To meet the deteriorating security situation in Sweden's neighbourhood, continued efforts are required on Sweden's defence and a Swedish NATO membership. Over the last 70 years, NATO has contributed to peace and stability in Europe, but also in other parts of the world. NATO is perhaps more important than ever for the security of northern Europe after the Russian aggression against Ukraine. Despite Sweden's extensive cooperation with NATO, we are not full members. We are not covered by NATO's joint defence guarantees. The Moderates want Sweden to apply for NATO membership. Together with a stronger national defence, it is our top priority to increase Sweden's security. At the same time, Madam President, we must be humble and not deny that NATO itself is facing major challenges in the future. But over the years, the organization has proved capable of changing and meeting new conditions. For the foreseeable future, there is no better defence cooperation that seriously strengthens Sweden's security. We are now seeing this in NATO, when the political leaders are meeting in London. Norway, Denmark, Iceland, the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and even Albania, Madam President– everyone is there, but not Sweden. Let's say: security is built and formed with others. Finally, Sweden also needs to continue to strengthen cooperation and affinity with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. A renewed and integrated approach is needed for increased cooperation with like-minded countries with which we share interests in the immediate area and around the Baltic Sea. Closer North European cooperation must focus on those areas where we have the most to gain from deeper cooperation and where we face the greatest threats and risks – primarily security, the environment and trade. Let's say: Hanson formed our part of the world centuries ago through trade and exchange. The time of the new Hansan is now!
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-829	Madam President, I would like When it comes to Category 5 International cooperation, we differ in terms of the proposed spending framework. We are therefore not taking part in the decision on paragraph 1. The background to this is that, unlike some other parties, this year we have chosen to invest additional funds in deeper Nordic cooperation as well as on the next generation of female leaders, through the Swedish Institute. The Swedish Democrats regard Sweden as part of a Nordic community. The unique cultural qualities that unite the peoples of the Nordic countries under shared values, we believe, should be defended, not weakened. Our countries have a lot in common, and Nordic cooperation has worked very well for a long time. Nordic cooperation, through its friendly, mutually beneficial character, has provided good conditions for valuable exchanges in areas such as trade, technology and defence. But also in the field of cultural education, we see an interest in promoting cooperation from the Swedish side. In a globalised world, we want to do what we can to strengthen Nordic identity and broaden and deepen Nordic cooperation. One area we want to see increased efforts in is therefore the linguistic exchange between countries. The Nordic countries have a common cultural heritage and shared values. And a cornerstone of the community that connects the Nordic countries are the Nordic languages. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to allocate additional funds to improve internal vocabulary and support efforts for cultural exchange. As regards our efforts within the framework of the Swedish Institute, we see the Institute's focus on promoting gender equality as a concrete tool for promoting women's situation internationally. The Institute is currently running a program called She Leads, which aims to promote future female leaders in Saudi Arabia and their relations with counterparts here in Sweden. The religiously motivated repression of women is widespread in a number of other states across the MENA region. Sweden has a moral responsibility to promote gender equality in places in need. We therefore believe that the Swedish Institute should establish similar partnerships with a focus on the next generation of female leaders in other corresponding states. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to invest additional resources annually for the next generation of female leaders. Although marginal, we believe that this increased investment is an important contribution for the Swedish Institute to continue to pave the way for the next generation of female leaders. For a more complete account, I refer to the specific opinion that we have attached to the report and which shows our particular efforts at the Swedish Institute and Nordic cooperation. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 1. I could not ask for a reply to Mr Wallmark, Madam President, but I would like to ask two questions because Mr Wallmark, here in the speaker's chair, was advocating Swedish membership of NATO. One question is: Does Hans Wallmark think that the tension would increase or decrease in our area if Sweden became a member of NATO? In all probability, Swedish membership would also give rise to Finnish membership. I think Mr Wallmark agrees with this. This would result in the Baltic Sea becoming an inland sea with NATO countries. Does Hans Wallmark think that this would increase or reduce tension? The second question to those who advocate Swedish membership, including Hans Wallmark, is: Is Hans Wallmark prepared to send Swedish soldiers to support the dictator Erdo中an in Turkey and his aggressions in the area there?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-838	Madam President, I would like It is my pleasure to correct Björn Söder on several points. First of all, he could have taken a line on me, because that's the rules of debate. This may be good for others to know in the forthcoming debate. Secondly, I believe that the line of uncertainty that has now contributed to the reduction of safety in our Baltic Sea region. The Swedish democrats themselves have talked about some sort of arms fraternity with Finland, but I do not understand how our security could increase if you have cooperation beyond the peacetime with a country but not if you have it with another 28 countries. This makes no sense to me. In that case, you can drive on the line of strict neutrality, and it does not represent the Swedish Democrats. Finally, Madam President, there is a common issue that the anti-NATO patrol, consisting of a very strange coalition of Swedish democrats, environmentalists, social democrats and left-wing parties, sets out in Sweden. They usually say we have to send troops to Turkey if we become members. Turkey has attacked Syria, Madam President. Which NATO countries have sent their women and men to Turkey? None, for the simple reason that NATO is a common defence alliance. It's not an attack alliance. It is a matter of defending together if one country is attacked, and then, Madam President, I wonder if it would not be good for Sweden that, in the event of any country attacking Sweden, we know that other countries are coming quickly to our aid – Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, France and the United States. What you advocate is the policy of isolationism, Björn Söder. What I advocate is the policy of security policy.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-844	Madam President, I would like Moderate analysis is as flawed now as it was when it was considered a good deed to dismantle the entire Swedish defence capability. You're making the same mistake once again, Hans Wallmark. It is clear that the Baltic Sea region will become a NATO sea if Sweden joins NATO and Finland does the same. This would, of course, cause reactions from certain countries around us. As a small country, you cannot play hasard with Swedish security, but you must of course take account of your surroundings. The analytical capacity of Mr Wallmark here, Madam President, is extremely lacking in this sense. Yes, it is true that we advocate stronger cooperation with Finland. It is also something that is accepted by both NATO and other countries around us. What you do not want is a military vacuum in this part of the world, and you cannot do that if we equip our defence capabilities with Finland. We believe that it is much better to equip with Finland, which would stabilise the whole situation here. As far as Turkey is concerned, Mr Wallmark talks hotly about Article 5 and that NATO can help us if we are attacked, but that is something that goes in both directions. If another NATO country is attacked, Sweden must also assist on the basis of the needs that exist. As far as Turkey is concerned, they themselves claim that they have not attacked or invaded Syria without defending their borders and fighting terrorism. In a situation, albeit theoretically, where Turkey is being attacked by Syria together with Russia, for example, because they want to fight back the invasion, Turkey can trigger Article 5 by saying that Turkey is being attacked. Then the NATO countries would be obliged to come to the rescue. Where is the interpretation representation within NATO? If Turkey were to consider itself being attacked, can the NATO countries and the others say, ‘No, we do not believe that you have been attacked' and so on? This goes in both directions, and it is important that Sweden can assist other NATO countries where assistance is needed.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-849	Madam President, I would like NATO itself decides, within itself. Björn Söder says that the risk of Sweden and Finland becoming members is that we get a NATO sea and that this can lead to reactions from elsewhere. If you are a friend of Sweden, Madam President, shouldn't the Riksdag in Stockholm be the one to decide our security policy? The Finnish Parliament in Helsinki should decide Finland's security policy, not the Kremlin gentlemen. Then I agree that you should invest in the defense. Then it is interesting to note that the Swedish Democrats in their draft budgets are at the levels of the Social Democrats, while we are proposing more money in the budget that is on the table of the Riksdag. In addition, if one country is attacked, the others must hurry to this country's help. If Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have the opportunity, I am absolutely convinced that they will protect and help Sweden. However, Björn Söder, Madam President, does not wish to assist in the event of an attack on Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-853	Madam President, I would like If you are a friend of Sweden, you protect the Swedish people and the Swedish security. Then you do not play hasard with Swedish security, as Hans Wallmark does. This has been done for many years when the Moderates led this country, with the lack of analytical ability they have had. I would never ever put my faith in this analytical ability, which has proved to be so flawed that the Swedish defence capability has been dismantled, so that we have been without defence. Now the analysis is made that the best thing is to join NATO. It is, of course, the case that we should work closely with NATO. We Swedish democrats are friends of NATO and think NATO is a great organisation to cooperate with. But going from that to becoming a full member means creating geopolitical instability in our part of the world. If you really take Swedish security policy seriously, you must also consider what the environment thinks and thinks – what measures will be taken and what consequences it will have – when we make decisions here. I think that's the most important thing.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-855	Madam President, I would like Since Carl Bildt's time as Foreign Minister gives Sweden financial support to the American think tank Atlantic Council. The think tank is working on global security issues and transatlantic cooperation. Other donors include NATO, a wide range of NATO countries, several large oil companies and oil producing countries, and the Swedish arms manufacturer Saab. In short, the Atlantic Council has close ties with NATO and the oil industry. The Left Party does not see NATO or NATO-related think tanks as part of Sweden's peace and security promotion activities. Therefore, we propose that SEK 10 million be taken from the Atlantic Council and other similar organisations. Instead, they should be used to reduce security policy threats in a different way. Russia is today a threat to security policy, first and foremost to everyone in Russia who opposes the rule of the Kremlin or who does not fit in with the society that Putin wants to build. For Russian LGBTQ people, feminists, indigenous representatives, environmental movements and leftist activists, the Kremlin regime is a daily security threat. Russia's imperialist policy also poses a direct threat to the population of several neighbouring countries – Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and the countries of Central Asia. Thirdly, the Putin regime poses a security policy threat to Sweden and a threat that must be taken seriously. However, if Russia develops in a more democratic direction, it will also pose a less security policy threat. Therefore, the Russian opposition – not some fake parties but the real and courageous opposition, consisting of LGBTQ activists, feminists, human rights defenders and environmentalists – needs the support of the outside world. To support them is to support democratic development in Russia and to improve security in the outside world. Therefore, the Left Party wants to step up Swedish support to Russian civil society with an annual incremental increase of SEK 10 million for the grant called Cooperation within the Baltic Sea Region. In total, the increase will be SEK 60 million. The ITUC International Union ranks 142 of the world's countries based on the degree of respect for human rights in working life. Russia is ranked as a third on a five-point scale, which means that there are regular violations of trade union rights. It is virtually impossible to organise a legal strike, which makes it difficult to put pressure on employers in negotiations. During the preparations for the Winter Olympics in Sochi in 2014, 70 construction workers died. Migrants from Central Asia and the Balkans were lured by promises of wages that in many cases were never met. Testimony of fake contracts, loss of wages and punishments against those who dared to protest were common.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-864	The Left Party stands up for the right to organise trade unionism everywhere in the world. Organising in free and independent trade unions is a fundamental human right. The current performance strategy for Sweden's support for democracy, human rights and the environment in Russia 2014– 2018 does not mention trade union rights or workers' rights. This shortcoming should be addressed by the government when the strategy is now to be renewed. Press and freedom of expression have also been severely restricted over the last 15 years. Today, mass media with a wide reach are heavily controlled by the regime. The effective propaganda of the regime provides citizens with the information and message adapted to the interests of the regime. Critical voices are censored, and independent journalists who try to convey an objective picture are at risk of reprisals. In the press release index presented annually by Reporters Without Borders, Russia is placed in place 149 out of 180 countries surveyed in 2019. Under Putin rule, the Russian regime has passed several new laws that restrict citizens' freedom online. Internet operators are now forced to store their users' internet traffic and are forced to cooperate with the security services. Many websites have been blocked, and it has become illegal to encourage participation in demonstrations that have not yet been authorised in social media. The Left Party is concerned about developments in Russia and believes that clear action is needed on the part of Sweden. The Government should therefore give greater priority to the protection of freedom of the press and expression in Sweden's performance strategy for Russia. In spring 2019, further steps were taken to restrict freedom on the Internet when the law on a sovereign internet was adopted. Like China's very closed internet, the law that gives the authorities even greater scope to completely limit Russian users' access to free internet is an attempt to create the same. According to the Russian organisation Roskomsvoboda, which defends the Russian digital rights, security is only a pretext for further increasing control over the communication and collection of information by the Russian population. Sweden, as an individual country as well as a member of the EU and the UN, should work to strengthen freedom on the Internet in Russia, we believe. Conscience prisoner is the one who has been imprisoned after having expressed his opinion on a peaceful basis. Prisoning someone because of their opinion is a clear violation of human rights. Nevertheless, states imprison, torture and execute people because of who they are or what opinions they have, with the aim of shrinking democratic space and strengthening their own power. The best known to the public are Dawit Isaak, who has been imprisoned in Eritrea for over 18 years, and Gui Minhai, who has been imprisoned in China for more than four years. Neither Dawit Isaak nor Gui Minhai are convicted of any crimes. The left party picture is that the government usually does what it can in the difficult task of assisting Swedish prisoners of conscience. At the same time, it is clear that rhetoric and methods differ according to the state in question. For example, rhetoric has been more cautious against major economic powers such as China. The Left Party has on several occasions called for the government to act more clearly and forcefully. The fate of Dawit Isaak is above all a human tragedy. A family man has been separated from his family for political reasons. In 2001, the President of Eritrea decided to put an end to all criticism of the country's leadership. The independent press was closed, and politicians, civil servants and at least 11 journalists were imprisoned without trial, including Dawit Isaak. Dawit Isaak is the Swedish who has spent the longest time in prison without either prosecution or judgment. He has not been allowed to meet his family, no lawyer or any Swedish diplomats throughout this long time. The Left Party believes that it is time to compile the various efforts that have been made for Dawit Isaak and other prisoners of conscience in order to best know which working methods work best. Dawit Isaak is risking his life as it is, regardless of quiet diplomacy or not. After 18 years, it is time to try new strategies. The government should therefore set up a commission of inquiry to compile the various efforts made for Dawit Isaak and other prisoners of conscience. Although the Left Party has great confidence in the government's work in getting prisoners of conscience released and has a great understanding that everything cannot be disclosed openly, lack of results and secrecy risk leading to a decline in confidence in the government's efforts. The Left Party therefore believes that greater transparency would be welcome. Against this background, the Government should report in a letter to the Riksdag as much as possible of the methods used and the efforts that have been made and made, and in the parts that must be secret to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like Today there are carnations in the Parliament's bouquet. With the above, I call for the Left Party's reservation 2 and note our special opinion on the budget and that we do not take part in that decision.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-882	Madam President, I would like For those who have just arrived in this House, I would like to say that I think we have had a rather tense and interesting debate. After all, I asked for a reply before the vote, Madam President, and there are a number of reasons for it. I think Håkan Svenneling is a very nice debater to listen to. I do not share his views and do not support his party, but I think he usually gets quite interesting posts – so this time too. I still have to point out a few things. I wonder if he himself sees that he is falling into the arms of the former speaker Björn Söder in the NATO marking. You reason in a similar way. I think that both the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party are a little blinded, Madam President. It is noticeable when you look for such details as that we interact with the Atlantic Council. Madam President, I would like We can now welcome Håkan Svenneling with the broad majority in the Swedish Parliament that we should have the NATO Parliamentary Assembly right at the heart of the Swedish Parliament. It was really only, as I understood, the Left Party and the Green Party that had a different view. Once again, there is a similarity in NATO opposition, this Siamese twinship between the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. Then I share a great deal of the analysis that Håkan Svenneling presented regarding the view of Russia and our need to see what Russia has still not completely disappeared under the rule of Putinism. Free independent groups are not many, but they exist. There are free independent voices. I think that there should be an argument, without falling the Left Party into the arms of this budget line, about how we can in different ways help strengthen Russian civil society, those oppressed by Putin, those whom we should be upset that they are living on the shadow side of democracy.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-889	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Mr Wallmark for the praise he gives me. About a year ago, Hans Wallmark asked me about the Russian policy of the Left Party. I replied a little soaringly that I wanted to come back to it, and I guess today has been such a day when I have come back to it. The reason for this was that we were planning a new motion on Russia by the Left Party. We also presented it during this year's general exercise period. It is a long and extensive exercise where we lift up Russia and what the relationship with Russia means to Sweden. I have also been travelling in Russia and met the opposition groups we are talking about. It is important to remember that in Russia opposition, which I and Hans Wallmark represent together against the government, is not a word but two, depending on whether you are part of the opposition within or outside the system. I believe that it is those who are outside, those who are most vulnerable to Putin's regime, that we from the Swedish side should support. I think Hans Wallmark and I agree on that. With regard to the remark about NATO and the fact that the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party would do the same analysis, I do not really agree with Mr Wallmark. The Left Party has a century-old history, the Swedish Democrats have a considerably shorter history. We have been part of the peace movement in Sweden for a long time of the centenary history. Perhaps I and the Left Party are the strongest advocates of Sweden's arms exports not going to belligerent countries and dictatorships. For me, it is an important part of how we also view our NATO membership and our security policy. In this budget we have raised the think tank Atlantic Council. It is a think tank to which the Swedish government pays money but which produces extremely strange reports when it comes to security policy. Among other things, it has been said that there is a Trojan in the Swedish parliament that would like to support Putin. It is completely unthinkable for me that we should support organisations that point out Swedish MPs and call them Trojans and other kinds of very ugly words. That is not the security policy that we should have.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-895	Madam President, I would like Let us not spread outside this House that Hans Wallmark may have been involved in influencing the Left Party to reform its Russian policy. However, Madam President, I must say that I have also noted this change. There is a completely different maturity in the conduct of the Left Party in Russia today that is worthy of honour. I even got a button from one of the free organizations you met. As far as Russia is concerned, I think it is crucial to realise that it is about both soft and tough security. There, I think the Left Party has made significant advances in its view of the soft security of strengthening civil society. However, I believe, Madam President, that the Left Party is still finding it difficult to see the harsh security and military threat posed by Russia. Russia's regime is a threat to its population, but it is also a threat to its neighbours as a military force. That is why we must strengthen a Swedish defence and ultimately join NATO.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-899	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark wants to define safety as soft and hard, but I am not so sure that this is the division that the Swedish Parliament should use. I think it is very important to have a good relationship with Russian civil society, to be clear with the Russian regime in those parts where we do not share their views and to have diplomatic contacts. But we must never give way to the human rights abuses in Russia that the regime is behind. So would tough security be some kind of military goal? In that case, we can note that the Left Party has the same funding in its defence budget as the government for both 2010 and 2021. We have made it clear that the Swedish defence needs to be improved, but that we need to see other threats than just the Russian, such as the climate threat. It is important that we do not contribute to rearmament around the world, but that we actually have transparency and openness between our great powers. We see, for example, Trump counteracting that a lot today.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-903	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark had time to ask for a line before I did. We had the same question from the beginning, namely about the attitude of the Left Party and Håkan Svenneling towards the Atlantic Council. I was about to cross myself, but then I heard Håkan Svenneling's answer and got really worried. The Left Party is against NATO membership, as we Social Democrats are. Sweden cooperates closely with NATO, and we are a partner country, which is a good solution. It is also an argument for us to support the Atlantic Council. In this way, we will have transparency and, to some extent, the ability to influence the direction in which policies and assessments are developed. Now Håkan Svenneling says that the reason for wanting to cut back on this grant is that he thinks part of the Atlantic Council's reports are strange. Then Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party enter the same path as the Swedish Democrats, who in both culture and research want to review and control the funding. It is important for research and culture to be free and applicants, and then we politicians should not evaluate and govern whether we want to give grants or not, depending on what we think of the research results based on personal preferences. Research should be independent. This is not a research institute, but it is an institute that engages in activities that are close to research and that aim to develop ideas and ideas for the future. My question to Håkan Svenneling is: Does this also affect the Left Party's view of Sweden's and Finland's trilateral agreement with the United States?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-909	Madam President, I would like Politics is about setting priorities. I made it clear that our budget priority is to cut back on money for the Atlantic Council and other similar NATO think tanks and instead put them on developing our relations with Russian civil society. That is the Left Party's priority, as we propose in our budget. The Social Democrats propose other priorities. Some of them are good, and I'm behind them. Others aren't good. Madam President, I would like I am very concerned about the NATO approach which Kenneth Forslund, on behalf of the Social Democrats, has been representing for several years and which I have repeatedly criticised in this House. Now we see a Social Democracy that is following the Moderates and slipping ever closer to NATO membership. They say that they do not want to, but are happy to drift all the time – so far that they have invited the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to this House. We have discussed this before, and we do not need to enter into a long discussion on it. For me, it is a problem that a think tank that likes things about transatlantic cooperation and is therefore not free research produces reports that say that a number of MPs are Trojan horses. To withdraw that grant is not to stop free research. In that case, the Erdo中an's SETA Institute, which has pointed out several party colleagues to me and Kenneth G. Forslund as a security threat to Turkey, would also engage in free research that should be protected and supported. No, it doesn't. We must criticise all kinds of false reports, and we shall make that clear. Then the Swedish Government will not finance this type of activity. Carl Bildt took this initiative at one time because he likes everything called transatlantic and the United States. The Social Democratic Government should stop doing this.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-913	Madam President, I would like Transatlantic cooperation is and has been for many decades something very Social Democratic, so do not try to make it some kind of newly won Social Democratic attitude. Stop also with the almost ridiculous myth that the Social Democrats are sneaking into Sweden in NATO. That's not how it works. Sweden has cooperation, and we shall continue to have our partnership with NATO because it is good for us, for NATO and for the security of our part of the world. Sweden should not be a member of NATO, but we have another security policy arrangement. My question to Håkan Svenneling is still: Is your NATO resistance and ultimately US resistance so strong that you also want to end the trilateral defence cooperation that Sweden and Finland have with the United States?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-916	Madam President, I would like Let me say that I was at today's US seminar in Parliament and not Kenneth G. Forslund. I am extremely interested in American politics and what is happening in the United States. However, the fact that the Social Democrats and the Green Party are supporting a think tank dealing with oil, arms and NATO is not getting me together. The Atlantic Council is supported by oil states, NATO countries and weapons lobby, and that, of course, sets the agenda for what that organisation is working on. I am not going to support this, and that is why Sweden should withdraw this money. The question of cooperation between Sweden, Finland and the United States is a little ad hoc in this context. But let me put it this way: I think it is important that Sweden cooperates closely with Finland. I am more hesitant about the rapprochement with NATO and the United States, and that is why the Left Party has marked, for example, in the Iraq bill for one person in the NATO operation.
i-AJY5GCRgronZeJrnr6MEsG	Madam President, I would like Initially, I support the Christian Democrats' reservation, No 3, under paragraph 2. During Decision Point 1, the Christian Democrats refrain from taking a position in the grant decision. The Christian Democrats stand for a value-based foreign policy. It is a policy aimed at strengthening peace and democratic development and contributing to understanding, reconciliation and human rights. Christian democratic foreign policy is an expression of the fact that we all have a responsibility for our neighbour. Human dignity is universal and can never be relativised from ethnicity or geographical boundaries. In the unstable situation that prevails in our surrounding world, it is crucial that we from Sweden take our share of responsibility for security and peace. Sweden will continue to support and contribute to joint efforts in peace promotion, security promotion and conflict prevention activities. We are doing this mainly by supporting and contributing to joint efforts in multilateral cooperation in the EU, the UN, NATO and the OSSE. In addition, foreign policy should promote free trade. Free trade and a market economy are the way forward for increased prosperity, and that is the tool for lifting people and communities out of poverty. At the same time, international trade agreements should be used to a greater extent than today as a political lever against authoritarian regimes that violate human rights. Hopefully, it can lead to more people getting a chance to live in safety and security. On the basis of these principles, foreign policy will promote Swedish interests in the outside world. Sweden will be an active player in the international collaboration bodies where we operate, from the Nordics to the global ones, and we will contribute to these collaborations being conducted as efficiently and as results-oriented as possible. One of the foundations of every democracy is freedom of expression. Nevertheless, we know that journalists and bloggers are being imprisoned worldwide today. For 18 years, Dawit Isaak has been innocently imprisoned and isolated in the Eritrean dictatorship. Both the Swedish Government and the European Union must now step up their efforts in this deeply upsetting and tragic case. If Dawit Isaak is not released, it must have consequences by freezing the EU's aid and development cooperation with Eritrea. In China, too, Gui Minhai, who has been detained, needs to step up his work. Demands must be made for a tougher line on the part of the EU towards China and other countries that imprison innocent European citizens. Madam President, I would like The central arena for Swedish foreign policy is and remains the European Union. The EU's strength lies in the common core of values and in its historic capacity to cooperate and overcome contradictions. The fact that the EU Member States speak with one voice in foreign policy is fundamental. Without unity, Europe's countries become players in the margins. Without closer foreign policy cooperation, Sweden's ability to contribute and make a difference is reduced. If the EU does not act otherwise. There's no vacuum. In the absence of a common European policy, we have seen countries such as Russia, China and Turkey advance their positions. Not least in the Middle East, they are increasing their geopolitical influence. Unfortunately, this weakens the work for democratic reforms and human rights. A similar bleak development is seen in countries such as Syria, Iran, Venezuela and Cuba, to name but a few examples. Madam President, I would like With fundamental values of human dignity, freedom and democracy, Swedish foreign policy must never compromise. When these values are challenged today by authoritarian regimes and violent movements, it is more urgent than ever before to build peace and security together with others. We do so within the framework of the European Union. We do this by strengthening our relationship with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. But we also do so by deepening relations with the defence alliance of Western democracies. NATO cooperation is flawed. Developments in Turkey are very worrying. However, NATO has long been central to both our own security and that of Europe. The Christian Democrats maintain that Sweden should apply for full membership of the Defence Alliance as soon as possible. As the Secretary-General of NATO has made clear, there is a difference between being a member and being part of a partnership.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-929	Madam President, I would like It is important to have a strong Swedish international presence in both international organisations and the work of disarmament and security policy, at a time that is becoming increasingly anxious and complicated. I think that the Vice-President of the Committee, Hans Wallmark, gave a quick and good exposé of all the difficulties that surround us around the world. At the same time, it is important to point out that there is a fairly large and broad consensus on the direction here in the Swedish Parliament between all eight parties. In terms of the budget, what we are currently debating is SEK 2 billion. Of course, there is an enormous amount of money for everyone, but it should also be noted that more than half of that money goes to membership fees to various organisations. The economic options presented by the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are about pluses and minuses in various positions with a few millions, sometimes 10 million. There are therefore small differences in terms of the total budget volume of EUR 2 billion. But millions are also big money. Above all, they show the direction they wish to take and the priorities they wish to take. So they should not in any way be belittled. Madam President, I would like Overall, however, there is this broad consensus on the direction in which Sweden will work and how we will continue and continue to work towards a more stable world, a more peaceful world and a decommissioned world, where we have, above all, succeeded in arming down weapons of mass destruction. It is precisely the efforts on the disarmament of weapons of mass destruction that are an important part of this policy area. It is an area in which Sweden plays a very important role internationally and can continue to do so, partly also because we are not members of the NATO defence alliance. It is not a main argument for not being in NATO, but it is important to remember this and keep it in the back of your head. Not being a member of NATO also offers opportunities for Sweden. It is not just that we must refrain from things, as it is sometimes presented as. Madam President, I would like With this in mind, I would like to support the proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report No 1.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-932	Madam President, I would like As the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs points out, there are a few different things hidden between all these different posts. Let me touch three of them! The first is the Swedish Institute. I think that there has been a little different quality of the comments from the Social Democratic Party regarding some of what has been published on the Swedish Institute's website, where, as it has been understood, there has been a too glossy picture of the possibility of receiving grants and other forms of support if you come to Sweden. We have had the opportunity to meet the new Director-General of the Swedish Institute, Madam President. I thought she was very clear. There was a clear self-criticism and thus an understanding of the need for self-rectification by the Swedish Institute. I wonder how the Social Democrats view this. The second is that it concerns 2 billion for various areas of expenditure, which you mention, and that one of those areas of expenditure is the Council of Europe. How do the Social Democrats view the fact that Russia has now been accepted as a full member in a completely different way than before? There has been such cooperation at ministerial level, but now Russia has been released into the Parliamentary Assembly – with the help of Swedish Social Democrats and in violation of the other parties from the Swedish Parliament who were down there. The third, Madam President, is something that deserves praise. These organisations include the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE. I think it is a good thing that Sweden is now clearly applying to become Chairman of the OSSE. European security is important. It is important that Sweden is a committed country in international cooperation. What separates the Social Democrats and the Moderates, Madam President, is that we believe that Sweden, in addition to being active in the OSSE, the Nordic Council and the EU, should also be active in NATO.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-936	Madam President, I would like We have also had reason to look at the activities of the Swedish Institute. We have been able to note that in any case most of what we have found was good and accurate information about Sweden and not some glossy picture or exaggeration, but on the contrary a nuanced picture. If it is the case that there are materials which can be criticised and which the Institute itself knows are not representative and sustainable, and therefore chooses to remove, of course, I welcome that. In the applicant we have had on the various platforms used by the Swedish Institute, we have not been able to find the materials. On the contrary, we have found a very correct and balanced description of Sweden there. It is, of course, important to continue with. If it is then that there is a single or a single material that does not meet the standards, I welcome the fact that they are being removed. As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, and once again allowing Russia to be an active member there, it is a decision taken by the Parliamentary Assembly there. I can see that there are different views within different parties. We can only look at the North. There we can note that in our neighbour Norway Hans Wallmark's corresponding party colleagues make a different assessment of this. Different assessments have been made. The overall assessment has been that Russia's participation in the work is nevertheless beneficial and useful for the organisation. It should be remembered that our criticism of Russia's actions – the annexation of Crimea, the war in eastern Ukraine and a long list of other events – remains. We have the opportunity to discuss this further in the Council of Europe, among others. Otherwise, I thank you for your support for the Presidency.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-941	Madam President, I would like With regard to the Swedish Institute and its image communication, it must be noted that SI is clearer than S. That can be noted. The second concerns the Council of Europe. There are several politicians and several countries that have acted strangely and wrongly. But now I am not in the Norwegian Parliament but in the Swedish Parliament, Madam President. It is notable that the Swedish delegation, which, I understand, agreed not to open the door to Putin's Russian delegation, was pruned by the Swedish Social Democrats. There is cause for regret. There is also reason for the Social Democrats themselves to regret how they came to act in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is an important body, just as the OSSE and some other things I have mentioned. The legitimacy that Russia is seeking should not be given it.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-944	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by emphasising the thanks that I did not have time to give earlier to support our presidential candidate for office in the OSSE. I hope it will work out. We'll see about that. I look forward to it if we get the Presidency. With regard to the Council of Europe, the overall assessment of a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been that it is better to have Russia inside and be able to discuss with them. It is also about the possibility for Russian citizens to have their rights tested. Then it is important to continue with the criticism and questioning of Russian action in the course of our work. Then there is another opportunity to debate these very issues of the Council of Europe with advantage. That is when we deal with the letter on the activities of the Council of Europe in committee and in this House. I'm looking forward to it.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-947	Madam President, I would like This concerns Category 5 and not the whole foreign policy approach, which we are debating on 12 February next year. This is about 2 billion. I can agree with what has emerged earlier and not least from Mr Wallmark. He indicated that we are living in an increasingly uncertain and unpredictable environment. I couldn't agree more. I might add in that part that we see the sloping plane here and there, Madam President. The powers of authoritarian populists are growing all the time. It's about the club of leaders like Putin, Xi Jinping, Erdo中an, Alijev, Lukasjenko, Duterte, Khamenei, bin Salman, Maduro and so on. The list can be made long. That is why it is important that we stand up for human rights according to the interpretation that has been claimed by us since the declaration was adopted 71 years ago and stand up for democracy and the rule of law. We see how it is eroded even among countries in our vicinity and also among countries that have signed the European Convention and are members of the Council of Europe. One reinterprets and believes that everything that is not right, or much that is not right, with the political line of the rulers is actually illegal political influence, that it is illegal and should be stopped. This is done in several of our neighbouring countries. But this is also done in countries far away. We touch on the report as hastily Dawit Isaak and his long devastating prison time in Eritrea. We are unequivocal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Swedish Parliament that this is totally unacceptable and that he should be released. We are equally unequivocal about Gui Minhai and China's actions and what is happening in the camps in Xinjiang. There they have interned those who the regime does not think are in line with their own opinion in order to retrain or train them to the right doctrine. Have we seen it before, Madam President? Yes, we do. It is therefore important that we be clear and stand up for our values and for the liberal order that we have claimed and which has served us and the world so well. Thanks to successes we have had, we have also been able to help many others and stand up for our values globally. The report shows a broad consensus, as has been said earlier, with regard to the appropriations. There are many fees to the multilateral bodies where we see that we are going to be involved in making a difference. We are talking about the UN, the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Council of Europe, the OSSE, the OECD and so on. Here, in essence, we have a common understanding. There are two areas in the report that stand out, Madam President. One is the NATO fear. This is not a report on NATO membership. Suddenly, the Left Party in its eagerness to get rid of everything that smells close to NATO has found the Atlantic Council and thinks that there we should take money. Instead of focusing on the transatlantic link, which we believe to be politically important, we want to do so. They don't like it very much. They want to make money. Then there are the Swedish Democrats, who also dislike a thought. They dislike the Swedish Institute and apparently its mission to promote Sweden's image and want far less to influence the perception of others. They even talk about distorting an existing view in other countries. Try this! That is why they want to reduce resources there. This is the sound of those who call themselves friends of Sweden but who may rather be friends of a Sweden that goes in the tracks of Hungary or Poland. Be careful, honourable Members of this House, to walk along that road! Madam President, I would like It is also exciting to hear about the rebalancing that the Left Party has done and which was praised by Hans Wallmark for the link to Russia. It seeks to build not only civil society – we are there – but also the link between the Baltic States and Russia. That is something that should be applauded at least by the Duma and in all probability also by the Kremlin. They want help with their aggressive Russian agenda against all liberal forces, against freedom and human rights, against LGBT people and against organisations such as Memorial, which are being shut down. They do not even care about the European Court of Human Rights, which has condemned Russia not only one but several times because, with their legislation and their actions against LGBT people, they discriminate against citizens. They murder LGBT people and other citizens, not least in Chechnya. Yet there were those who voted in this Assembly for the Russian Duma's representatives, who passed these laws, to regain the right to vote in the Assembly of Members of the Council of Europe precisely on the grounds that access to the European Court of Human Rights was needed. Unfortunately, Madam President, both the Kremlin, Putin and the Russian leadership choose to ignore what is not right. It chooses à la carte from its own menu in terms of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. That is why we have felt that we need to move on. This is not in the report, but I would just like to point it out when we talk about some other issues. We have highlighted the law of Magnitsky as a way of overcoming precisely the unwillingness of some countries to act when human rights are violated, and this is done without any process of the rule of law. We want to support the Russian human rights forces and the democratic liberal forces, and we do so in different ways. But we also see that many of them are faced with a harsh and aggressive Russian legal system and also by other actors who threaten, hate and even murder journalists and dissidents – those who are perceived not to stand up for the right doctrine. It is a story that we have seen and that we have not yet come to terms with. Hopefully, as part of the efforts we are making in multilateral structures, we will move forward and succeed. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-963	Madam President, I would like I note that the time available to us for our speeches is eight minutes when we are debating the budget. That is why I did not mention the Baltic countries in my speech; it unfortunately had to be ironed out. But Kerstin Lundgren talked about what I have written and what I think about the Baltic countries. I felt that Kerstin Lundgren misinterpreted what the Left Party thinks and thinks about the Baltics. In my previous job, I have worked with rural development in Europe – or it has specifically been in Sweden, but I have been in Europe at that time. The Baltics have been one of the places I have been when I have worked with rural development. What is clear when it comes to Russian-Baltic relations is that people live side by side in the Baltics, those who see themselves as Russians in the Baltics and bales who see themselves as bales in the Baltics. But it is very clear that you often point and say: That village is Russian, and that village is Baltic. There is a measure of integration, but there is also a degree of division. What does Sweden need to do in such a situation? Of course, we need to support processes where this division is reduced. If we were to divide shows and Swedes in Swedish society today, just as it was when we had conquered Skåne, we would have a very strange relationship in Sweden today. We therefore need to strengthen the links that exist between different ethnic groups and help in the Baltic countries so that the rights of the Russian minority are safeguarded, but at the same time they can be part of society. This is a cause for concern today, and it makes it a cause for concern in Russian and Baltic relations. Another thing we write about is Russian influence operations against the Baltic countries. This is perhaps something that right-wing representatives often raise in this kind of debate, but I would like to point out that the Left also sees this type of influence operation. It is important that we increase the resilience both here in Sweden and in the Baltic States to Russian influence operations, because they are precisely about restricting human rights and freedoms and our democracy.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-969	Madam President, I would like However, reading the report and the reservation shows that it is not just about integration processes in the Baltic States between different groups. To what extent it is now requested from the Baltic States, I shall leave it unsaid; we also have a great deal of discussion with colleagues in the Baltic countries. Madam President, I would like I also see that the Left Party wants to act to reduce tensions or to build links between the Baltic States and the large country of Russia. It is an exciting entrance for a left-wing party to be the actor who wants to open and run that process. We know that Russia has a clear agenda: Russia is threatening our Baltic friends. Because they are members of NATO and the European Union, they feel that it may not be as bad as it would have been if they had not been. When the Left Party, which thinks NATO is a threat, says that it wants to start discussing how to build relations between the Baltic States and the Kremlin, it feels, Madam President, as a wrong task to prioritise from the Swedish side. Possibly it doesn't feel that way to a left-wing party.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-972	Madam President, I would like I feel that Kerstin Lundgren misinterprets and boils up what I think and think in a rather strange way. I've been to Russia and the Baltics, which I've been into. In Russia, I just met Memorial, as Mrs Kerstin mentioned. I was at the transgender festival in St. Petersburg, Trans 2019. It was a mark from there that Hans Wallmark received as a gift from me afterwards. I imagine that if we are to reduce the threat to Sweden and the threat to the Baltic countries, we will promote good relations at diplomatic level between our countries. It's important. That is why I think we also need to increase support for civil society in Russia. We need to support the Baltic countries in their relations and promote good relations so that there are no tensions and conflicts. Sweden should be present all the time in the sometimes tense relationship between the Baltic countries and Russia. We shall be there as a buffer and a support where we stand clearly on the side of the Baltic States and not on the side of the Kremlin.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-976	Madam President, I would like To stand clearly on the side of the Baltic countries is that Sweden joins NATO. It is a discussion that we are having in another context, because that is what they are asking for. Today we are a threat through our choice. I think it is clear in the debate that the Left Party chooses to tone down and keep NATO away. NATO should be careful, apparently, and instead approach Russia and be a bridge builder. With this attitude, I understand that the Left Party wants to bow to the visits, even if meetings are held with Memorial and others. They say, "Be clear! Do not bow to Russian propaganda! Stand up for your hosts! These are the liberal values that we have built our country, Europe and the West from outside. It is not the values that Russia believes it wants to raise both the Baltic States and its own citizens from outside.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-979	Madam President, I would like It has been raised several times in the speaker's chair during the debate that we are living in a troubled time. It is a time when democracy is under threat in large parts of the world and a time when human rights activists of various kinds are subjected to enormous pressures in the form of repression, threats of violence and violence. The authoritarian forces and populist forces are growing stronger. We here in Sweden live in a free country. We take freedom for granted a little too often. However, we who live in free countries have a responsibility to support democracy and human rights and to support human rights activists and LGBT activists wherever they are in the world. We can do that with aid. We can do that with military action when necessary. Today, in this debate, however, we are talking about how we can do that by using our international cooperation. The UN is absolutely crucial. The EU's foreign policy is absolutely crucial. The work in the OSSE is of course also absolutely crucial, precisely in order to secure free elections and to ensure that democracy and human rights are respected throughout the world. Madam President, I would like Together with the Center Party, we have entered into a January agreement with the government that means that we support the budget. This does not mean that we support all foreign policy policies, which are largely outside the January agreement. It makes this a little complicated, but I must say that I am pleased with the shifts that can be seen in the Social Democrats, for example. It was said here earlier from the Left Party, which provoked me a little, that the Social Democrats had approached the Moderates in their view of NATO. It is the Moderates, Madam President, who have moved to the position of the Liberals in their view of NATO. From the beginning, the view is that we should have NATO membership from the Liberal Youth League. Then the Liberals were brought along, then the Moderate Youth League and the Christian Democrats Youth League were brought along, and finally their two mother parties were brought along. If it is the case that we see a shift in the Social Democrats, I do not think that we should give credit to the Moderates, but honor the one who should be honored. Of course, we cannot have just the UN, the EU and other important international cooperation, but we also need serious international defence cooperation in the form of NATO. Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is important that we engage in the UN, the EU and the OSSE. I look forward to more debates in this House on what we can do with that commitment. For example, we in the Liberals are trying to get the government to set its foreign policy agenda to support, if Taiwan so wishes and requests, an election observation mission to Taiwan when they have elections in January. This could, for example, be done through the OSSE. Taiwan is not a member of the OSSE, but the OSSE has been involved in election observation in countries outside the OSSE in the past, for example in Afghanistan. It could also be done through the UN or the EU. Madam President, I would like I also noted that in the party leader debate held a while ago, the Prime Minister had moved, at least in part, to the position of the Liberals in terms of European foreign policy. Of course, if the EU is to be an effective tool in terms of international cooperation and foreign policy, it needs to be considered whether the EU's foreign policy is really to be decided by unanimity. We don't think so. It cannot be that, for example, countries that are on their knees in China and are members of the European Union are blocking a strong European foreign policy or that countries that are closely linked to Bolsonaros Brazil are blocking a strong foreign policy, on the other hand. We need to change the decision-making process on European foreign policy. Madam President, I would like In addition to these issues, I would particularly like to highlight our Nordic and Baltic neighbours and how important it is for us to have even deeper cooperation with them. When the world is as worried as it is, we must safeguard our international cooperation and our international methods and opportunities to spread democracy and human rights in the world, but we must also ensure that at home we defend the democracy and human rights that we actually have, both here and in our neighbourhood. Madam President, I would like With those words, I support the proposal and the committee's proposal and thank you for the debate after seven hours of debate in this House.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-987	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell has really made a hero of being a debater in the Swedish Parliament today. I think he will top the list of the heaviest debaters here in Parliament. I can welcome him to that club, because there I have also been high up. This is, as Joar Forssell was on, the first budget that the Liberals are doing together with the government. What you then think about when you come to Category 5 is what the Liberals have got for policy in this area. When you presented last year, 2018, the shadow budget that then became not the government budget but the napkin sketches, you proposed for the 2019 budget that we cut disarmament by 9 million. You suggested that the Sipri Peace Research Institute should receive 3 million less. And so you suggested that what Joar Forssell was on now, a road map for NATO, should receive 10 million. The budget supported by the Liberals today strengthens disarmament, rather than cutting it down, by SEK 15 million. Disarmament issues are also strengthened in general by investing in the establishment of a China centre, which is also part of disarmament policy. What one wonders is simply what the Liberals have got out of this. How close are we really to the NATO roadmap that Joar Forssell is dreaming about?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-991	Madam President, I would like After all, the Liberals have experience of budgetary and even governmental cooperation both to the right and to the left, and we have never got through our demand for NATO. Then you might think the Liberals are bad at negotiating. We're not. If you read the January agreement and the budget as a whole, you can see that the Liberals may, on the contrary, be the party that, in relation to its size, has achieved the most, both in terms of the budget and in terms of the number of points. When you negotiate in a constellation where you are alone on a position, for example, that we should have NATO membership, it can of course be difficult to get that point through. On the other hand, I am pleased that the Liberals have managed to shift the political debate in this area through urgent opinion-forming. I agree with Håkan Svenneling that we see a shift in rhetoric also among the Social Democrats. I believe that, Madam President, is due not least to the fact that the Social Democrats are trying to move in the political space and approach the middle of Swedish politics in order to secure their support from, for example, the Liberals. I think that is something we can actually take credit for. The same applies, of course, to the Moderates and Christian Democrats, who have also followed the Liberals' line on NATO membership. After all, negotiations, Madam President, take place not only around a negotiating table but also in the general political debate and in how we move the political window. I think that this with NATO and how the government now sees the EU's foreign policy are two examples of quite astonishing shifts from a government party that has been very strongly opposed to this in the past.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-995	Madam President, I would like I should like to welcome the fact that the Liberals have turned the issue of disarmament from wanting to cut the disarmament effort to now stand behind an increase. It is a welcome decision on the part of the Liberals that I think can be very good, because we see a need to raise the issue of nuclear weapons and nuclear disarmament around the world. I believe that the secretariat that can now be made possible thanks to this budget is a very good one, even if it is perhaps a little liberal. I thank Joar Forssell for his efforts today and wish him some rest and tea or something to smooth his voice.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-997	Madam President, I would like I'm going to speak at a member's meeting right after. But after that, maybe there'll be tea and rest. Madam President, I would like I understand that this may be difficult for a party like the Left Party to follow. The Left Party has never been in a government or in the kind of structured negotiations that one has when negotiating the budget. It may seem that the parties are fully behind everything in the budget. The truth is that we in this House are behind what we have negotiated together. This does not mean that party positions have been wiped out. I can tell you a secret: I know that, for example, the Social Democrats are opposed to abolishing the defence tax, even though they will vote in favour of it in this House. I also know that the Center Party has positions that go against what we have agreed. That also applies to the Green Party. It's no stranger than that when you cooperate, you get to give and take.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1001	Madam President, I would like What Sweden does in the world matters, and what happens in the world matters to Sweden. We live in a world where we all have a shared responsibility, both for the development that is taking place today and for what conditions we are handing over to the next generation. Our actions affect the lives of people living in other parts of the earth. And the decisions we take in this House affect so many more than us who live here and now. When anti-democratic forces are on the rise around the world, human rights are being violated and women's rights are being questioned, Sweden's voice for freedom, feminism and democracy is more important than for a long time. And we know that we can only create peace and security with others. The objectives of Sweden's foreign policy are to secure Sweden's interests in connection with other countries and to promote peace, democracy and human rights around the world. With our feminist foreign policy, we highlight the situation and life conditions of girls and women in all international contexts. We can see that it produces results. Sweden needs international institutions to be able to act in the international context. Here the UN is absolutely crucial. The United Nations is a cornerstone of the work that we are able to do in the world. This is possible through our support to the UN institutions. When we decide on the appropriations for that work, it is a clear priority for work on human rights. The UN is the principal administrator of a rule-based world order and a prerequisite for the global work for peace. It is one of the most important arenas for Swedish foreign policy and needs to be at the heart of our global work. But it has not said that other deep collaborations such as Sweden have not been important. The work of both the OSSE and the OECD and, of course, the EU is significant in order to achieve our overall objectives: those that we have jointly set in Agenda 2030. Madam President, I would like Nuclear weapons are one of the greatest threats facing mankind. Disarmament work is a work for world peace. The non-proliferation efforts that will now be made are incredibly important for further work. The risk of nuclear weapons use in the world is increasing as a result of the current international situation and the abandonment of key arms control agreements. In this situation, disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons are a clear foreign and security policy priority for us. The Swedish knowledge base in disarmament policy will be strengthened, and a knowledge centre will ensure that Swedish knowledge is strengthened and updated. This is how we build security and security for the future. Madam President, I would like Free speech is central to creating a free and democratic world. That work needs to be done at all levels. Around the world, courageous people are imprisoned for their words and journalism. Hate, threats and violence against journalists are threats to all of us. Now that we are debating foreign policy in this House, I cannot help but highlight those prisoners of conscience who are imprisoned around the world for taking free speech in defence. Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai are two Swedes who have been in detention for several years in Eritrea and China respectively. The price they have had to pay for their words and their freedom of expression is totally unacceptable. Sweden will continue to fight for their release. But our fight for freedom of expression cannot stay there. No one, regardless of their nationality, shall be imprisoned for their journalistic act. That must be our goal. Madam President, I would like What Sweden does in the world matters. At a time when democracy is going backwards in several states and when the fight for women's rights needs to be taken over and over again, Sweden's voice is more important than for a long time. Together with others, we can build a better world and equip for tomorrow's challenges. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1013	Madam President, I would like We have come together to debate Category 18, which is primarily about the housing policy we have in the country. This type of budget debate is just as much a discussion of what our priorities for 2020 look like as of what we actually got out of our hands in this year. Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that the Minister for Housing intends to take part in the debate. I would have welcomed the fact that during the past year the Minister of Housing had also delivered a single response to how to change and improve the problems we are seeing today in the housing market. I dare say that in 2019 our government has not produced a single bill in the area of housing policy that has in some way contributed to improving and changing the rather difficult situation in the housing market that many people find themselves today. Perhaps a friend of mine would like to ask for a reply to say, "We have delivered a lot of proposals in the area." In fact, the government has submitted six bills. It is true that six motions have been tabled, Madam President. That's about what the Justice Department spits out in a week. And that is what our Minister for Housing has achieved and managed to put on Parliament's table so far this year. What are the six proposals about? It's mainly desk products. The only proposal that one can say with a little goodwill is about increasing the construction in Sweden is about the size of the attefallshusen. It may not solve the most crucial problems in our housing market. Even that bill did not succeed, however, in achieving what has been said. When it was put on our table, it turned out that it contains a proposal which means that most attefallshus will still in practice be only 25 square meters large in the future. Thus, even in this small, narrow issue, the government does not manage to live up to what it has suggested. Madam President, I would like Only a few weeks ago, I and the Minister of Housing had an interpellation debate. I asked a very specific question: why does the government not come forward with a proposal to review the regulation of the credit market which makes it easier for vulnerable groups to enter a dysfunctional housing market? Among other things, we Moderates have proposed that the mortgage ceiling be raised from 85% to 90%. We see that the series of credit regulations currently in place on the housing market has made it difficult for young people to access it because it does not work. This is something that could be done here and now to remedy urgent problems. In addition, however, we need to have a long-term reform agenda. Many certainly had high expectations of the January contract's delivery in this area. Both the Center Party and the Liberals, as at least in the past as market-oriented liberal and bourgeois parties, have had about the same agenda in this area as the Moderates and Christian Democrats. These are effective reforms to remove regulatory problems and to make it easier, cheaper and faster to build housing in that country. We were certainly many bourgeois people who had high expectations of what would come out of the January agreement. But so far, there's only been an investigation agreement. It has to be said that this is a skilful power game by the Social Democrats. It knows how to draw a grindstone in that respect. All issues that are controversial, difficult and difficult are buried in investigations that at most are delivered at the end of the term of office, just in time for the start of the promise statement for the next election movement. However, this does not help all the people, Madam President, who are being squeezed because of today's dysfunctional housing market. Since we have the Minister for Housing, as well as representatives of the government parties and the other January agreements here, we can ask them. Why can we not agree here today to stop measuring noise on the outside of the facade, for example? Why do we have noise regulations for Spider-Man when people actually live in their houses and not on the outside of them? It's reasonable how it sounds inside the houses that matter. Can we not together introduce a time limit for handling appeals against building permits and detailed plans? Can we not make sure that once and for all we agree to phase out the protection of the beach and instead give the municipalities the opportunity to identify particularly protected areas? Then we would get rid of the wet blanket that lies over rural development. Can we not make sure to strengthen the role of the master plan and instead reduce the detailed plan requirement? We would then ensure that new detailed plans are not constantly put in place as soon as someone wants to build something new in an already exploited area. Can we not ensure that a proper regulatory audit is carried out in the area of housing policy? Today we have 3 000 building regulations in the form of Boverket's building regulations, BBR. Do we believe that all of them properly serve their purpose? Or can we imagine that a great deal of these rules increase, delay, and hinder construction in general? Madam President, I would like I would welcome this, and I see no prestige in being the one who gets to take home a political profit. However, this needs to happen now. It can't be buried in constant investigations. That is, Madam President, unfortunately what I see has happened to the January agreement. In conclusion, I would like to say that perhaps the most problematic aspect of this spending area is the fact that the government spends money on Swedish developers. It is money that is not really in demand. I am, of course, talking about the latest version of construction subsidies. Almost every type of such subsidy has been sawed by the Swedish National Audit Office. I am quite convinced that this will happen again this time. Having said that, I would just like to draw the House's attention to our specific opinion in this part.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1029	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin raised interesting criticism of the government and the Minister. I agree with some of this criticism. However, I wonder if the Moderates have better suggestions to make. Let me take an example. One major reason why not enough rents are being built is that construction companies feel that it costs too much and is not profitable. We then have a proposal for investment aid to facilitate construction companies and in some way simplify the whole process. It will be easier, cheaper and safer to share the risk. The construction companies may share the risk with the State when it comes in with an investment aid. The Moderates do not set aside any funds at all and want to phase out the aid altogether. This support is supposed to help construction companies build because it costs too much. The state comes in and helps. I wonder why the state should subsidise the owner-occupied dwelling in a villa and a right-of-occupancy but not the right-of-occupancy housing through interest rebates? Why can't the government come in and contribute here? Why do you want to abolish such an important money that has proved helpful in the construction of more rental apartments so far?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1033	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The simple answer is: We think there are better ways to use state money. Why do we think so? Well, because most of the apartment buildings built with the help of the previous grant had been built anyway. I had a conversation with a CEO of a municipal housing company, who for obvious reasons did not want to be quoted by name. He said: This is amazing, because it ends up in the last row for us. We would have built this anyway. I am convinced that Momodou Malcolm Jallow is familiar with the concept of profit in welfare. If I am not mistaken, it is a concept that the Left Party sometimes comes back to. My counter-question is therefore reasonable: why does this principle not apply to housing subsidies? In which other sector are you prepared to unclaimedly ship SEK 2 billion to private companies to ask them to do something they had essentially done?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1036	Madam President, I would like I don't know what reality Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin lives in. But the reality that most Swedes live in is not built any rental apartments for reasonable rents. That is why there is currently a housing shortage in the majority of Swedish municipalities. It is not true that the homes had been built regardless. To say it is to distort the truth. If that had been true, we would not have had the problem we are in today. This is an attempt to solve the problem. When talking to property owners, they mention a main problem time and again, and that is that it costs too much to build. Then the state comes in and takes some responsibility. The Left Party does not think it is enough. But you are saying that this responsibility and support should be removed. At the same time, you want property to be subsidised. You'd like to increase ROT deductions and all the other contributions you call deductions. Why?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1038	Madam President, I would like One thing is hard to understand. Does the Left Party consider that the housing subsidies that existed during the previous term of office led to the construction of cheap rental apartments that have been available to a weak group on the housing market? The simple answer is that with today's building regulations – as we have designed the requirements for residential construction – it is not possible to produce new rentals with what I assume the Left Party considers to be a low rent level. So the billions that you have shipped out to this past have not led to the gazebo that you are trying to paint that it will lead to. The question is whether you are satisfied with what the housing subsidies achieved in the last parliamentary term.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1041	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by referring to the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats in this area, since our appropriations are above the agreed framework. Madam President, I would like Housing policy is important because it affects so many other policies and affects people in many ways. If we are to have a functioning labour market, we need to have access to rental apartments, flats and villas where people can move in to take the jobs available. We also need to have a functioning housing market in order to combat many of the vulnerable areas that have been identified by the police for many years. We need a functioning housing market to create growth in Sweden and maintain the welfare we have. We need it for those students who need housing elsewhere to be able to study at university or college and to ensure that the labour market has the skills it needs. Everyone understands the importance of this area and the impact of the failure of the housing market. We can see that there is a great deal of competence in this area. There are many who have opinions, both good and bad, and there are many ideas in this area. On the other hand, I feel that there is a lack of political commitment in this policy area. There are not enough good reforms and proposals to overcome the huge shortage of housing in Sweden today. These prices are, I have to say, on the housing market today, both in terms of new production and the existing stock. What we have seen is the proposal to introduce market rents. This is therefore the concrete proposal that comes from the government in the midst of the burning housing shortage in Sweden. I lack political leadership in this area to solve the basics, to overcome the housing shortage and to tackle the vulnerable areas. It would need to be reviewed, on the one hand, how we create increased construction and, on the other hand, how we create greater security in residential areas. More proposals are needed here. I am really waiting for all the reforms that would be needed in this area. We can read in the media every day about the problems that exist in the housing market, especially among young people, who today have no opportunity to enter the housing market because of the high rents and the new amortisation requirements that make it difficult to finance their own housing. This is an important area to look at, and I hope that the government will be able to come back with proposals there shortly. There has been a lot of focus in housing policy on finding housing for migrants coming to Sweden. If you focus on that area, you'll have to iron your foot. The more we push people into the housing market, the greater the segregation. We see an increased overcrowding in Sweden. It's doubled in the last 20 years. Today it is said that in 5 per cent of households more than two people live in each room of the dwelling. We know the effect of overcrowding. It affects studies but also many other things, especially in those areas where it is more crowded – in the vulnerable areas, where today we have major problems to deal with. The problems do not decrease directly when the migration policy we see from the government continues. The first thing we need to do in this area is, of course, to tighten up migration policy. Every year we need to build 10 000 new homes in order to catch up on migration to Sweden. Given that 2003 was the last time there was a balance in the housing market and that the number of homes needed to rebalance the housing market has since increased, everyone understands that if we are ever to catch up, we cannot turn a blind eye to the impact of migration policy on the area we are discussing here today. Above all, I would like to highlight the vulnerable areas. Many of these districts and suburbs in Sweden today have a major problem. We read daily about shootings taking place in these areas and about increased crime, insecurity and people who do not dare to witness. This is an important area, and the Swedish Democrats have put forward many proposals, particularly in the area of justice policy. But housing policy also has an important role to play in tackling the problems. For example, other areas need to be affected, such as labour migration. Many of the people living in the vulnerable areas have no high level of education and are competed out by labour migration to Sweden. This, of course, is a contributing factor to our alienation. The change in the EBO Act, which the government brought in, was a step in the right direction, but it was far from what we needed to get the housing policy and the vulnerable areas in Sweden in order. There is a need for a national action plan that the municipalities can start from when they are going to work to prevent more exclusion areas being created in Sweden but also overcome the areas we have today. We need to develop a basis for building that increases security in new residential areas but also in existing areas. The Swedish Democrats have previously put forward proposals on area planning, where municipalities receive an additional grant that they can apply for to area plans in such a way that blue light personnel can act more safely in the residential areas. This is one of several examples of how we can tackle the security of many of the areas in Sweden where there is increased insecurity today. Above all, there has been a lack of foresight in this area. You have to follow the stacks that are very clear: population growth versus housing. Otherwise, we will only continue to build on the problem in Sweden. We cannot say that we were naive or that we did not see this coming, but it has been clear for many years. I've been telling you this since I entered Parliament in 2014. I think it is time for us to focus on starting to look forward in this area and to ensure that we can once again create a housing balance in Sweden.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1057	Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes that housing is a social right. Housing policy is part of welfare policy. It is a very important part of welfare. Housing policy should be a fundamental part of general welfare policy. Society has a responsibility to ensure that all citizens, regardless of their income, have good housing with good standards at reasonable cost. This requires that the State take greater responsibility for financing both in terms of the production of new housing and the renovation of existing housing. Today, housing policy is neither active nor comprehensive enough. The State has come back in favour of the market. The market will neither build the necessary housing nor renovate the homes that need to be renovated. We must do this jointly through government initiatives. The housing shortage must be met with increased political responsibility in the form of a policy with high ambitions. That is what the Left Party is seeking. Priority should be given to building up the housing shortage with a focus on rentals. This requires state intervention in the form of financial support for construction. Madam President, I would like The draft budget of the Left Party is a plan for equality and green transition. In the draft budget, the Left Party is investing in the well-being of municipalities and regions, reducing economic disparities, prioritising the economically most vulnerable and proposing a large climate package for green change. Madam President, I would like On the other hand, the government's budget proposal, supported by the Center Party and the Liberals, widens the gaps in society and leads to under-financing of welfare in a situation where the needs are high. Nor is the government's draft budget sufficient to cope with the widespread housing shortage. Unfortunately, by its decision of 27 November 2019, Parliament has determined the total expenditure for Category 18 that we are talking about here today. As the Left Party's proposal for appropriations in the area of expenditure is above this level, I cannot reserve myself in favour of the Left Party's draft budget. The left-wing budgetary options should be seen as a whole. That is why I choose to abstain and instead present a specific opinion on the policy of the Left Party in the field of expenditure. Madam President, I would like Large parts of the Swedish million-dollar programme are in need of renovation, energy efficiency and improved outdoor environments. Today, a large part of Sweden's housing stock is more than 50 years old. The need for renovation is considerable, especially for the properties built under the so-called million-dollar programme. Many of these properties consist of apartment buildings, often located in our suburbs. The renovations involve large costs that are mainly borne by the tenants in the form of rent increases. We see that every day. Private property owners, often with foreign finance capital and venture capital in their backs, have recently bought up entire residential areas in our million-dollar programmes, renovated the apartments and raised rents sharply. As a result, tenants who cannot afford the rent increases are forced to move. You have heard of this. It's called renovation. Property owners and shareholders earn money, while poor, low-income earners and pensioners are squeezed out. If you haven't seen the movie Push, I think you should see it. It's important. There the message is very clear. The financialisation of the housing market is a global phenomenon. During the previous term of office, the government, together with the Left Party, introduced support for energy efficiency and renovation of multi-detached buildings, as well as support for the renewal of outdoor environments in certain residential areas. Support is being phased out following the Parliament's decision on the State's budget for 2019. In view of the extensive need for renovation and energy efficiency of multi-residential buildings and the renovation of outdoor environments in certain residential areas, support should be developed and increased, not phased out. The Left Party therefore proposes an increase of SEK 1 billion for 2020 compared with the Government's proposal. Madam President, I would like In addition, State aid was introduced to promote innovative and sustainable construction. This support is also being phased out following the Riksdag's decision on the State's budget for 2019. Today, the construction and real estate sector accounts for about 20 per cent of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions. If we are to reach the climate target set by the Riksdag, the sector must reduce its climate impact from a life-cycle perspective. The aid should be developed and increased, not decommissioned. The Left Party therefore proposes an increase of SEK 50 million for 2020. Madam President, I would like There is a large housing shortage in the municipalities, while the commons are sold out and transformed. Since the 1990s, many municipalities have sold large parts of their public goods either to private hosts or to tenants. It's called transformation. The result is that there will be fewer public-service apartments to mediate, privatisation of our common assets and huge transfers of value from the common to the individual. Madam President, I would like There is a particularly high shortage of rental apartments with reasonable rents. According to Boverket, 640 000 new dwellings need to be built during the ten-year period 2018 – 2027. At least half of them should, in the opinion of the Left Party, be rental apartments with reasonable rents. For these homes to be built, the state needs to take greater responsibility for funding. During the last term of office, the Left Party, together with the government, introduced investment aid to create rental housing and housing for students. Aid has been granted to more than 24 000 new homes. I welcome the fact that the government is providing funds for investment aid, but at the same time I note that it is not enough. In view of the large housing shortage and the decline in new production, aid should be increased. The Left Party therefore proposes an increase of SEK 2 billion for 2020 compared with the Government's proposal. Today there is a shortage of sports facilities in many municipalities. In addition, a large number of existing facilities are in need of rehabilitation. Investment and renovation costs are often very high. It affects the sports movement, especially children's and young people's sports, and risks reinforcing inequalities in sport. In order to ensure equal and fair access to sports facilities throughout the country, regardless of the municipality in which you live, the State should take greater responsibility for funding this as well. The Left Party therefore wants a new appropriation of SEK 500 million called investment and rehabilitation aid for sports facilities to be set up. Madam President, I would like Finally, the current housing policy objective, which should guide the government's policy in this area, was adopted by the former bourgeois government in 2011. A new housing policy objective is needed, reflecting the societal needs and challenges of housing construction. The Left Party believes that the goal of housing policy should be based on giving everyone the opportunity to live in good housing at reasonable cost and in a stimulating and safe environment within a sustainable framework. The housing and housing environment shall be based on people's needs and contribute to equal conditions and, in particular, promote good growth for children and young people. With our policy, we can build away the housing shortage and also renovate and energy-efficient the homes that need it. Sweden is a rich country. We can afford to build the necessary housing and renovate the homes that require it. It is about how we allocate our common resources. We cannot afford to let the market control even more. It will only exacerbate the housing shortage, increase rents and exacerbate segregation. We need to take back political responsibility for housing and restore an active social and state housing policy. With common resources, we can build away the housing shortage. Resources currently spent on the property – interest subsidies, ROT deductions and so on – should instead be used to build rental apartments. Housing is a social right and not a commodity. Madam President, I would like I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 1.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1074	Madam President, I would like Member of Parliament Jallow and Left Party believe in this House that half of all housing to be built should be rented. My simple question, therefore, is whether the Member of Parliament has read at all the reports showing where and how the Swedish people actually want to live. If you read these reports, it is very clear that 60 percent of the Swedish people want to live in their own homes, i.e. villas or terraced houses. About 24 per cent say they want to live in a tenant-ownership apartment, and 13 per cent prefer to live in a rental apartment. Yet you want to force the Swedish people to live in a form of living in which they may not want to live. I am wondering whether the honourable Member can explain why you want to build other than what is being asked for.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1076	Madam President, I would like It's one thing to discuss what people want. It's another thing to discuss what reality is like. Poverty is increasing in Sweden. Many people are low-income people who cannot afford to buy their accommodation. Then it is important that we create housing forms for many people who cannot afford to buy their home, so that they can easily have a place to live. Just as I started my speech, this is a right. It is not a right to own one's dwelling, but it is a right to have a place to live. The form of housing we in the Left Party think should be normative are rentals with reasonable rents. That is why we want 50% to be rentals, and that is an important part of our policy. The common good should not consist of venture capitalists who in any way want to finance and earn money from it, but ordinary people should have a place to live. That's why we think it's the best form of living.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1079	Madam President, I would like But if ordinary people themselves state that they prefer to live in a house or a townhouse, is it the task of the Left Party to tell them that they should not be allowed to live in that form of housing because it does not correspond with the Left Party ideology?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1080	Madam President, I would like We don't tell people where to live. What we are saying is that we, as politicians, have a responsibility to create conditions that make people have a place to live. In the situation where we are today – where poverty is increasing, the gaps are increasing and people cannot afford – it is important that we just create forms of housing in which we know people will be able to afford to live. The rental right is precisely a form of housing that we know people will be able to afford, and that is why we say that the state must take a much greater role in ensuring that rental rights are built with reasonable rents that ordinary people can afford.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1081	Madam President, I would like Well, it was a benevolent change of line we just had to listen to. It is one thing to ask people what they want and another thing quite another to force people, as the Left Party, to do something they obviously do not want to do. We were told here, Madam President, that the Left Party has decided that 50% of all Swedes will live in a tenancy – no matter what they happen to want – and in some way want to force people to do so. Madam President, I would like When you listen to this debate or to the political debate in general, you wonder what is most painful for the Social Democrats: to have to implement the defence tax of the Centre Party and Liberals a reduction or to have to include the Left Party's subsidy for energy efficiency and renovation of multi-residential buildings. It is certainly about less money, but there are few things that have received such harsh criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office as the design of this support. This, Madam President, prompts my question: did Momodou Malcolm Jallow sleep at the committee meeting where we received this stinging appeal from the National Audit Office? When I read the Left Party's proposal for a spending framework, I see that the party wants to spend not 165 million wrongly using tax crowns on this aid, but 1 billion. My question is therefore: what conclusions does Momodou Malcolm Jallow draw from the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office has made about the design of this support?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1084	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important that we have an honest debate, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. First of all, the Left Party should not force anyone. It is not in the nature of the Left Party. We work for the people and are elected by the people. We have the task of pursuing a policy that creates better conditions and living conditions for ordinary people – unlike, perhaps, from Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, as in the case of the venture capitalists. I'm a left-winger for the voice of ordinary people. It's about ordinary people who work every day but can't afford to live on luxury floors in the middle of town. It's ordinary people who can't afford to take out a loan and buy a luxurious home. It is ordinary people who after they have paid all the bills may have a few hundred left to have a coffee. It is important that we build housing that those people can afford, and these are rental apartments. It is very important that that is what is normative. As regards the question of the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism, it is one thing to criticise this initiative. If you invest in reform, it is good that you evaluate the reform, and that is exactly what has been done. Then it was concluded that the design doesn't work very well, and you identified everything that didn't work well. I think that we as politicians then have a responsibility to look at what has gone wrong. Now we know, and then the question is what we can do to improve this. The difference between me and the Moderates is that the Moderates want to abolish everything that helps poor and vulnerable people. The Moderates would rather subsidise the lives of rich people. We think we should look at the design and change it.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1089	Madam President, I would like One can of course have a different view of the Left's attitude to coercion; in my world there has been a little bit of a red thread in the supporting parts of Left Party policy that it is just based on a fairly large amount of coercion. The outstanding question, of course, is: How does the Left Party intend to bridge the gap between the proportion that claims to want to live in a tenancy and the left-wing party's goal of 50 percent living in a tenancy? That is a question to which we have not yet been given an answer. Then there's question number two. The Swedish National Audit Office criticises an aid, which has so far amounted to 165 million, as totally non-functioning. The conclusion of the Left Party is that it should instead amount to 1 billion. That is astounding, Madam President.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1092	Madam President, I would like It is good that we belong to two completely different parties, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for once again: Our housing policy is based on needs. If you look at the need in Sweden's municipalities and see that what is actually needed are rental apartments, that is precisely what you should invest in. These are needs-driven policies. That is what we are doing, and it is very important to understand it. As a moderate, you may not have that understanding, and I have respect for that. But what is needed are rental apartments with reasonable rents, and that's what we're going to build. With regard to this criticism, I would like to make it clear once again that I agree that the criticism was terrible and that I am buying it. But I appreciate the criticism, because now we can sit down and look at how to design this support in a good and effective way.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1094	Madam President, I would like I would first like to draw the House's attention to our specific opinion in this section. I usually start by saying that we have a housing crisis in Sweden. The answer from the government is usually evasive and is that I am making the problem bigger to be dramatic. That's why I'm going to use the facts this time, to see where we land – and to see if I'm wrong. Housing construction in the country continues to decline both this year and next year. This is shown by Boverket's forecast from June 2019. The number of dwellings started will decrease by 11 per cent this year, when 49 000 dwellings are started. In 2020, construction will decrease by a further 5 per cent, with 46,500 homes expected to begin. What do SCB's statistics look like for newly built residential apartments back in time? In 2017, 63,700 apartments were started, and in 2018 52,900 – i.e. a decrease – began. According to SCB, 35,100 residential apartments have been started in three quarters in 2019. In my county of Halland, the forecast for 2019 is about 2,700 dwellings started. The figure for 2020 is disappointing: It is about 2,000 homes to start, and this in a county that has high pressure on housing and a strong migration. With these figures, we can see that the number of buildings built in Sweden has decreased in recent years. We know that we are now entering a time when the economy is falling behind, so it is not a difficult forecast to make it look much the same even in 2021. So we can expect a reduction. A total of 240 out of 290 municipalities indicate a housing deficit, while a total of 46 municipalities indicate that the housing market is in balance. The deficit can of course be both larger and smaller in such a municipality, but this is an indicator that we need to increase the rate of housing and not reduce it. The number of municipalities where people find it difficult to find housing is 240. It is too high a figure, and it shows that this is not only a big city problem but also a national problem. What about youths? Recently, a report from the Tenant Association showed that many youths involuntarily remain at home. The figure reported was that about 238 000 people aged 20 to 27 involuntarily live at home. These are youths who cannot leave home, move closer to their new job, or move closer to their place of study. We also have a shared responsibility that all people have a roof over their heads and a home that they call their own, both for security and for having a solid place in life. It is a prerequisite for solving other problems in your life. The latest report has shown that the number of homeless people in Sweden is somewhere around 33 000. These are 33 000 people to whom we have not fulfilled our mission in various ways. In my home county, it is one of the larger municipalities – Varberg Municipality – that makes a homelessness report. It is exemplary to do such a thing. The report shows that there are 152 people under the concept of homeless people. Making a report is the first step in solving the problem. This should be reasonable to demand from most major municipalities.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1108	In summary, efforts to create housing for economically vulnerable households have failed in many Swedish municipalities. The solution in neighbouring countries such as Denmark and Finland shows that this problem is not addressed with less than the release of more rental rights for social purposes. This must be emphasised from the national level to the municipalities. Madam President, I would like Now I have presented in various ways that we have a housing crisis in Sweden and that we can now note this and look at what solutions we have to this crisis. This concludes the discussion about whether we have a housing crisis in Sweden – it is black and white that this is the case. Of course, I am full of curiosity about this government, which is about to be in its sixth year of government and which has been strengthened by the Liberals and the Center Party in order to find the answers to the real problems we have in our society, such as the housing crisis. I must say that the result is extremely meagre. An old method that has not worked in the past is being tried again in the form of investment aid. This is really what we have seen from reforms; everything else we and those in the housing queue are hoping for in the future. As far as investment aid is concerned, I have to say that the government itself does not believe in its policy. If one believed that investment support was an effective and good way to solve the housing crisis, investment support would not have been cut. The fact is that the 2019 budget provides EUR 2.8 billion for investment aid, but in the government budget for 2020 it is EUR 2.1 billion. Would it not be better to find other ways of solving the crisis if one does not believe in the aid itself? I can give the four January parties full access rights to our proposals – we will not take any royalty! Bospar is a concept that increases awareness of savings, while we know that seven out of ten citizens want to own their home. With bospar we try to find a small part of a solution to the citizen's problems of owning their home. You can connect a starting loan for first-time buyers that makes it easier for younger people to enter the property market. These two reforms, together with the review of credit restrictions, should be a kick-start that we can do directly, and together, and then build on with more solutions. Statistics clearly show that our goal as a nation should be that even those with less money in their wallets should have the opportunity to own their housing. The property is a long-term saving for the citizen, while all the statistics show that it is actually cheaper to live in a owned dwelling. We can also imagine the Minister for Finance taking that hat off and putting on the Minister for Housing's hat and realizing that credit restrictions are a huge obstacle for people to enter the property market. I have not even considered that with facts I need to prove that credit restrictions are hampering the housing market. It is always – every week – in the newspapers. As a minister, you can take note of this if you wish. Requiring double amortisation while asking people to meet an interest rate of 7-8 percent is the same as saying that you do not want people to own their own home. In the short term, we cannot eliminate the housing crisis; we can only facilitate its management by increasing mobility so that we use the square metres more efficiently. Every person or family should be able to have the right type of accommodation based on their needs. It is necessary to review the credit restrictions, to introduce housing couples, to introduce start-up loans, to review the leaseholds and to review new forms of housing such as ownership apartments and units of flats, not only from a housing perspective but also for social and integration reasons. You have to have the courage to see outside the box. You have to dare try new things and new types of housing that increase commitment and security. I believe that ownership and partnership can do so. To think outside the box we can all do together, and we need broad anchoring – not just the January parties. With this budget, we can see that the government's new cooperation with the Centre Party and the Liberals has given nothing at all so far in terms of housing policy. I think it's all about creating the right picture of problems and finding solutions based on the problem picture that address the problems that have been analysed. As I see it, the government and its partners do not have the right picture of problems. I just have one question that might clarify the problem: Where is everyone going to live?
i-6xGyqPqdnFj3fkdmb3mdm8	Madam President, I would like The Civil Committee is now debating CU1 policy area 18 Community planning, housing and construction, and consumer policy. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report as a whole to be approved. Today's debate is the first major housing policy debate we have had in this House since the January agreement was concluded, so I understand that there are many who are eager for debate. I also believe that there are many issues that need to be addressed. The housing issue has been quite heated for a number of years. Housing shortages, social vulnerability and young people's opportunities to enter the housing market are some of the issues that are constantly in focus, and I think it is important that we continue to discuss and discuss them in the future. Today, society faces major challenges. Eight years of moderate and bourgeois tax cuts until almost six years ago have left their mark. Today's exclusion depends to a large extent on the gaps that we have seen develop over several years. With increased injustice, segregation and exclusion, there is concern, and society is torn apart. Much of the tendencies and phenomena we see in society today are due to the fact that we live in an unfair and segregated society. These are sins that have not happened here and now, and not one, two or three years ago, but a number of years ago. We must now correct these sins. For us Social Democrats, the social development that is taking place now is not acceptable. For us, it is important to build a strong society – a society where every person contributes according to ability and where everyone gets help according to the needs they have at different times in life. It is safe people with faith in the future and employment that create prosperity, and that is the prerequisite for a functioning welfare state. And if there are many of us who contribute, there are also many who can share in the welfare. That is why we Social Democrats will always fight stubbornly to maintain the general welfare society. Madam President, I would like Housing construction is part of the welfare building, and high housing construction is a prerequisite for us to meet the challenges we have in the housing market right now. During the last parliamentary term, the government made a historic effort in the area of housing policy. This effort, along with a number of other reforms and a good economic cycle, led to a high level of housing construction. We had a historically high level of housing construction for a number of years during the last parliamentary term. In 2018, the construction of 52,000 dwellings was started. The forecast for 2019 is that it will begin construction of approximately 49,000 dwellings. These figures are to be compared to the fact that, on average, some 30 000 homes have been built over the last 20 years, usually well fewer than that. In fact, during the period 2014 – 2018, i.e. the last term of office, the construction of over 230,000 homes began. There is more housing than what was started in the period 2006– 2014, when we had bourgeois rule. Only 220 000 homes were started. Of course, one can reason that we are now in a situation where housing construction is going down. It is worrying and something the government is working on. But during the last term of office there was much more housing built than for a very, very long time. You have to be aware of that. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, when we discuss figures and the declines that we see in society today, we think it is important to discuss and analyse why housing construction is falling. It is not easy to say that it sinks for one reason or another. If we compare tenancy forms, the construction of residential buildings is going down quite sharply in some regions, while the construction of rental apartments is largely stagnating. Geographically, we see that some cities continue to have a high level of housing, while other cities build very little. One example where the reduction is very large is today Stockholm. In the municipality of Stockholm, housing construction is declining very much. It is an enormous challenge that the government and we government representatives must take into account, but which above all Stockholm municipality must take responsibility for, because basically the housing issue is a municipal matter. Unfortunately, in Stockholm, the ruling majority are engaged in selling out the cheap housing that exists instead of planning for new cheap housing. It is an enormous challenge and a problem. Around the country there are other municipalities that also build smaller ones. I think that municipal representatives must also take responsibility for maintaining housing and ensuring that housing is built in which people can afford to live. On the part of the government parties, it is important that we contribute in various ways to maintaining housing. That is why, with the January agreement, we are now reintroducing the investment aid that existed earlier. As of 1 January, it will again be possible to apply for investment aid, and investment aid will generate new housing. Some of them might have been able to be built anyway, but then to significantly higher rental levels. Some 10 000 homes will be built with investment aid per year. It is a little less than half of the rental dwellings built in the country. I regard this as extremely positive. And above all, housing will be built in municipalities where housing has not been built in perhaps 10, 15 years. There has been a great need for investment aid. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is important to recognise that we are facing major challenges today. We have major challenges in terms of housing shortages, social vulnerability and poor mobility in the existing housing market. That is something the government will take on. When it comes to the construction of more housing, it is in many ways a matter of municipalities and companies working together. Today, many municipalities work very closely with developers to create both cheaper products and design and build quickly. In many of the municipalities that work in this way – Örebro, Uppsala, Linköping and others – we see very good results. The government is actively working to develop a system around serially manufactured houses in order to be able to work with prefab and build faster, cheaper and better. The government has given the mission to look at competition in the construction sector. There are challenges in the construction sector, and the government is therefore taking new steps to try to improve competition in all sectors of the construction sector. The situation of young adults and older people in the housing market is currently problematic. Young adults find it difficult to enter the housing market. Older people find it difficult to find adequate accommodation. Therefore, the Government has given a mandate to the county administrative boards to find out what housing needs there are. At the end of the day, this is a municipal matter. The municipalities are now given tools to clearly see what needs there are in the municipalities and then be able to plan land and work strategically. I also believe that the municipalities, having updated housing supply plans in many cases, will see for themselves where housing needs to be built. Madam President, I would like The socially vulnerable are a group that we talk about far too little. Today we see large groups who find it difficult to find a place to live. It is an issue that must not be ignored; it is an issue that we must address. This means that municipalities must take a much greater responsibility than they do, and all municipalities must take responsibility. Today, we see municipalities clearly escaping their responsibilities. They have a housing responsibility, and they will take it. I believe that, by extension, the state must also assume a responsibility for us to cope with the most vulnerable groups in society. It is therefore important that we look further at these issues. Finally, it is a question of having a homelessness strategy. I agree with Larry Söder that a welfare society like Sweden cannot accept having tens of thousands of homeless people. This is something that the government has to deal with in the coming years.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1149	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting speech by Johan Löfstrand after he had finished the introduction, where he barked at the previous actions of the alliance government. I'd like to ask you some questions about ownership and housing. Johan Löfstrand and I are fully aware that seven out of ten people want to own their accommodation. We must somehow ensure that there is an opportunity for ordinary people to own their homes. I also believe that Johan Löfstrand and I agree that mobility in the housing market is what can make us better use of the square metres and that the housing shortage is reduced. I would like to ask Johan Löfstrand whether he thinks that the downward trend that is now, as I noted, and also Johan Löfstrand stated in his speech, in the number of homes started, is all right. If it's not okay, I'd like to know how Johan Löfstrand thinks we should solve it, because it's urgent. People don't have a place to live. My specific question is: why can't we take a hand and review the credit restrictions and start with housing couples and start-up loans directly? I believe that there is a majority in Parliament to take such a decision that increases mobility and allows young people to live in property. We know, according to statistics, that owned housing is what costs the least to people. If you own your home, you pay to yourself. If you live in a rental apartment, you pay someone else. I think Johan Löfstrand and I agree on that. Why not start with the credit restrictions, housing and start-up loans directly? We can do that during the year, or next year, more accurately.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1154	Madam President, I would like There was a lot in Larry Söder's main speech that you can take on. It is clear that the Christian Democrats previously held the housing portfolio, because there is still a fairly clear link to what citizens are actually asking for. Much of what Larry Söder brings up, I sympathize with. Of course, we cannot accept today's declining trend in housing construction. But it is important to analyse the figures instead of saying that there is disaster everywhere, because that is not the case. The construction of rental apartments has not decreased very much. Instead, it is primarily the construction of residential buildings in Stockholm and some major cities that have been reduced. In many of the medium-sized cities, the construction of residential apartments is largely reduced because a certain segment is saturated. Here I hope that the industry can create more rentals and other right-of-occupancy concepts, such as rent purchases, in order to attract a new group of buyers. In Stockholm, where the right-of-occupancy building is also decreasing, the builders who build reasonably cheaply continue to sell quite a lot of residential apartments. But it is not possible to sell expensive apartments in A mode. Then maybe the market should reconsider.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1158	Madam President, I would like I didn't get a clear signal from Johan Löfstrand whether he agreed to review the credit restrictions and introduce housing and starting loans during next year or not. I do not agree that the housing shortage is a major phenomenon. 240 municipalities in Sweden have a housing shortage, but of course there are different types of problems in these municipalities. In fact, the market economy works like that in terms of housing. There are simply no buyers who can pay what it costs to build housing. That is where the problem of credit restrictions comes in. People are not allowed to borrow enough to buy the homes that can be built. As far as the homeless are concerned, I should like to ask a specific question: can the Social Democrats consider making demands for homelessness reports in the 20 largest municipalities?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1162	Madam President, I would like I agree with Larry Söder. Although the housing shortage is greatest in large municipalities, many other municipalities also have a housing shortage. Therefore, investment support is a reform that works well to deal with housing shortages in smaller municipalities. In many smaller municipalities rental housing has not been built for 10 to 15 years, and this is because they have not got the calculation together. With the investment support, they now get the calculation together for the first time. The solution to the housing shortage in many small and medium-sized municipalities that are reasonably attractive can thus be investment support. As far as the credit restrictions are concerned, we all know that it is the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority that has the task to deal with them.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1164	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of your criticism of the Alliance and the bourgeoisie, Johan. The policy of the bourgeoisie and the Alliance of tax cuts has created major gaps and had terrible consequences. But the Social Democrats have ruled the country in recent years. What is it that makes the Social Democrats unable to restore the state a position in which the state plays a greater role? Stop referring to previous governments. Now it is you who govern and have the opportunity to invest and give the state a greater role. Why don't you?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1166	Madam President, I would like It is a legitimate question, and it must be answered from the perspective that we have a rather difficult parliamentary situation. During the eight years of bourgeois rule, the Alliance had its own majority for a large part of the time, which meant that you could do anything. In recent years, we social democrats have been in the government and have negotiated the budget with the Left Party, but every time the government has made proposals to increase the tax on large income groups, a number of bourgeois representatives have said that they should convict the government. This has meant that the budgets submitted have not contained sufficient contributions to welfare, and that is why the major welfare challenges have not been met, which is problematic. And the parliamentary situation we now have makes the situation even more difficult. As a social democrat, I believe that welfare building is one of the most important things for us to have a society that is safe for our children and grandchildren.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1171	Madam President, I would like I agree with a lot of what you say, Johan. But rhetoric is one thing and to act another. A few weeks ago I visited Husby with Ola Johansson, and then we met a social democrat who said he was devastated. He has lived in his rental apartment for forty years and does not want to move, but the renov bills come closer and closer. We see it happening, there are facts and it is a global phenomenon. Even though people are suffering, nothing is being done to stop this. There are, of course, studies and proposals on how to strengthen the position of tenants, but the Social Democrats choose not to present them. Why?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1174	Let me remind you that we are speaking through the President. We are not saying you, but we are saying Madam President, Johan Löfstrand and the Social Democrats.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1175	Madam President, I would like Well, Malcolm, you're raising some big challenges. There's no talking about it. I have seen the film Push myself and can say that today's global financial market is creating huge challenges when building a strong welfare society. As you know, there is an investigation that looks at how to deal with renovation issues, and it is now being prepared within the Government Office. We have not found a good wording at the moment, because it is terribly difficult. If we are to overcome this, we must probably create different types of market mechanisms that make the operators who will own properties in Sweden also think it is profitable to renovate these properties in a responsible way.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1178	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of his speech, Johan Löfstrand blamed many of the shortcomings of society on tax cuts up to eight years ago, which resulted in a total increase in state revenue to the Treasury. It is an explanatory model that bears the character of the one that Stefan Löfven himself used in his not so successful interview in Agenda, let's sum it up as. I'm not going to bore Johan with going through that. I'm not going to go through much of the housing subsidies either, because I don't think Johan Löfstrand really believes in them. He knows, as the right-wing sossian, that this type of subsidy is essentially ineffective, since it is mainly used to subsidise the constructions that had been done anyway. As a result, they end up in the last row with a number of developers. Of course, it can be fun for them, but on the whole it may not be what makes them build a strong and robust society. It is also a little remarkable when Löfstrand says that it is in principle the Social Democrats' merit that it was built much during a boom, but the fault of municipalities and economic cycles that the construction now turns down. There must be some kind of communication vessel in how one chooses to take responsibility for things, I think. I would like to conclude by putting a specific question to Mr Johan. Could it not be that the time has come for us to agree to raise the mortgage ceiling to address a dysfunctional housing market in Stockholm, for example?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1182	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin highlights the eight years of bourgeois rule. Of course, the Moderates cannot be burdened with all the challenges we face in society today. But it can also be said that the challenges we see in Malmö today are not due to the migration crisis in 2015. Those scapegoats are a couple of years back. Over a period of time, the tax burden on an established group of people in society was reduced by about 100 billion, while at the same time it was cut for the absolutely poorest in different types of insurance schemes. This has segregated and pulled our society out. I believe, in the long run, that this may have some significance for the challenges we face in society and the vulnerability that some individuals feel in our society today. I will go on to raise the question that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin highlights about economic prosperity and my way of arguing. I said in my speech that the boom has obviously contributed to housing construction. But what has contributed most is that several Social Democratic municipalities – Linköping, Örebro, Uppsala and a number of others – built an enormous amount during the last parliamentary term because they wanted to build. There are very many moderate-led municipalities, especially around Stockholm, that do not want to build, because they do not want certain types of citizens in their municipalities. We must ensure that all municipalities assume their responsibilities and build.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1185	Madam President, I would like Johan Löfstrand is quite right, of course, that the problems in Malmö do not arise solely from 2015. The Social Democrats have, as you know, ruled that municipality considerably longer than that. It is a problem picture that has been around for a long time and which has also led to a very large part of the municipal levelling aid that is supposed to go to municipalities in the countryside being shipped down to the black hole Malmö. But to return to my original question, which Johan might not have understood because he did not answer it: Can this not be a time when we can agree to raise the mortgage ceiling in order to address the problematic situation that exists in the housing market, especially here in Stockholm but also in other parts of the country?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1187	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar asked me a question about the mortgage ceiling. In the January agreement, paragraph 4 deals with a major tax review. The tax review must also deal with the taxes relating to housing policy. When we deal with housing taxes, I think that we also need to look at the credit restrictions that exist. I think we need a whole. When such a tax review is carried out, I also believe that some of the possible revenue received by the state must be moved in order for us to meet the social challenges that we have in the area of housing policy. I can well imagine discussing credit restrictions later on, but if the Moderates' solution to the financing problem for our young people is to change the mortgage ceiling from 85% to 90%, I think they have thought completely wrong.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1189	Madam President, I would like We have to deal with a budget debate in which the Center Party is behind the government's budget and therefore does not have its own budget motion to put forward and argue for. This does not exclude the fact that we have issues we want to highlight or criticism to address the policy pursued and pursued. More housing needs to be built. Mobility needs to be increased, so that you can move to where the jobs are and so that companies can recruit the skills needed to build Sweden strongly in competition with other countries. When it comes to the housing market and its functioning, I would say that Sweden – despite building subsidies, municipal planning monopolies and a strong public interest – is the worst in the class. Most countries in our neighbourhood are able to provide a home for everyone who needs it – perhaps not of the highest standard and in the central locations, but always a home. We have a building that is far from enough. The reasons for that are many. High costs indicate that there is a potential for the industry to become more efficient. But why should you be, when you can still get paid? There's a shortage of housing. High prices in new production and different circumstances that make it difficult for newcomers to enter the housing market. And in addition to the small size of the supply of cheap older homes for the small family, it is often difficult, as some previous speakers have mentioned, to obtain loans in a bank. Reference is made to a rental market where there are 20 years of waiting time in some places. In addition, social contracts often have to take precedence. Of course, this creates tensions in society, but it is essential that someone who has been abused and has children can get an apartment quickly. We don't want people living on the street. The road to integration, the way out of addiction, crime, mental illness or unemployment and the road to social inclusion is via a home. A few weeks ago, Stockholm Stadsmission presented its homeless report here in the Riksdag. Sadly, but also gratifyingly, they highlighted European models of social housing. They asked whether it is not now time to draw up a Swedish model by taking impressions from good examples. They also proposed a homelessness strategy. The Center Party is fully behind a responsible and inclusive social housing policy that targets those most in need, counteracts exclusion and provides the conditions for homeless people to gradually establish themselves in the housing market. It is, Madam President, 25 000 rental contracts that are provided by municipal social services. They have nowhere else to refer to these than newly produced, expensive and already sought after rental apartments. It is good and necessary for us in Sweden to have a debate on social housing for certain groups. When we persist in saying that we should have a general housing policy that applies to everyone and where everyone's apartments should be negotiated in the same system and have a similar standard, unfortunately, the housing shortage will continue. Madam President, I would like During Question Time two weeks ago, I asked Mr Per Bolund a question. I said, "Let's assume that Per Bolund is meeting a young couple who are asking for advice." I suppose that happens in real life, too. They want to get married, but this is the 21st century, so maybe it's moving in together they're going to do. They're not rich. What advice does the Minister of Housing give them? ..................................................... Per Bolund was wise enough not to fall into the trap of Prime Minister Tage Erlander in 1966 in a televised hearing. He didn't say, "Well, I guess they're gonna have to get in the housing line. But that answer would not have been wrong today either. The lack of access to the owned market, the poor mobility of the existing tenancy stock and the insufficient construction for many years mean that getting into a housing queue is their only remaining option. This applies if they cannot imagine moving to places where house prices are low and there are vacancies among rentals. After all, there are such places in the country. When, a week later, I tried to get Per Bolund to answer whether it is not time to re-evaluate the amortisation requirement on the basis of the criticism directed against it by leading economists, several parties in this House and a united construction industry, his response was negative. He believes that household indebtedness is still such a risk to the country's financial stability that he can allow house factories for serial wooden houses to run at half speed, while seven out of ten people would prefer to own their home. I would like to rephrase the question and instead say this: what would cause the Minister to get the Financial Supervisory Authority to ease credit restrictions and allow young people to borrow more? What would be the reason to ease credit restrictions? Madam President, I would like The January Agreement contains some reforms that will improve mobility in the long term. This concerns the development of a model of free leasing in new production, the increased impact of the situation on the use-value rents and the introduction of an independent dispute resolution when negotiations fail and one of the parties leaves the negotiating table. These are important changes, provided that they do not become half-measures affected by the compact resistance of some of the parties. I note that there are no proposals in this budget to remove the interest on the amount of the deferral, the removal tax, and thus reduce the cost for those who wish to postpone their capital gains tax on the change of residence. Nor has it yet, as far as I am aware, been invited to some talks on tax policy, which specifically identifies the housing market as an area where reform is needed. On the other hand, work will continue to simplify and shorten planning processes. It will be possible for a developer, with a private right of initiative, to initiate and implement a plan process for adoption. It will be perfectly in line with what the Center Party has long wanted to be able to carry out a larger settlement without requiring a detailed plan outside urban areas. Beach protection is being reformed to finally put an end to the ban on building near-shore in low-exploited areas. National interests are becoming less and better defined to their extent, and above all, the authorities must regularly justify why and in what way national interests prevent housing. If you want to start a business with horses, horse riding or a café, you should be allowed to build a building without a building permit. New and more generous rules are now being introduced. It has been allowed to build larger terraces without permission. In more cases than today, notification will be sufficient for smaller extensions. Building on weak housing markets and for weak households is underdeveloped. It is not a priority for the major construction players when there are alternatives. The public interest also declines, as auditors require direct depreciation if the property values are low. We want to develop new recommendations that provide the company's auditors with support to write off housing for a longer period of time. In this way, municipalities can build even though there is no population growth but a need to build. The Center Party is not entirely enthusiastic about the fact that there are still 3 billion allocated in the 2020 budget for investment aid for housing. We want it to be more efficient, concentrated and aimed at housing throughout the country, instead of being, as today and in the past, general and paid out to developers who would have built anyway. But when a year ago, due to the change of foot between the Swedish Democrats in a budget vote, a decision was made that the construction subsidies would be abolished with immediate effect, it made the telephone go hot when many members of the party in the commons called and wondered when the construction subsidies would be introduced again. It was no longer possible to get the calculations together, and construction plans had to be put on ice. The aid was reintroduced as soon as possible, and quite soon the criteria will be changed so that the aid is sharpened and the housing markets will benefit where it is really needed, and not only in municipalities with population growth. Madam President, I would like Finally, the report contains centre movements on strengthening credit guarantees. The fact that we are now in favour of rejecting them does not mean that the guarantees are not important. However, we want to see how the reforms that I have outlined before are beating and, as we stand behind the budget as a whole, we ask to be able to come back again.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1211	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson points out that the Center Party has no budget of its own. I would like to point out to Ola Johansson that you have your own budget. It's the government's budget. You are behind it, and you will have to take responsibility for it, just like the others who have been involved in negotiating it. I know Ola Johansson as an obstinate person who has a strong commitment to housing issues and does not give up easily. When we decided on the 2019 budget in this House, the Center Party was strongly critical of investment support. At best, you have not won the negotiations with the government parties. Investment aid remains in this budget. At worst, one can say that the Centre Party has changed its feet all of a sudden and has a different view of investment aid. It would be interesting to find out which one applies. In the election movement, the Center Party was also critical of the credit restrictions. There is not a word on this in the budget that has been presented. My question actually concerns what the Center Party has got through in this budget in terms of housing policy. Since I know that Ola Johansson is stubborn, I assume that one has tried the longest but not succeeded. Since we are also in charge, I would like to ask the same question that Ola Johansson put to the Minister for Housing. What do you say to the young couple who don't have a place to live? Where are they going to live?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1215	Madam President, I would like There were many questions in one speech. Larry Söder points out that the Center Party was critical of investment support, and we still are. The investment support remains, but the construction bonus is abolished. Larry Söder himself addressed the issue in a previous speech when he asked Johan Löfstrand if the construction subsidies should not be greater. If so, the answer is that the Center Party did not allow the construction subsidies to be increased, but we limited them to the amount that had previously been in force. We have endeavoured to ensure that they become concentrated and more effective and that they are directed towards housing throughout the country. You can think of it as a win. It is one way of improving subsidies that makes them really go to housing that would otherwise not have been built. Our important criticism of investment aid is that it has not been right. It has not met the areas where the real needs are. The benefits of the Center Party in the negotiations on housing policy are tangible. We had not seen reforms on the part of the leasing sector in the way we can see in the January agreement with no less than three separate points pointing to a reform of the rental arrangements model. I assume that it will be a welcome proposal to the Christian Democrats and the Moderates when such a policy is presented in this House at the end of the term of office. I realise, after listening to Roger Hedlund, that we will not receive support from the Swedish Democrats in terms of creating mobility in the housing market by reforming the renting model. As far as credit restrictions are concerned, I agree with Larry Söder. I think we are asking the Minister for Housing similar questions. Credit restrictions are a problem. But it does not belong to the budget to decide on them. In that part, I have no comments to make.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1220	Madam President, I would like As far as credit restrictions, housing savings and starting loans are concerned, I believe that the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have a similar view. This is necessary in order to increase mobility in the housing market. We as a party are in opposition. But the Center Party is negotiating with the government parties and is therefore co-responsible for the policy we now have in 2019 and 2020. I wonder what the Center Party has done to change these rules. It is about increasing mobility in the housing market by lowering credit restrictions, ensuring that housing savings are available and starting loans are launched. I still haven't received an answer from Ola Johansson. Where are the people going to live? You are co-responsible for the policy that is now being pursued. People do not have enough housing in Sweden. Where are those people going to live? Where will the young couple stay that you talked to the housing minister about? What is your answer to these people?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1223	Madam President, I would like It's wonderful when a rhetorical question is directed against you. My answer to Larry Söder is that Ola Johansson cannot answer. It is a long-term approach to housing policy that is needed to get these homes out, and Larry Söder is as aware as I was when I made my main speech that it is many years of failed housing policy that have led to the situation that we have today. We have a situation where people cannot live in Sweden's countryside, because there are high costs, there are no jobs and there is no investment in the necessary infrastructure that facilitates housing there. I have also pointed out that there is a need to ensure that support and create the conditions for municipal housing companies to write off housing investments more quickly so that they too, where there is a need for housing for the elderly, for young people, for job seekers, can be stimulated.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1225	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson got many and legitimate questions just now, so I wasn't going to weary him with many questions but just ask one question. If I count correctly, I get it to about 14 points in the January agreement that have some kind of connection with housing policy. As I mentioned in my speech, these are points for which the Center Party is happy to take credit and honour. It is equally true that all the points have been buried in fairly long-term investigations to be submitted during the term of office. There is then no follow-up promise of when they should be implemented. It is more about the report being completed in 2020, 2021 and so on. My question to Ola is therefore simply whether we could get this on paper in this House and get it said during the debate: is Ola Johansson prepared to eat her right-wing shoe if it is in the way that the promises that the Center Party is beating its chest for are not fulfilled during the current term of office? Then we have something to come back to.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1228	Madam President, I would like It is my hope that the work on these investigations and the proposals that will be put forward before the end of the parliamentary term will not be as slow as my right-wing shoe.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1229	Madam President, I would like I guess that's going to have to be recorded in the political response category. Nevertheless, I would like clarification on this matter. Is Ola Johansson prepared to stand by the promise? Will these 14 paragraphs be fulfilled? Or is there reason for the concern that I and many people have with me, namely that this is just a way of burying politically controversial issues for the Social Democrats, which will then be done nothing?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1231	Madam President, I would like This is a question that may require both a long and a short answer. Let's try to find a middle ground. Government formation was a complex history. It took a number of Prime Minister votes, and it took a number of different treaty texts before we arrived at a position where we could form a government that did not have a direct influence on Roger Hedlund and his party. This means that it was important for the Center Party to ensure that the investigations, the proposals and the 14 points that exist are mainly timed. That is our hope, and that is our faith. If we fail to do so, then government cooperation has also failed. This will be the case if we do not succeed in producing committee directives on these points, can set up an investigation and can get proposals in place at the time set out in the January agreement, which I believe Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has read. He can also see that in the areas of renting, in particular, there are time limits for the completion of the work and the result of legislative proposals.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1234	Madam President, I would like Integration is the single most important political issue of our time and also a key to solving problems in other policy areas such as education, law enforcement and labour market issues. But what many have missed for many years is that integration and housing policy belong together. Decades of social democratic housing policy have created a strong segregation in the housing market where the key to own housing lies in time, contacts and money. For those who lack a year's salary at the bank to buy a home or who have not stood in the housing queue many years ago, the gate is closed. It affects young people and new arrivals in particular, but also people who need a new chance in the middle of their lives. All of this deepens the social divide between people who have many opportunities and those who lack the opportunities. A direct consequence of the historical policy in the residential area is that Sweden currently has 60 vulnerable areas where the social contract no longer works. Over half a million Swedes – most first or second generation Swedes – live in a daily life characterised by gang crime and parallel social structures. These are areas with low educational outcomes and poor conditions for those who want to move from dependency to self-sufficiency. Madam President, I would like Concrete action is needed to break these negative circles. The liberals have therefore formulated an action programme in the form of the suburban lift, with the stated goal that Sweden should not have any vulnerable areas by 2030. It is an ambitious objective, but reality today requires nothing less than that. To succeed, we need to free up and encourage the positive power of those living and working in vulnerable areas. The short-term grant and project culture from the state and municipality has reached the end of the road. A long-term programme is now required for collaboration between municipalities and the state, local entrepreneurs and property owners. I want to make it clear that the state and property owners must take greater responsibility. There should be partnerships that support, but also require, increased investment in socially vulnerable areas. They may be similar to the BID measures that have been successfully implemented on a broad front in, for example, the United States, Canada and Denmark. Also at home there is a good role model in Malmös Sofielund. This needs to be scaled up to the whole country. All Swedes – including those living in suburban areas – deserve security and freedom for their own development. We therefore want to see more stringent legislation to curb overcrowding and stricter application of existing laws to stop illegal rental activities. We must also strengthen the individual's power over his or her own housing and environment through solutions that enable, for example, own ownership. This can be done through a wider roll-out of the model for shareholders' apartments that has been successfully introduced in, for example, Botkyrka. We also want to introduce a tax-beneficiary housing saving for anyone who wants to save for their first owned dwelling. This will significantly reduce the time for a young person or a newly arrived person to enter their first home. Madam President, I would like A more dynamic housing market, together with additional resources for law enforcement and measures to break the increased school segregation, is crucial for effective integration and to keep Sweden together. The January agreement contains many important liberal victories and better integration. The law on asylum seekers' right to find their own home, EBO, was adopted with good intentions in the 1990s but unfortunately has not worked as intended. On the contrary, in practice, the system increased segregation, as many newcomers chose to settle in already immigrant areas. We Liberals are therefore very pleased that, as of 1 January, municipalities will be able to introduce derogations from EBO in vulnerable areas. It will be introduced now, so the Member of Parliament, Mr Bohlin, is wrong to say that none of this has happened in practice. That has already happened, last week, and the Moderates were in favour of it. Other liberal successes are free leasing in new production, a large number of regulatory simplifications and a review of whether a real estate situation today is given sufficient importance in calculating the rent level and that proposals should be made if that is not the case. Another success is the removal of removal tax. Major steps are now being taken towards a more liberal housing market in Sweden. The January agreement means a more liberal housing market and nothing else. The budget for Category 18 contains a very significant allocation for investment aid for rental and student housing. Liberals do not think that it is a priority measure and issue to provide state aid for housing which, in all likelihood, had yet been built. But that is part of the January agreement where we have compromised. In the January agreement, therefore, the Liberals called for the new investment aid to be more effective. The previous S-MP support did not go to vulnerable groups but only to those who were first in line. The Liberals therefore want the investment aid to be redeployed and linked to a remuneration of the landlords. We believe that in order to be able to receive this support, landlords should allocate 15% of the housing to socially vulnerable groups such as homeless, single parents, disabled people and new arrivals. This is the only way we can get housing for these people. Mrs. Old President! When I grew up in Tynnered in Gothenburg around the turn of the millennium, it was not a vulnerable area. My then neighbours and current friends are strong and capable individuals with a great desire to contribute to Swedish society. They are not responsible for the fact that Tynnered and other areas are now vulnerable areas. Tynnered is vulnerable because, as politicians for decades, we collectively failed to create reasonable and fair conditions for successful social development and integration, not least in the form of housing policy. It is high time to start paying off the integration debt that Sweden has. Sweden should be a country of opportunity for everyone, no matter where and how you happen to live. On behalf of the Liberals, I am in favour of the bill as a whole.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1249	Mrs. Old President! It feels very good that we can stand here today and discuss a budget that will be a big step in moving Sweden in the right direction – unlike the budget that was voted through here in Parliament about a year ago by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats and that meant a slaughter not least on environmental policy but also on housing policy. Now we can return to an active environmental policy and also to an active housing policy. This is something that Sweden needs. The dwelling is not just four walls and a roof. It is also a place to live, a place of pride and a place of security. Therefore, housing and housing policies affect a great many people. It also places a great responsibility on us who are responsible for implementing housing policy reforms. That is why I am proud that we can now look back on a term of office with a historically very high level of construction. Between 2014 and 2018, approximately 230,000 dwellings were started. This allows us to look back on a mandate in which every year with a red-green government we have had a higher construction than in any single year with the moderate-led government in the early 2000s. Of course, we have a responsibility to ensure that more is built. A more balanced balance between supply and demand in the housing market is a very important prerequisite. We can now see that we have also managed to increase construction, and that is an important prerequisite for achieving a functioning housing market. Several of the points contained in the January agreement concern the housing market and housing construction. Among other things, it is a matter of reviewing rental regulation, introducing investment aid for rental rights again, simplifying the rules, increasing the building of wooden houses and introducing climate declarations. In the January agreement, we now have a broad political platform which also provides the opportunity for stability in housing policy. That is something that is very much needed. The twitchiness that has prevailed in Swedish housing policy for too long has been harmful. Not least, it has harmed those who want to raise a capital to build the homes needed on the market. The investment aid that we are now implementing, where we are laying down at an investment level of SEK 3 billion per year, means quite large contributions to getting out more construction of rental apartments with a reasonable rent, something that there is a huge need on the housing market. The investment aid aims to increase the construction and make it profitable to build rental housing for lower rent compared to other new productions, even in situations where building is otherwise not profitable even though there is a great need for housing. The aid has been designed to reduce construction costs and to ensure that the reduced construction costs also benefit tenants through a relatively lower rent. The investment support will increase the possibility of building where there is a housing building need but where profitability is currently considered insufficient. The fact that this is so becomes apparent when you look back at the statistics. 26 000 homes have been built with investment support so far. It is also clear that it is being built in places where there would have been no housing if this support had not been available. We also give in the budget an authorisation of SEK 7.5 billion for 2020, precisely in order to be able to approve the applications that are now coming in. There is a huge demand in the housing market for this support, precisely because there is a great demand for the apartments that come out. I also want to lift up student housing, which has not been on the wallpaper today. Even there we can look back on a unique activity in the past four years compared to what it has looked like in history. More than 10,000 new student apartments have only been on the market since 2016. That is not enough; we need to build much more. There, too, we work with several tools. The investment support is one, but also to give assignments to Akademiska Hus, which now allows us to get 11 000 new student housing only until 2026 and then another 10 000 by 2030. All in all, this means that we have a sharp increase in the number of student housing in the Swedish market, which enables students to actually get a home in the future and thus be able to apply for the education that they dream of and that can give them a future career. In the budget we also raise the ceiling for the deferral amount to SEK 3 million. There has been a great deal of discussion about mobility in the housing market, and this is a measure that could allow more people to move to a home that is better adapted to their needs. However, we also see that the number of sales is on the all-time high and that there is a very high degree of mobility in the housing market already today. I would also like to take this opportunity to raise an issue which has not been so much on the agenda today and which I miss. After all, we in our generation have a very special task, namely to become the brave generation that makes the decisions that stop the climate crisis. We know there that the housing sector has a very important role to play. About 20% of the greenhouse gases we emit from our society come from the construction and real estate sectors. Then we also have a responsibility to fill that need with politics, to come up with measures. In this respect, it is clear that there are no such proposals from the political opposition. It simply seems that this is not an interesting area to work with. On the other hand, we have put in resources. We also have policies in the January agreement to ensure that the housing sector and the construction sector also become part of the fossil-free welfare society that we have set out as a vision on the part of the government. It is about already, in this budget, allocating money to Boverket in order to build a climate database that can then be used to implement the climate declarations that we have said together in the January agreement that we are going to introduce. This means that you can see a clear footprint and compare different buildings with each other. As an environmentally conscious consumer, you can choose the building that has the least climate impact. This is a way to steer the entire construction sector towards taking climate responsibility and achieving a much more sustainable construction in the future. As Minister of Housing, I have not only brought housing issues into the Ministry of Finance, where I think they belong and where they also come closer to economic policy decisions, but also to urban and urban planning issues, which I welcome. I think it is important that we not only build new buildings and buildings but also build them in a context where the urban areas we build become environmentally friendly and sustainable and enable us to develop as people and good health, not least children. There, I am also proud that we are introducing new support in this budget for green, secure societies starting at 50 million and then stepping up over the coming years to 150 million SEK and then 200 million SEK. It provides the opportunity to build the child-friendly societies that our children deserve. In January we will make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. It requires us to take the best interests of children into account when we are affected, and this also applies, of course, to building our future homes and our future urban environments. Through this support, there is now an opportunity to support municipalities that want to build in a sustainable way and ensure that urban environments are sustainable for the future. Mrs. Old President! It poses great challenges for our society that we have had too low construction for a long time and that we also have too much climate impact. Major challenges require gathering and action. In order to have a stable housing policy over time, we will have to work together to ensure that people have a roof over their heads and a safe place to live. That is why I am proud that we – the Center Party, the Liberals, the Green Party and the Social Democrats – have now managed to meet in the middle of Swedish politics in the January agreement. This also means a more active housing policy than we have had in Sweden in decades. And it's an activity that's needed. More housing that people can afford will come onto the market. And we can finally reduce the climate impact of the construction sector. This is something that has been lacking in Swedish politics. That is why I am very concerned about the political opposition and the non-answers that are being made. We note that the Moderates and Christian Democrats are taking away from housing policy; they are removing resources, and they are removing reforms. But you don't lead to it. Investment aid was removed when the previous budget was put through. It has created enormous unrest and instability in the Swedish housing market. Many who wanted to put the shovel on the slopes have been prevented from doing so. Now we are re-establishing investment support. And now we can do it on a permanent basis. This means that many new housing projects can finally get started in Sweden. We must sincerely hope that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats do not get the chance to once again take great steps to destroy Swedish housing policy.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1269	Mrs. Old President! The Minister of Housing said that the budget is a major step in the right direction. Unfortunately, I do not see that direction. It would be interesting to find out what direction it is. I do not see any development in housing policy in this budget as a whole. There is a lack of direction in housing policy. I would like to ask the Minister for Housing about something related to my speech. Does the Minister of Housing have the right picture of problems with the housing market? And has he taken the right steps along those lines? What is the problem picture the housing minister sees in the housing market? If so, what proposals does he have for action?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1271	Mrs. Old President! On Larry Söder's direct question is the answer: Yes, I have the right problem picture. Of course, it is a problem that we have had too low a level of construction for a long time. Since the 1990s, we have had an average of 30,000 dwellings per year. When you do not build enough, as the population increases and as the needs grow in society, it is clear that you will be in trouble. That's where we are now. Larry Söder should be able to take on some of the responsibility. Eight years of that time we had a moderate-led government that included the Christian Democrats. Then it just wasn't built enough. We should both be able to say that. Now we have a significantly higher level of construction. At the same time, we cannot be satisfied until we have a better functioning housing market and a better balance between supply and demand. We're not happy. We will continue to come up with reforms to increase housing construction. There should be reason for Larry Söder to be a little self-critical. We can now see the impact of a housing policy that takes a step backwards and says: I don't want politics involved. It should only be up to buyers and sellers. This led to far too low a level of construction for far too long. We should be able to say that together. We can also note that housing has not been built that people on low incomes need, such as rental apartments that have a reasonable rent. It has been built quite a lot of very expensive residential apartments in cities such as Stockholm. Now we have a housing market where there are vacant flats that no one can afford to move into because demand has been covered, while we have a huge housing need. This calls for political reform. My question back to Larry Söder is: how can the answer to the challenges we face be to remove and to say no to housing policy but not add anything? The Christian Democrats, in their budget motion, are removing resources. There is a reduction in appropriations. You want to do less. That can't be the answer to the housing shortage.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1277	Mrs. Old President! I can make three suggestions without the Minister of Housing having to pay any money: . Review the credit restrictions immediately.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1280	A large majority of the parliament wants to introduce housing savings. In an interpellation debate between me and the Minister for Housing, he replied as an environmental party and said that housing saving was something to look at. Today we have seen in this House that almost all parties agree that housing saving is something we can look at. When is this reform coming from the Minister for Housing? Now you can't hide anymore. The problem is that a housing market has been destroyed. We need to re-establish the housing market. We do this by enabling people to ask for a home that they actually need. And you can do that in the owned housing market. If it is not done, there will be no effects. Investment aid will not give people the opportunity to buy a home. 70% of all people want a owned dwelling. It is cheaper in the long run to have a owned dwelling. Why does the Minister of Housing deny people buying a home?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1283	Mrs. Old President! Of course we don't. People are buying and selling homes in Sweden today, just as they have done before. Some myths are also spreading, especially by the opposition that we are now facing in this House, that, for example, loans cannot be obtained if you are young in Sweden today. It is sufficient to look at the mortgage surveys that are being carried out to conclude that this is not true. On the contrary, the proportion of young borrowers is much higher than during the time of the alliance government. It is making it easy for yourself as a politician to say that someone else is going to solve the problems. We should not have an active policy, but someone else should solve it. Just putting the burden of housing on individuals by taking greater risks in the private economy and by removing restrictions that protect people from economic risks that can be quite disastrous for the private economy is not responsible behaviour. I would like the Christian Democrats to take greater political responsibility there.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1287	Mrs. Old President! The Minister of Housing spoke of communities that children deserve. Then let me talk about societies today that children do not deserve. There are children who grow up in areas where it is four times more common that people do not have their own livelihoods. There are children who live in areas where it is extremely crowded. There are children who live in areas where you are afraid that gang criminals will shoot on the streets or blow bombs in the buildings. This kind of reality is forced on many children who are growing up in Sweden today. These are at least the 60 vulnerable areas defined by the police. However, I cannot see that the government has any plan whatsoever to reverse developments or any specific strategy for those areas. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Housing what specific plans he has to reduce overcrowding and to bring up self-sufficiency in the areas. I would also like to ask what the Minister's plan is to ensure that school results are raised in those areas. And most importantly, ask the Minister what plans he has for those residential areas to be safe again in real life.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1289	Mrs. Old President! I would like to thank Robert Hannah for the questions about an incredibly important area in which we need to come up with solutions. Together, me and Robert Hannah should be proud that we come up with some solutions in this budget. One example is that we can now ensure that there will be considerably more rental apartments with a lower rent than it would have been if we had not agreed to have investment aid. We also allocate funds to the Delegation against segregation. It is precisely a matter of concrete action, for billions in the coming years. With regard to crime in particular, it is important that we meet those who commit criminal acts with concrete action. Of course they're going to jail. But we must also face them by working proactively and ensuring that new young generations are not recruited into crime. I think Robert Hannah is familiar with the 34-point program the government has developed. This means higher penalties, for example for those who recruit young people into crime and gangs. It also means support and efforts to have a social service in place during the evenings and weekends, for example, in order to create security. There are also resources for the 10,000 more police workers needed to have police officers present in the streets and squares to ensure that the criminals end up where they should go: in prison. But when it comes to overcrowding, we need to think about how we can give resources to people to create better conditions for themselves in their housing. A major investigation is now looking at the housing support available. Are they properly designed to meet the problems we now see, such as overcrowding, or do they need to be reformed? The government is working on a very broad agenda to meet the challenge that Robert Hannah highlights. I am proud and pleased that we are working together to solve these problems.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1295	Mrs. Old President! I believe that we in Sweden are seriously underestimating how housing policy can be used to ensure that it stays together. Sweden needs to look at the places where it has succeeded. In Gårdsten in Gothenburg, where I partly grew up, and in Sofielund in Malmö they have managed to reverse the trend. It has always been the property owners who have been the basis for turning an area around. We need good housing policy in order for it to turn around. Sweden needs a BID legislation so that property owners can take responsibility together. We need much stronger legislation in order to be able to forcely expropriate buildings where property owners are engaged in criminal activities. We need to ensure that social services do not pay for black contracts so that people can live in such apartments. We must ensure that not all people with income support live in the same areas. We also need to ensure that schools operate there. Unfortunately, Madam President, I do not see that the government has any plan whatsoever to reverse this. Reference is made to other policy areas, but that is not enough. With housing policy, we can reverse the situation.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1298	Mrs. Old President! I'm holding Robert Hannah that we need to work broadly. This also includes housing policy. On the other hand, I do not believe that these problems will be solved with housing policy alone. Action will be needed in a wide range of policy areas. A more active housing policy is needed if we are to find a solution. That is what we have now managed to get together with the January agreement. I hope that Robert Hannah will be there to contribute to new solutions in the remaining years of the mandate. It is important that we build cities and urban environments where people thrive and where there is a desire to socialize and meet out in the streets and squares. I believe that investment aid, like what we are presenting, with resources to build green and secure urban environments, contributes to a solution for the poor social sustainability. We also need to build urban environments where people want to meet and socialise.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1301	Mrs. Old President! I agree with the problem picture described by the Government. It is a question of overcrowding and homelessness, which is increasing. In Malmö, where I live, this affects families with children. As I described earlier, it is also about evictions, young people who cannot leave home even though many of them want to and people who cannot move to where jobs or education are. It's about segregation and poverty. Housing policy plays an important role in all of this. As the Government said, we have a responsibility to ensure that more is built. But it is the Government that is responsible. The Government has the main responsibility for this particular policy. Why does he not do anything when he understands the problem picture and sees that all these problems are increasing? Why doesn't he do anything? The Government is very much talking about investment aid, which is a very important part. I agree. Yet only 2.1 billion are being invested. If this is so important and helps in the construction of rental apartments for reasonable rents – why not invest? Why not make sure that the government takes a bigger role and invests more in building more rental apartments? The responsibility lies with the Government. Why isn't he doing this?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1304	Mrs. Old President! I disagree with Momodou Malcolm Jallow's analysis. On the contrary, I am pleased that we have now been able to put in a new shift in Swedish housing policy. We are much more active in housing policy than we have been for many decades. We invest SEK 3 billion a year in a building that has largely been lacking in the Swedish housing market. It is possible to build rental apartments that people can afford to ask for. I think it's a big deal when you say we're not doing anything. On the contrary, we have added substantial resources to bring about a change. I would like Momodou Malcolm Jallow to visit the projects that are now taking place in vulnerable areas. They would not have arrived if the government had not put in more activity in housing policy. For example, visit Rosengård in Malmö, where new residential buildings are being built that would not otherwise have been built. It is precisely such projects that give new life and new inspiration and provide a development opportunity in residential areas. This is needed. Increased housing construction is also an important part of the solution in order, for example, to reduce overcrowding. It's just an area. There are a large number of areas included in the January agreement and in this budget. So we have an active housing policy. I would like to put a counter-question to Momodou Malcolm Jallow. I was a little surprised that in your budget you have proposals for a state housing company. The state is therefore responsible for housing construction. Is this a relevant solution to the housing shortage? Is the government going to build the homes? If that is the answer here, should it also apply in all other areas? Should we have government clothing companies if we think the clothes are too expensive? Should we have government bakeries that bake bread for us if we think the food is too expensive, as some people think?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1309	Mrs. Old President! I think Per Bolund understands exactly what the Left Party means. The state must play a greater role. The Social Democrats and the Green Party tend to think that the state has a role in ensuring that people have better living conditions. When the state comes back, the market comes in. You expect the market to solve everything. It is a policy that we in the Left Party cannot stand for. It is not just the Left Party that thinks so. All research shows that the market cannot solve this. This applies in particular to market rents, which have now been proposed. It won't solve the problem. Property owners themselves say that it will not lead to them building more homes. It seems to be about fact resistance. We seem to share the problem picture, but why does the government not invest to ensure that more is built? A little bet has been made, but it's not enough. Why do you not invest more when you think that investment support works?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1312	Mrs. Old President! I thought I was clear in my previous speech that I do not believe that the market can solve everything. Active housing policies are needed to meet the needs of the housing market. The market is very good at meeting the needs of those who have a large income or a fortune that they can invest. For decades, however, the market has failed to meet the needs of housing that even people with lower incomes can afford to live in. That is why we are now spending billions. This is about a level of 3 billion a year. This will benefit those in need of housing to whom they can afford to move in. I would like to develop this further. Now all we could do was save the support. After all, the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats removed it entirely from their budget from the political agenda to finance major tax cuts. This is therefore an important step for us to once again have an active housing policy for the great needs that exist.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1315	Mrs. Old President! I'd like to ask the housing minister why he doesn't listen to the police. The police warn that vulnerable areas are growing stronger in Sweden. There will be more areas, even if it has become a smaller one. In the last report, there is still a major problem. There is also a great risk that in time there will be more vulnerable areas in Sweden. The police have said that one of the five measures that are important for it to operate in these areas in order to create greater security is that it itself can operate there safely. It is a question, for example, of retreating roads being blocked today and of standing on viaducts throwing stones and in other ways attacking police and blue light personnel. There are concrete proposals from the police in the area of housing policy that could make it easier for the police to operate in the areas. There, for example, the Swedish Democrats have proposed that the municipalities should be able to apply for grants from the state of SEK 250 million for a district planning that enables the police to operate in a more secure way in these areas. Why do we not see more proposals in this area than the latest proposal to introduce changes to the EBO law? There are a lot of policy proposals in this area that could increase security. The area of housing policy is an important one. The Swedish Democrats have presented, among other things, the proposal I mentioned just now. Why isn't the government getting involved?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1320	Mrs. Old President! It is an incorrect entry that Roger Hedlund has into this exchange of views. On the contrary, the government is doing exactly what Roger Hedlund is asking, namely listening to the police. That is why we are now coming up with a large number of concrete measures to tackle gang crime. It is, of course, a question of giving more resources to the police and getting more police workers, but it is also a question of giving the police the tools they need, such as tougher legislation to put those who recruit young people into gang crime in prison and more severe penalties. However, as the police repeatedly point out, it will not be possible to solve this problem on its own, but rather to cooperate with municipalities, social services and schools. That is precisely why we are making efforts for a more equal school. We are investing billions in ensuring that there are resources for a social service that is present in the streets and squares even in the evenings and weekends, in order to catch up on those children who are otherwise at risk of gang crime. With regard to the specific issue of de-planning, it is important to remind the House that the planning of residential areas is a municipal matter. It is the municipalities that are responsible for planning in a way that meets the wishes of the residents, as well as the needs for transport and for our authorities to be able to carry out their tasks. We have support that is included in the budget, and that is support for green, secure societies. There we raise the issue of security and building environments that create greater security. The Swedish democrats unfortunately say no to this and want to withdraw that money. There I would like the Swedish Democrats to have a little more thought and saw the need to also have resources to rebuild the vulnerable urban areas so that they become more socially sustainable. There, the Swedish Democrats have the opportunity to change and understand the need for the state to enter and contribute to building environments that create social sustainability.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1324	Mrs. Old President! For example, the Swedish Democrats have proposed that a basis be developed for building safer residential areas. But also for the residential areas that exist today and that need more security, a basis should be developed. A dialogue is needed between the state, the municipality, property owners and many other stakeholders in the area, to get better opportunities for the police to operate in the areas and to create greater security so that people dare to move out in the evenings and weekends. This means greater perceived security but also that more people are on the move. All these pieces are very important in order for us to get things right in the affected areas, but the Swedish Democrats' proposal to give funding to the municipalities in order to be able to area plans is a concrete proposal that the government has not caught up in and that could really bring about a change in this area.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1326	Mrs. Old President! This exchange of views clearly highlights the problem in Sweden's democrats' world view, and that is that people from other countries and the vulnerable areas are only seen as problems. According to this policy, housing in these areas should preferably be demolished. It is therefore a question of phasing out rather than developing. I think this is a lamentable picture which only creates more conflict in our society and does not help to solve the underlying problems. I think that what Mr Hedlund has said in this House today shows that it does not understand how Sweden works today either. This applies, for example, to all the work and efforts that foreign-born and second-generation immigrants do in Sweden today, for example in the construction industry. If this addition of personnel and resources did not exist in the construction industry, we would not get the housing construction that Sweden so badly needs. My wish to Roger Hedlund and the Swedish Democrats is: Stop seeing people with foreign background as just a problem! They are actually a resource for Sweden.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1329	Mrs. Old President! Per Bolund says here in the speaker's chair that the government has now finally got the change. This is a little comfort if you have not even managed to start the engine, because it is somewhere there that the government is in its so-called active housing policy. Mrs. Old President! It happens that the Government has got six proposals out of its hands that can be attributed with a little goodwill to the area of housing policy. The only proposals that are about increasing construction in any way are therefore a bill relating to patios and a bill relating to attefallshus. That's the government's conclusion. Of course, not all responsibility can be placed on the Minister for Housing. This is, of course, employer responsibility, because we have a housing minister on a part-time basis. He is primarily party leader, second finance minister and sometimes, when the opportunity arises, he also deals with housing issues. It is of course Stefan Löfven who is responsible for this division of responsibilities. Nevertheless, I would like to be constructive and ask the Government a question. Is it not high time to ensure that we get noise regulation that is not measured on the outside of the facade, but inside the home, where people choose to live?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1333	Mrs. Old President! It is regrettable that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin underestimates my ability to work. I can promise that we will be able to implement a great deal of housing policy with me as Minister of Housing. It is perhaps time to recall that even under the Moderate-led Government there was a Minister of Housing who was also Minister of Finance Market. If it worked then you should be happy with it even in this situation. I am strongly opposed to Mr Bohlin's description. We now see that we have increased activity in Swedish housing policy, with 26 000 homes that had not arrived without investment support. And that's just the list so far. There will now be tens of thousands more housing in the housing market that will benefit everyone who needs, who is in short supply and who has a great need. I think that Mr Bohlin should give his speech in, for example, Rosengård, where new building can now be built thanks to the existence of investment support. It is easy to sit on their high horses and knock down on other people's housing policies in this House, but when you are out and see what benefit it actually does in Sweden today in our society you may not have as high horses anymore. I have to say, I think it's a little strange. We have, for example, responded to an announcement by the Moderates themselves in the committee, through our proposal on patios, that we should free patios from building permits. Then it is a bit bleak to come and complain that we are presenting such a proposal. It would have been free for the Moderates not to support such an announcement if they were dissatisfied with the outcome. It is quite wrong to describe it as being the only thing we have done. We have put forward a number of proposals, but, of course, housing policy is carried out with many other tools as well, not least the budget that we are discussing here and now. The difference between the Moderates and the Red-Green Government is abyss depth. The Moderates use housing policy as a source of funding for large tax cuts. We use it as an instrument for increased construction.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1339	Mrs. Old President! Just to make it clear: I am not complaining about the proposals put forward by the government, but I am complaining about the proposals that the government has not put forward. Now it is claimed that a change has been made, but in principle there has not been a proper proposal for housing policy this parliamentary term. So this is a government that has been in power for six years. Nevertheless, it is only possible to perform in the case of patios and duplex houses during this period. It is possible that only the Minister for Housing and perhaps the Left Party believes that housing could not be built in Malmö without government housing subsidies – in Sweden's third largest city. I return to my question on noise regulations. Would the Government consider responding to it?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1343	Mrs. Old President! I think sometimes you need to look at reality. For example, there is also a need to ask those who are actually affected by the reforms now being carried out by the government. I would like to encourage Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin to read the review from the Swedish Municipalities and Regions of precisely the investment aid to see what effects they have had. There he can read black and white. It is an organization now led by the bourgeois parties. It states that without this support it would not have been the construction that we now see. There had been less construction, fewer apartments and significantly higher rental levels. I think that is a sufficient answer. With regard to the issue of noise regulations, I think that we, as politicians, have a responsibility also to listen to the expertise. I do not think that either Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin or I have the best knowledge and expertise to say exactly how to measure noise and say exactly what consequences these decisions will have. We know that noise has a major impact on human health and stress levels and on many of the problems we see in our society today. But I also think it goes without saying that people should have the right not only to have a dwelling but also to be able to open the window in their home. Then it may also be relevant that you actually measure the noise even when the window is open and not only when it is closed.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1345	Mrs. Old President! Per Bolund may have many different tasks, but today he is here as Minister of Housing. Then I think it is everyone's responsibility to take advantage of this opportunity and to justify our fee. I shall raise an issue that is very important for the Center Party. We are also seeing a cleavage in the housing market. We have a lot of pressure in the big cities. We have high building prices and high land prices. Construction companies are in line to build, and it is not possible to obtain enough buildable land. But we also see the situation that we have in Sweden's rural areas. Because you have low land values and low property values, you cannot attract construction companies to come and build housing there in the same way. This can have many different reasons. One such reason, I think, may be that you are not able to make use of the attractiveness that can be found in that you actually have a good environment to offer with opportunities to build near the beach. We can also see tendencies that appeals that are common in many parts of Sweden can affect individual homeowners. In a town called Svartrå outside Falkenberg, a successful local entrepreneur wants to build a villa. However, this is appealed by a nature conservation association in the neighbouring municipality. In general, it would be interesting to hear Per Bolund's views on rural development and the opportunities he sees for increasing the attractiveness of rural areas precisely to attract construction investments.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1349	Mrs. Old President! I thank Ola Johansson for an important question. I hope that we agree that the whole of Sweden will develop and that it will be possible to build housing and build its future no matter where in Sweden you want to live. Then we must also ensure that there are opportunities to make investments. Some issues are included in the January agreement, which we jointly support. This involves, for example, giving a mandate to review depreciation rules in order to facilitate construction in sparsely populated parts of the country where there is not enough economy at present. But it is also important, for example, to review the building permit rules for those who want to build their farm. This also applies to the investment aid that we have introduced and which Ola Johansson mentioned in his speech. He described that when it was removed there were many councillors around the country who called and said that the construction they had looked forward to now did not happen. This shows that investment aid makes a difference. This means that you can build on markets where there is otherwise insufficient economic basis. We therefore need to work broadly on this issue. We also need to see if there are any further proposals that we can catch up to make it a greater opportunity for construction throughout the country. That is something that the Red Green Government is very clearly behind. I think that in the January agreement we have caught up important pieces of the puzzle to ensure that there are more opportunities to build, live and operate throughout our country.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1352	Mrs. Old President! It was welcome that the Minister for Housing presented some of the proposals that the Center Party has managed to negotiate up to the January agreement. Of course, there are still some issues that need to be resolved. It is also a question of giving rural areas the opportunity to benefit from their attractiveness and that there should be more opportunity to build close to the shore than before. We still see how difficult it is to have the opportunity to build, for example, next to a dry ditch or to a low-exploited lake or coastal strip. It would be welcome if Per Bolund had the opportunity to develop his thoughts on how simplified beach protection could facilitate housing in rural areas. I would also like to state that the Center Party is behind a possible initiative that would be about changing the noise benchmarks. I assume that it will come up as a matter in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in due course.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1355	Mrs. Old President! I take it that Ola Johansson believes that he is competent to determine the impact of noise on human health and that he has the necessary expertise. I may still have reason to question whether it is here in the Swedish Parliament that we have the best knowledge of it. It might be better if those who actually have a long experience of the health effects of construction and noise can have a word on the team. With regard to the protection of the beach, which Ola Johansson is also asking about, we have agreed that we should review it. We from the Green Party and the government are behind that. I hope that Ola Johansson will also support it, because we have agreed on it. This will make it more possible to build in parts of the country where it can be difficult today. However, we will also look at whether there is a need to even strengthen the protection of the shore in areas where there is a very high exploitation pressure and where access to beaches is limited. We know that beaches have a very great recreational value and also a great value for biodiversity. It must also be included in the evaluation.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1357	Mrs. Old President! Now we have listened to a lot of housing policy. But there are other areas that the Committee on Civil Liberties also deals with. I will talk about consumer policy. The Government's objectives for consumer policy are well-functioning consumer markets and environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. It sounds good, but it has a lot of overweight in terms of durability. Instead, we Swedish democrats want a goal for all consumers to be able to consume sustainable, safe and active. That may sound similar. But since the targets were changed, we have seen that less focus on active elections has been in practice. For example, the government thinks it is perfectly okay to enter Made into the EU on products and goods sold in Sweden. The country of origin is not so important, and it will also be more difficult to choose actively as a consumer. If you only want to buy sustainable, you can urge everyone to buy used on Blocket. It's not wrong that things are being re-used. But that's hardly the whole solution. For us, being able to choose actively and also have a strong basic level of security in the consumer market is equally important. Per Bolund said when we were at a debate at Sweden's Consumers before the 2018 elections that he wanted to see a country of origin label on the menu. I welcomed it, as it has been the line of my party for many years. Now, however, the government seems to have satisfied itself with the EU regulation that has come and where the minimum requirement is that it is sufficient for the origin to be found somewhere in the premises or on a brochure. I have also drawn attention to the fact that this is included in the January agreement, although it is somewhat unclear whether we want to go further in any way than what the European Union has already decided for us. I do not think there will be any labelling on the menu that Per Bolund so proudly waved with during the debate at Sweden's Consumers, but we will see how it will be in the future. Regardless of which, labelling, and not least of origin, is something that we see as crucial for whether it is possible to make active choices at all. As far as consumer market security is concerned, there must be a solid level of security. We have a tradition that it should be free for consumers and traders to negotiate away the laws and rules that we legislators have set up. However, this becomes problematic when a contract is concluded by accepting the terms with a click on a button or a cross in a box. In principle, no one reads the conditions that are imposed when buying something online or when starting a new phone. In addition, it is usually laid down that these conditions must be accepted in order to move forward. Consumers simply rely on the existence of a regulatory framework regardless of what is stated in the agreement they have just approved. Therefore, our rules must be clearer and also more restrictive as to what can be agreed off. It is about creating more security in consumer markets. Mrs. Old President! I would also like to talk a little about so-called 'order powers', that is to say, the money that the budget commits for several years to come and that a new government cannot influence because it has been promised away for the coming years. I think it is an important democratic principle that appropriations that lock up money for many years to come are used with caution and as restrictive as it is only possible. In the past, it has been only in the area of housing and construction that this has been used in the Committee on Civil Liberties's budget, but now we see that it is also beginning to come in the area of consumer affairs. When it comes to housing, there is a logic in that this money is promised away for several years, as it often takes several years to build, for example, an apartment building – nothing strange about that, really. But why promise money for many years to come to associations on the consumer side? Associations never receive any promises of money for many years to come from the municipalities, so why should it be different when they search through Parliament's activities? That is questionable. We think it should be possible to change support for associations between the years. In addition, several associations receive support which is at the edge of what can be considered to be the core of consumer policy. For the coming years, I hope that the government will stop allocating so-called appropriations in areas where it is definitely not needed. On the contrary, there are advantages to the fact that the regulatory framework can be changed for associations, especially if we are serious about the money going to the interests of consumers throughout the country. Mrs. Old President! Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1369	Mrs. Old President! We want an equal society that creates security. In equal societies, health is better, security is greater and economic development is better. People simply feel better in equal societies. We in the Left Party will continue to work to ensure that Sweden will once again become one of the most equal countries in the world. We want to break the trend of growing gaps that are going on right now. There are many areas to work on in terms of greater equality, and the area of consumer protection is one of these important areas. It is an everyday area that affects all of us. But we are different: Some are rich and can choose and wreck, and they can consume much and expensive. Others have a well-functioning everyday life and make it through the days – sometimes with a bit of gold edge. But there are also those who have a tough life situation and who have to carefully evaluate each purchase in order to make everyday life come together. Creating security for consumers and especially supporting the most vulnerable in society is an important task. It is about supporting those who have the most difficulty making their voice heard and supporting those whose smallest purchase is a major investment. Being a consumer is becoming increasingly difficult and more complicated. Products are becoming more and more technologically advanced, and the Internet allows goods and services to be purchased across borders, from all corners of the world. A global market presents opportunities but also challenges. On a daily basis, we are overwhelmed by advertising, which calls on us to consume more. Marketing is often aggressive and risks hitting those groups of consumers who are already economically vulnerable. Not many days ago, Black Friday swept over us like a small tidal wave. It was hard to miss, as the advertising exposure was massive. Everywhere there were lower prices and fantastic offers, and all sorts were on the train – from electronics giants to pharmacies. Several were also the articles that warned that consumers could be fooled during this sale period, and Black Friday only started until it poped up articles about different companies that didn't stick to the rules. It is not easy to navigate through the shopping hysteria. Earlier this autumn Ekot's review Prylarna's price reported on how the lifetime of electronic gadgets is only getting shorter and shorter. The life span of appliances, consumer electronics and furniture is much shorter today than it was just ten years ago. Low prices make it easier to buy new products, but there is a risk that we will have to buy gadgets more and more often. It also risks increasing the overall cost. The total cost is higher when the coffee maker is to be bought at ever more frequent intervals, and consumers and the climate are to take the fall. Consumers must feel secure and have the opportunity to receive proper support. Here, consumer guidance and civil society organisations play an important role in reaching as many people as possible and creating knowledgeable and secure consumers, especially in reaching the vulnerable groups that are most difficult to make the choices they need and are most vulnerable. Here, non-profit organisations can promote sustainable consumption through their knowledge, networks and contacts with consumers in all groups. They can support consumers and prevent consumer problems. Civil society has shown innumerable results with little means. That is why we in the Left Party want to restore the funds used, among other things, to support those civil society organisations that promote consumer interests. It's not a huge sum, but it's probably so important. In the area of consumer policy, the increasing number of municipalities offering consumer guidance is worrying. In order for all consumers to have good access to consumer guidance, the resources for this need to be increased. We in the Left Party are therefore investing in the municipalities in the country being able to hire more consumer advisors. It should be possible to obtain consumer support throughout the country. It is important to have knowledgeable and enlightened consumers who can make balanced choices – for themselves, for society and for a sustainable future.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1378	Mrs. Old President! With regard to this with an equal society: I have never heard anyone stand in the pulpit and say that it wants an unequal society. I can therefore fully agree with Mr Thorbjörnson that we should have an equal society. The question is what it means to us. For me, this does not mean that everyone should have exactly as much money to move around with, which I thought I could imagine in Jon Thorbjörnson's speech when he came into the knowledge that some can afford a golden edge while others can't afford a golden edge. In fact, some of those who can afford a golden edge have also spent a great deal of their lives on perhaps studying longer than what you have to do to educate yourself to something higher and thus somewhere have earned this money in a way that perhaps not everyone who can't afford it has done. I really wonder: what did Jon Thorbjörnson mean when he said that some people can afford a gold edge and that others do not have it and that there is a problem here in terms of equality?
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1382	Mrs. Old President! It was a statement that we have different conditions in the world. Some people can afford a gold edge, others can't. For those who cannot afford a gold edge and who must weigh every choice they make in their everyday lives on a gold scale, it is important that there is support. It is about when consumption is not luxury but the most necessary and you may have to choose whether you can buy a Christmas present or whether you have to focus on food. The choice may apply if you can buy a pair of new shoes for football practice, if you have to buy a pair of used ones or if you can't afford to buy a pair of used ones either. It was a statement that we have different conditions in the world. There, as a state, we have a responsibility to ensure that we support the people who are the toughest in society.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1385	Mrs. Old President! I do not really know what this has to do with the consumer policy of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, but there is certainly some strange connection. After all, support for people in vulnerable situations is not at all under the responsibility of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, but rather under the responsibility of the Social Security Committee. There are probably many points where we can agree that people who are vulnerable may need more support. However, this does not mean that they should be seen as equal in a consumer market.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1387	Mrs. Old President! Support can be given in many different ways, and support is not just about people getting money. Support is about getting a regulatory framework that can be followed and that is simple and clear and that you can get support with understanding all the complicated rules that exist. This is especially true when we have a market that is global, when it is border trade and when buying online. There are many companies that are blowing on with advertising, and it is important not to be fooled everywhere. If you have difficulty making everyday life go together, it can be difficult to understand all the rules that follow a purchase. A purchase – even a small purchase – can be the most important thing to do. For us in the Swedish Parliament, which has a high fee, it is no problem to go out and buy a couple of gym pads. If they break or there's a problem with them and you can't trade them, we can buy a couple more. But there are people in our society who do not have that luxury, and it is important that there is consumer guidance that can help and support them all the way through so that their children, for example, get sneakers and get a good everyday life.
i-dacdf71fb5c43c8e-1391	Mrs. Old President! My speech will also deal with consumer policy. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs to be approved. A few days ago it was Black Friday. On the same day, there were climate demonstrations all over the globe ahead of the climate summit that is now taking place in Madrid. It was our young people who were out demonstrating in the streets and squares. It's forces and counterforces. It is right to reflect and prompts me to ask questions such as: What is a good life? What is a good life for us humans? What is a good life for the animals and nature on this planet? What is a good life for the planet we have borrowed from our children and grandchildren? For many of us, I believe that a good life is a safe upbringing for our children, with good economic conditions. Speaking of Black Friday, there is nothing wrong with buying goods at a reduced price. The problem is when people are tempted to make purchases that they don't have to do — when they are lured into overconsumption and porridge from the household purse. One of the objectives of consumer policy is socially sustainable consumption. In this respect, it is extremely important to provide consumer information and support, so that consumers are told what rights they have and can be helped to pursue cases if necessary. In 2018, the Swedish Consumer Agency had extensive consumer support, and consumer guidance was given to a greater extent than ever before. For example, the number of visits to the Swedish Consumer Agency's website Hallå konsument increased by 20 per cent. At the same time, we are now seeing municipalities cut back on voluntary consumer guidance, and that is something that is very worrying. This particularly affects those consumers who are vulnerable and who need personal meetings, such as the elderly, people with disabilities and new arrivals. The government is therefore considering various measures to achieve more needs-oriented consumer support and is also considering how to work with preventive measures, i.e. measures that are put in place before it is too late and before the person is in debt. Mrs. Old President! Another objective of consumer policy is environmentally sustainable consumption. I recently had the privilege of visiting Kiasma. It is the modern museum – a museum of contemporary art – in Helsinki. It's usually said that art is like diving into the subconscious of the present. In connection with an exhibition at the museum, one can read that environmental issues and the coexistence of humans and animals have long interested the artists but that the theme in particular during the 21st century has become burning topical. The artists investigate how we can live in a sustainable way alongside other species. They examine man's longing for a deeper relationship with nature. A good life is for many today to be able to live in harmony with nature and to stay within the limits of the planet. Adults are driving this, but also young people and our children are. My seven - year - old, for example, asks many questions at home about climate, animals and nature, with curiosity and joy, but also with great concern. We adults need to be able to tell them that we take responsibility. Overconsumption drives climate emissions and is devastating to biodiversity – for a wealth of animals and nature. Much has been done for environmentally friendly consumption. For example, the Swedish Consumer Agency, on behalf of the Government, has worked with a forum for environmentally smart consumption. It has met companies, municipalities and organisations and has received good credentials in the evaluations that have been carried out. This is an important forum that needs to be kept alive. We will also evaluate this in order to achieve a good efficiency on the whole. The eco-label has been developed with more products and with more criteria. This, too, is something we are investing in. The Swedish Consumer Agency has supervised several different areas. This applies, for example, to digital commerce but also to environmental claims in marketing. The companies that really do environmental work really need to be rewarded; greenwashing can never be okay. Much has been done, but much remains to be done. Mrs. Old President! It needs to be out of wear and tear. We need to make a system shift from a linear to a circular economy. System shift is precisely the word the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency uses to describe a survey they have done about how we look at clothes. Seven out of ten might consider buying secondhand clothing today, compared with four out of ten a year ago. Nine out of ten people can imagine repairing clothing if they know that it contributes to a better environment. The Green Party is pushing for us to make demands that products have a better service life so that they last longer and that demands are made for products to be repaired. Within the framework of the January Agreement, we also agree on several actions for a circular economy. A circular economy strategy is currently under way. It is a strategy for the future that is not about We want to introduce a hyber credit so that it will be cheaper to rent, to buy used and to repair. It will also be examined whether it is possible to introduce a product passport stating where products come from, what they contain and how they can be recycled. We also agree to prepare a target for consumption-based climate emissions. Finally, an environmentally strong consumer policy is needed to meet people's commitment to climate and nature and to respond to the calls that young people are making to us today. A socially strong consumer policy is also needed to meet people in vulnerable situations and prevent people from falling into debt. It is good both for us humans and for animals, nature and the planet.
