i-de51fac3af59e328-15	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure the purpose of the strengthened legislation on client liability. I have previously answered a written question by Thomas Morell on customer responsibility. As I pointed out earlier, the government decided to tighten up the ordering responsibility for international transport and cabotage in spring 2018. The amended rules have been in force a little over a year and need to be evaluated before it is possible to draw any conclusions on their impact. Furthermore, on 22 August this year, the Government has set up an investigation into more effective checks on road traffic. The mandate includes, among other things, reviewing the way in which the control activities of road commercial transport are carried out and making proposals for improvement measures. Another part of the mission is for the investigator to analyse and propose further breaches of rules in the field of professional traffic that should be subject to a change of sanction from criminal sanctions to fines. The mandate includes that the investigator shall analyse whether, for example, breaches of the rules on ordering liability should be subject to a change of sanction.
i-de51fac3af59e328-19	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! However, I am a little concerned about the response I have received from the Government on the strengthened legislation on ordering responsibility. The legislation concerns breaches of customer responsibility, and the tightening up was introduced on 1 July 2018. So the sharpening is more than a year old. Yet it is not fully applied, and I will give examples of this here. The Government refers to the recent investigation into more effective controls. Although the investigation into more effective checks on commercial road traffic is welcome, that investigation has nothing to do with the question I have asked. On the contrary, my question highlights the fact that prosecutors do not pursue flagrant violations of client responsibility, which is extremely serious. In its reply, the Government said that the amended rules have been in force for a little over a year and need to be evaluated before it is possible to draw any conclusions on their impact. ..................................................... In my interpellation to the Government, I made the following comment: a prosecutor chooses not to pursue the matter as a breach of the customer responsibility, and thus there will never be a report, i.e. the matter will never be reported, and therefore there are no statistics, as this matter simply does not exist. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It will not have a very good effect on the strengthened legislation unless prosecutors choose to take obvious cases to court. No investigation is required to understand cause and effect. I would therefore like to return this debate to the very core issue, namely ordering responsibility. Madam President, I would like Let me quote what is on the Swedish Transport Agency's website regarding the customer responsibility: ..................................................... The first point is as follows: If professional traffic has been carried out without authorisation, the person who ordered the transport will be sentenced if he or she:
i-de51fac3af59e328-26	(b) ordered the transport of the railway undertaking and did not, intentionally or negligently, verify the possession of the authorisation at the time of transport in a manner which may reasonably be requested. The penalty is a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of one year. ..................................................... So far if there is no valid permit. A little simplistic can be said that this is essentially the case with older legislation, 2012:210. Then came the sharpening last summer. This is where it gets interesting. It is clear from this that: In the case of international goods or passenger services which have been operated without authorisation or in breach of the cabotage rules, the person who ordered the transport is sentenced if he or she:
i-de51fac3af59e328-31	Then it becomes clear that the penalty is fined. What prompted me to submit a written question was precisely a case in which the prosecutor chose not to report a flagrant breach of the rules. It would be interesting to hear how the Government intends to respond to such a thing.
i-de51fac3af59e328-33	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the obvious. As a minister, I cannot and should not have views on how a prosecutor conducts an individual case. That would be extremely inappropriate. The judiciary must be separate from politics, whether it be members of parliament or government representatives, and it must operate on the basis of current legislation. If legislation has been in force for about a year, perhaps it is only now that we can see the effect of it. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that the investigation that we have set up on more effective checks on professional traffic has definitely to do with this. If we can find an opportunity to change sanctions in the area of ordering liability, we will have a more efficient and, in this sense, less bureaucratic management of the controls that need to be carried out in the procurement of transport. We can compare this with the old regime in the case of infringements of driving and rest rules with fines, which were sent to a company in Romania or Lithuania, and where the probability of those fines being paid was relatively low. There we have exchanged so that it is possible to charge fees on site. You don't leave the place until you've paid your dues. It has been an effective effort. We also see that cabotage control has become more effective. This has happened since we changed the government in 2014. Before 2014 with a moderate-led government – something that Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats think is desirable; you support the Moderates and want them in government – nothing was done. There was no squabbling, no fines, no ordering liability or winter tyre legislation. There were no bets. There were no additional resources available to the traffic police for cabotage controls. And there was definitely no investigation into how to tighten up the controls on the way. These things have happened since the government took office. There are more effective tools for the police to intervene against unauthorised cabotage and combined traffic. There are now increased possibilities for controls; they have doubled between 2017 and 2018 in terms of police efforts in the form of cabotage checks and reporting to the Swedish Transport Agency. An investigation is now being carried out, and I would like to see a new form of organisation – call it a professional traffic inspection – which may have completely different possibilities to intervene against the illegal cabotage traffic we see. This has been made possible by the fact that we soon have an agreement in place in the EU on the mobility package, which we negotiated in December – a Swedish success with Denmark, Germany and some other countries. Now, after the trial, we hopefully have a completely different system that requires posting from day one for combined and cabotage traffic, completely different possibilities for controls through smart tachographs and clear rules for how long you can be here in Sweden and drive. I wanted to take this broad view because I think it is important for those following the debate to know that it is during this time that it is happening. It is during our reign that we have made efforts. The customer responsibility is an important signal that the professional orders transport also have a responsibility along the entire chain. The prosecutors shall apply this. I cannot comment on how they do it in individual cases. But we will evaluate it, and no one should doubt the Government's ambition to have more effective controls to ensure fair competition conditions for Swedish haulage industry and order and fix Swedish roads.
i-de51fac3af59e328-42	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! I am well aware that the Government cannot point the whole hand at a public prosecutor. However, there is still reason for us who are working on this activity to review why the legislation does not have the effect it should reasonably have. You can ask that question. Then it is interesting with the history description. Tomas Eneroth is well aware that we have a Member of the European Parliament, named Peter Lundgren, who has successfully pursued these issues together with the late Jens Nilsson. He has done so with credit, so it is not only the Social Democrats who have pushed this issue. But I want to go back to what is at the heart of this. The control carried out by the police of the foreign train service, where it was found that the vehicle combination carried out illegal cabotage traffic in Sweden, clearly highlights what is the major problem. The empty tow truck arrived in Sweden by ferry to Stockholm. Just to show you what an empty tow truck is, I'm holding up this picture. There is no possibility of carrying out freight transport with one of these. The prerequisite for cabotage is that there is an incoming international transport to the country, and it is not a question of when you arrive with an empty tow truck. The driver had been ordered to go down to Gothenburg and pick up a trailer there. Then domestic transport began in Sweden. When the combination was stopped eight days later, four national shipments had been carried out for eight days. So there'll be three of a kind in the wrong place. The first is that the tractor comes in unladen, without the incoming international transport. The second is that more than three domestic transports are carried out with the combination. The third is that the period of time is longer than seven days. It was also found during the police investigation that at least one previous occasion the haulier concerned had been engaged in unauthorised cabotage operations. It shows that we do not really care about the legislation that exists. The inspector also discovered that it was the same freight forwarder who was the principal of the haulage company. In this case, the freight forwarder is the customer of the shipment. The farm is the one who performs, and so is the haulage company that has a permit. There was a Community permit, so it was no problem so far. It was just that the rules on cabotage were not complied with. In other words, neither freight forwarders nor foreign carriers care about the legislation in force. They know that it is almost risk-free to violate the rules in force in Sweden. That's because we have very few checks out on the road. However, if you are stopped and reported for shortcomings in your activity, it does not lead to an action. This is particularly serious because it causes Swedish hauliers and entrepreneurs to lose confidence in the authorities' ability to really get to those who cheat consciously, and deliberately cheating is a poison in our society.
i-ELZXys6yEJhVMXMxVCFbra	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! I can agree with a great deal of the argument. We must have increased controls, intervene against fraud and ensure that the conditions of competition are fair. That's what we're working for. That is what we have seen now that 400 police officers are trained in cabotage controls and there has been a threefold increase in the number of reported cases from the police to the Swedish Transport Agency. It's a success. Nevertheless, I would like us to proceed with an investigation into further control activities – let us call it a professional traffic inspection. Thomas Morell's dilemma in this, I would just like to point out, is that he and the Swedish Democrats prefer a moderate-led government. They have voted against Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister and think it was better at the time when we had a government that did not lift a finger to create order in professional traffic. There's a credibility issue there. On the substance of the matter, it is clear that we must follow up the legislation. It is clear that we must ensure that it becomes as sharp as many of us who want to protect the Swedish transport industry want it to be. In addition, we can take advantage of the discussion and commitment that exists today in the haulage industry. Fair Transport 2.0 has taken an initiative to certify and label those actors who not only comply with the legislation but also have higher and better ambitions in terms of road haulage companies' climate, social and safety responsibilities. It also gives a good signal to transport buyers not to look for the cheapest, easiest transport but actually to take responsibility for the fact that the person we meet on the road, who drives a heavy vehicle of perhaps 60 tonnes, should be a trained driver from a company that respects the driving and rest rules and has modern vehicles. If you want this to be the development we have on Swedish roads, Fair Transport is a good tool. Customer responsibility is another tool. Let us evaluate it and see if it can be tightened up further. Let us see how the application has been. But let us not, whether we are Members or Ministers of State, be tempted to go in and have views on or comment on how a prosecutor acts on an individual matter. I don't want that kind of order. We must respect the fact that the prosecutors are those who today have the responsibility of the rule of law society to act on the basis of the legislation we have. Prosecutors actually have so-called charge. That obligation has the prosecutors, and I cannot make a different assessment than that they comply with Swedish law and do their best to continue to act. But we are definitely going to follow up the legislation. We are not getting away from the basic issue. What we need to see in Sweden is a change where transport buyers take greater responsibility for the transport that takes place on our roads. For a long time, the motto has always been to squeeze prices and margins. The effect of this has been that we have had Eastern European transport companies with social dumping and sometimes poor road safety on our roads. Drivers who are in parking pockets, sleeping in the cabin and cooking outside are not recruiting people to the transport industry. It does not increase attractiveness or even safety on our roads when we have such a development in the transport industry. This is what we choose to act against by raising the status of the transport industry, making stricter and clearer demands and increasing control activities, but also being clear in the signal to the person ordering transport. Swedish companies ordering transport also have a responsibility for what it looks like on our roads and which carriers you choose. That's the basic idea of ordering responsibility. This is the starting point when we are now working with Fair Transport 2.0 from the industry. This is how we will ensure that we strengthen the Swedish transport industry.
i-de51fac3af59e328-59	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answer, Tomas Eneroth. Ordering and knowing our paths is an absolute requirement. Tomas Eneroth is well aware of the commitment that drives me on these issues. It won't be a quiet moment until we've just got things sorted out. It is interesting to listen to the Government, too much of what we have heard here is what lies in our motion proposals. I therefore welcome the fact that the Social Democrats will support them. I am also convinced that the Government has visited the police on several occasions and received reports on the activities on the way. Nevertheless, I would like to invite the Government to visit some of the absolute best control officials in the country and there, on the spot, get a picture of what it really looks like. I am at the Government's disposal to arrange a very interesting and instructive visit whenever desired. I guarantee it'll be an aha experience. Let us now jointly do something about the problem we have on the road. I mentioned an example where a prosecutor chose not to report. It was not a one-off event, but this is something that my old colleagues often struggle with. They feel a frustration that the cases do not go to court and get an outcome there so that fines are imposed on those who do not behave. It is a problem of trust in the authority that it does not lead to that. I very much hope that the Government will now follow the invitation to go out on the road and meet my old colleagues. It'll be very interesting.
i-de51fac3af59e328-65	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! I'm very often out there and I'm in that kind of control-- it's important to me. I also have similar visits planned in the near future. It is important to see how the traffic police and car inspectors work on site, but also to see how the industry works. I am also out with the Transport Workers' Association and Åkeriföretagen, who are working together precisely to create better order and order. That's how we work in Sweden. This is what is called the Swedish model – that we work together to improve conditions. Nevertheless, it is important for legislation to be evaluated. In our roles as Minister or Member of Parliament, we have the opportunity to come up with proposals for how legislation can be changed, strengthened or improved. But we should not end up in a situation where we start criticising individual prosecutors or dealing with individual cases. We should not have such a development. I will monitor and evaluate the customer responsibility. I believe that everyone sees the commitment and willingness of this government to bring order to the transport industry. We also see that, with squeezing, fines, ordering liability, increased cabotage controls and perhaps a professional traffic inspection, there are opportunities to ensure that the time when the operation was unregulated and the lowest price and free movement without controls is over. Now it is order and order in the market that should apply, with clear controls on the part of society. But there is also a responsibility for the companies in Sweden that professionally buy transport. I am talking to many transport buyers about these very issues. Basically, this is about what security and security we want on our roads.
i-de51fac3af59e328-69	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me whether I intend to urgently review how we are going to get the whole country to run businesses without being hindered by inadequate infrastructure. On 17 September this year, I answered a written question from Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, explaining a number of the government's efforts to promote across the country the needs of business for freight transport. Transport is crucial for the whole country to grow and live. In the cross-road national plan for transport infrastructure for the period 2018–2029, the Government has carried out major investments in Sweden's infrastructure. Measures to strengthen the freight transport sector are one of the priority areas. The Government's national freight transport strategy presents a number of actions that are now under planning and implementation. These include investments in important freight routes, the deepening of fairways, efforts to increase road load and specific investments in road and rail maintenance in rural areas. Sweden is a large and elongated country in a European perspective. The different modes of transport – road, maritime, rail and air transport – have different strengths and weaknesses, exist in different geographical locations and are used for different purposes. The Traffic Act complements each other and interacts with each other. Road transport is advantageous on short distances and where, for economic or logistical reasons, it is not interesting to choose other modes of transport, such as the transport of timber from felling areas. Rail traffic as a mode of transport combines parts of the flexibility of road traffic and shipping even the ability to transport very large volumes. As a result of our geographical conditions, the transport alternatives are different in Sweden. However, no one should have to doubt that the government's investment in infrastructure is taking place throughout the country in order, among other things, to improve the conditions for freight transport.
i-de51fac3af59e328-75	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer, both to my written question and to my interpellation. But I honestly don't know if the answer made me so much wiser. It was a very clear list of the investments that are being made and will be made. My question about meeting the need for infrastructure throughout the country is much greater than that. It obviously includes different modes of transport included in the list of the Minister for Infrastructure. But it also includes various transport routes, logistics, access to resources and procurement of adapted infrastructure. I have met with similar issues on numerous company visits – we are trying to be environmentally friendly and climate-smart, but that is not possible. If you run companies in Västerbotten's hinterland, the alternatives are extremely limited. The road standard is bad. Railways are missing and bus links are bad. Driving on the road between Lycksele and Umeå is in many places like riding on a narrow washboard. This route is still a European road and should be of higher quality. In Västerbotten's hinterland there are many examples of infrastructure that have poor standards. I met a man who had driven from Vilhelmina. On the road they were digging for broadband. He said that the surface of the roadway, where broadband had been dug, was more even than on the asphalt roadway. It says a little bit about the standard in our country. My question about access to equal infrastructure throughout the country has several points of view. A company that produces large quantities of buildings tried to be climate-smart and environmentally friendly. Next to the company's premises is an old industrial track where the switches have unfortunately been removed, so it is not possible to use them. This means that the transport must take place by lorry to a transhipment centre, where the goods are moved to rail. There is a single custom-built truck for construction buildings throughout the country, so there is a considerable increase in the number of trucks needed to transport the approximately 30 buildings produced per week. The cross-road between Hällnäs and Lycksele is not electrified and is not included in the railway plan for 2018 – 2029, so it will be a while before it becomes so. This means that the company operating the route must make use of the only diesel engine they have. By comparison, the company has 90 electric locomotives. So we are very vulnerable when it comes to this transport. Once unloading is to take place in Stockholm or Malmö, the unloading capacity is too small, so it is not possible to unload the building sheds that have been transported there by train. In conclusion, what I am trying to describe is that there is an eagerness to be climate-smart and environmentally friendly, but it does not work, which means that all transport takes place on rubber wheels. All transport on rubber wheels is currently subject to penalties. That is why my question remains: is this infrastructure on equal terms?
i-de51fac3af59e328-82	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter R ahm! I'll admit I'll be concerned when I hear the description. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm belongs to a party that for a long time failed to invest in infrastructure. When we came to power, we chose to spend 100 billion more on infrastructure. It's 164 billion for road maintenance only. Road standards have deteriorated, not least because of underinvestments when a moderate government chose to prioritise tax cuts instead of investing in infrastructure across the country. Now that we are making priorities of what is most important, we need to make them both in the city and in the country. In Västerbotten and northern Sweden, the clear priority from all political parties was to invest in Norrbotniabanan. This is where we now choose to start the construction and also intensify the investment. It is a very important project for the whole region and for the whole country. We should remember that it might already have been a good way forward, because it was included in the 2005 national plan. But then we got a moderate-led government with Fredrik Reinfeldt at the head, and then they removed Norrbotniabanan to instead continue to make investments in other parts of the country. Now the Norrbotnia Line is in place, and we have started the construction. I look forward to speeding up its construction, because both for Norrland and for the whole of Sweden it is an incredibly important investment. But, of course, we are also making efforts in other parts of the country. It is precisely in the case of smaller tracks that can be electrified and modernised for the forest industry that work is currently under way. In Malungsfors we recently reopened Västerdalsbanan. It had been closed for ten years. This means that the forest industry can now send its transports along Västerdalsbanan, along the entire Vasaloppsvägen. It is now 7,500 fewer trucks a year that travel that distance. There are 8 000 tonnes of CO2 less in emissions due to the fact that we are renovating a runway and allowing the forest industry to electrify its transport and transport forest raw materials along that route. What resources did this make possible? It was K limatklivsmoney, the same resources that the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats in the budget that they last voted for, wanted to remove. That is where you proposed a proper reduction in the amount of climate subsidies. Then we wouldn't have had this kind of rearmament. If you want to ensure that Sweden is able to make the transition in urban and rural areas, for the forest industry and for other parts of the country, you must be prepared to also allocate resources to infrastructure investments and climate policy. That's how we make this transition possible throughout the country, and this government does. There's a difference now, and this is where it happens.
i-de51fac3af59e328-91	Madam President, I would like Prior to 2005, there was an investment in Norrbotniabanan which was equivalent to one mile, and it was between Umeå and Dåvamyran. It is not a railway venture that I think you can be proud of, but I am pleased that the project of Norrbotniabanan has been resumed, because it is important for the whole of Sweden's infrastructure. But let me return to my question, which is really about equal infrastructure throughout the country. An impact assessment should have been carried out before starting with penal taxation on everything called rubber wheels and road traffic. If there are no other options available, there will be criminal taxation. For example, public co-financing of passenger traffic takes place on the cross-road that runs between Umeå and Lycksele. Only one third of it is electrified, so diesel locomotives must be used. It is once again a very sensitive route. However, negotiations are now under way to end co-financing when parallel infrastructure modes cannot be financed, i.e. both trains and buses. It makes me a little perplexed. What do you think here? The trains that are procured and operated this route are not adapted to winter traffic, and in Västerbotten we have winter. We have quite a lot of winter and quite a lot of snow and cold, which means that the train does not go, because it does not like winter and snow. Then it'll be a bus instead. If we are to tax the traffic on rubber wheels, we will have a very tricky situation. I will therefore come back to my question about equal infrastructure throughout the country. We don't have a subway in Västerbotten, and we have very few trains. In my municipality of Lycksele, local traffic has even been shut down, because they did not think it was worth investing in local traffic. This means that very many people in Västerbotten and Västerbotten's hinterland are dependent on cars, and car traffic is subject to penalties. It is not right to have the same conditions throughout the country in terms of infrastructure.
i-de51fac3af59e328-96	Madam President, I would like Thank you Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm! No, there's no subway in Västerbotten. There is not at home in Växjö either, from which I come, or in Kosta with 800 inhabitants, where I have grown up. I'm well acquainted with what it means to use the car. It's very important. That's why we make sure that we who need the car can also make our climate effort through the reduction obligation, so that we increase the biofuel mix in our cars – then the car sector's emissions are reduced – or by speeding up electrification, expanding charging infrastructure and ensuring that we slowly get more electric cars. This is the change that is taking place in the transport sector. Here, the Moderates make a different choice. It is now proposed to reduce the tax on petrol by SEK 1. This is done in a situation where Greta Thunberg and hundreds of thousands of young people around the world protest and demonstrate that they are worried about their future. The other day, 11 000 scientists wrote a call for us to approach an acute climate crisis. Then the Moderates come forward and propose a reduction in petrol tax with 1 crown and a reduction in the climate allowance. The Moderates say no to K Limatklivsmoney which can make it possible to invest in electrification of railway in sparsely populated areas like Västerdalsbanan. The credibility thing is, however, quite important in delivering political messages. In this case, the Moderates clearly have concerns about trying to claim that they are responsible for a conversion and a climate commitment while systematically reducing the climate budget and also wanting to reduce the tax on petrol by 1 krona. It's called populism, but it's not taking responsibility! When it comes to Västerbotten, we are making efforts for the flight after Nextchet's bankruptcy. It is a question of strengthening support for roads. It is, of course, about increased road maintenance and railway maintenance and electrification, but the most important priority that politicians in the region have told the government that we should invest in was Norrbotniabanan. Now the construction is under way. Now we even have a January agreement where we say it will intensify, because it is important not only for Västerbotten but for the whole of Norrland and the whole of Sweden. Yesterday I was at Logistikdag Norr and met in Luleå representatives of the business community throughout the region. They were road hauliers, freight transporters and regional representatives. The turnout behind Norrbotniabanan was very strong. And the joy that the government has now made sure that the construction is underway after the break that happened when the Moderates had the government power was also very great. Let's keep intensifying. However, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question about what Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm calls criminal taxation on roads. We just had an interpellation debate on cabotage and professional transport. Today we have a system where the only people who pay for our roads are Swedish hauliers. Through the euro vignette, which is soon to be phased out, foreign hauliers do not have to pay. Therefore, we have had a discussion about road wear tax or various forms of charges for foreign hauliers and road hauliers to pay when they drive on Swedish roads. The good haulage companies in Västerbotten and Norrbotten are now faced with unsyst competition when they have to pay while other road hauliers do not. The Moderates have been stubbornly opposed to the mere idea of finding another type of taxation. Would it not be more reasonable to level out the conditions, so that haulage companies in Västerbotten's hinterland do not suffer unsyst competition from foreign hauliers and we get a level playing field? When Swedish road hauliers drive abroad, they actually pay fees on German or French roads. That is why my question goes back: would it not be reasonable to have a good and level playing field there too?
i-de51fac3af59e328-103	Madam President, I would like No one should doubt that the Social Democratic Government is investing in infrastructure throughout the country. That is what the Minister for Infrastructure says in his response to me. They invest SEK 230 billion in high-speed trains. It's in the January agreement. This investment in high-speed trains will not take place in the northern part of Sweden. I am impressed, and I think it sounds great when the Government describes all the major investments made on the infrastructure that exists. It's great that we're trying to switch to more electric cars, but when the availability of charging poles is so bad I find it very difficult to motivate my voters around my home country to invest in buying an electric car. It is not optimal to stay still for an hour and wait to charge your car to get home. Once again, the spirit of my interpellation is that we should look to the whole country when we invest in infrastructure and not penalise certain parts of the country in order to be able to invest in other parts of the country, as is being done today when you tax everything that goes on rubber wheels.
i-de51fac3af59e328-106	Madam President and Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm! I note that I did not receive an answer to the question of the road user tax. It is easy to talk a little generally about criminal taxation on rubber wheels. But seriously, what we are talking about is how to cope with the transformation of transport systems. Is it reasonable to have unfair conditions of competition where foreign hauliers can go on Swedish roads for free while Swedish skiers should pay? I think we need to change this. We will make joint efforts so that the transport sector can be redeployed throughout the country. We do this by making big investments to expand the electricity infrastructure. We can do that today because we have large electricity surpluses in Sweden – it is important to remember. SEK 85 billion since the energy agreement is decided investments in renewable energy. This means that today we have so much electricity surplus that it would be far enough to electrify the entire transport sector. That's why we are now slowly but surely– no, not slowly but surely, but rather quickly– expanding the electricity infrastructure throughout the country and ensuring that we can get charging poles. It is also an exciting development with electric roads for heavier vehicles. Then we can reduce the climate impact of road transport while building more rail and, not least, developing shipping. That is what modernisation and climate change look like. It will then be difficult to understand that the Moderates, a party that has previously been close to the business community and been able to see the conditions for modernising and thus creating new export earnings – now instead say: Lower the petrol tax by 1 crown, and reduce the climate subsidies! It won't hold. It takes a little courage and responsibility for the future direction of Sweden. We can cope with climate change throughout the country, both in Västerbotten's inland and at my home in Småland.
i-de51fac3af59e328-110	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that professional drivers are given a legally sound assessment of their higher competences. Safe drivers are an important part of the work to achieve the zero vision. Therefore, there are common minimum requirements for the medical fitness of drivers in the EU driving licence directive. The medical requirements for driving licences for epilepsy are higher for professional drivers than for other drivers. In an infringement case against Sweden, the European Commission has made it clear that the minimum medical conditions for driving licences should be met. For heavy ratings, the directive requires ten years of freedom of attack without medication. For drivers with good prognosis this time can be shortened. The assessment is made in the individual cases by the Swedish Transport Agency. In the context of the EU's work on the driving licence directive, medical requirements are constantly being reviewed in order to be updated in line with medical developments. Sweden is active in this work. Of course, I will follow the developments.
i-de51fac3af59e328-113	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! First of all, I would like to point out that, of course, I agree with the Government in stating that we should have safe drivers on the road. There's nothing else to talk about. I myself have been active in the industry for many years – I am a trained driver – to make sure they are safe on the road. But what we're talking about are people who have previously had a driver's license on a waiver. Then came the change to the driving licence directive, which meant that the rights of these people were removed overnight. Let me make this clear a little bit. We're not talking about epileptic seizures where you lose consciousness. The people we're talking about have the milder version of epilepsy, which you can have as a child, when you're eight nine years old. They have then medication prevention for this up to adulthood. The new requirement removed the possibility for these people to retain their driving licence. I'm not a doctor. I'm an engineer at the bottom, so screw and nut are my home field. But what I've been taught is that the people we're talking about have a milder version of epilepsy. They regularly carry out medical checks, and they take medication. So they have a lower risk of developing an attack than the rest of us who are considered healthy. The consideration of these people has somehow disappeared when they overnight lose the opportunity to provide for themselves. I think we are a little square in the way we deal with this. This applies not only to those who have this type of medical restriction, but also to those with so-called visual field limitations. There are drivers with a damaged eye and a fully healthy eye who have had their driver's license for 30 to 40 years. It's the same thing there. They, too, are affected by this view and, overnight, are no longer allowed to practice the profession they have been doing for many years. They have done this without harming anyone, and it has been a spotless drive. It's important to remember. So it is a driver who drives discreetly for many years. The driver drives maybe 7 000 km a year – that's six times more than the normal motorist performs – and is still not a danger in traffic. This proves that the good forecast referred to in the legislation is fulfilled. I talk a lot to the affected drivers. It is clear that this is an extremely difficult situation for them. There is a part of the legislation that actually allows these drivers to retain their qualifications. However, the Swedish driving licence authority has not taken this into account. It is not even clear that there is an opportunity to go that way, which is worrying. My question to the Government is given: how do we solve this? I know that Tomas Eneroth has also been contacted on this matter by others.
i-de51fac3af59e328-120	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! It is true that I have been contacted on this issue, and I have also debated and discussed the issue of visual field limitations on several occasions in this House in the past. It is a difficult conflict of objectives – we should always recognise this – with, on the one hand, understanding of those who have limitations in their professional activities, because it is a matter of no longer being a professional driver, and, on the other hand, tightening up and tightening up the rules to increase safety on our roads. With regard to epilepsy, we should remember that it was even an infringement case against Sweden, where the EU pointed out that we need to be clear about the implementation of the new rules, which is about stricter medical requirements: freedom of attack for ten years. That's why I think a lot of people can understand. On our roads commercial road users and drivers drive vehicles weighing 60 tonnes. It could be dangerous goods. Of course, it is incredibly important that there are high standards of safety. When you get your case tried, the process has to be legal. Thomas Morell asks if it is a legal test. Yes, I have to judge that it is. Here you have the opportunity to examine your case at the Swedish Transport Agency. If you are not satisfied, you can then consider it in the administrative court. That's the order we have. I think it is important that we follow both legislation, application and medical developments in order to see what changes can take place in the future. However, we cannot compromise either on road safety or on our common European acquis. We have to follow that. That is why it is important to be clear: there are minimum rules to which we have to relate. There is a mission for the Swedish Transport Agency to implement the rules that exist regarding epilepsy, and it is ten years' freedom of attack that is the basic requirement. There is the possibility of an exemption, and it has also existed in the past. There's an opportunity to overdo it. I myself will follow this closely, because this is an issue that is, of course, important to many individuals. At the same time, it is very important that we in Sweden maintain and ensure safety on our roads. That is the starting point for the regulation that we now have throughout the European Union.
i-de51fac3af59e328-127	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! There is no conflict between us when we talk about road safety, because it is very important that we have drivers on the road who are equipped to drive these heavy vehicles. I myself have investigated over 300 fatal accidents during my time at the traffic police, so I know what the consequences are when things get wrong out there. So there is no conflict between us. The problem is that for 20, 30 or perhaps 40 years these people have done their job with great success. Some of them have even been truckers and driven the Middle East. I can understand if you set a limit when the legislation is tightened up and say that now we are not adding more exemptions than we have had in the past. But as long as the medical conditions remain in the same condition as they have been over the years, you could allow these people to continue driving. If the situation then becomes different purely medically, I also understand that an action is being taken on the driving licence. At the same time, however, drivers who clearly do not have the relevant training are at risk when they are seen on the market at the same time. On the Internet today it is possible to buy a driving licence, YKB, i.e. a driver's card. You can buy registration certificates and registration plates for cars. You're on the road and you're driving, and there's really no control at all. The Swedish police are having a very difficult time controlling these documents. One way for the police to see at a first check whether it is a genuine driving license or not is to drop it into the table, because you hear the difference on the plastic when it hits the table surface. But it is still a rather blunt instrument. In this way we get people on the road who do not have relevant education. We don't even know if they have conditions purely medical to drive. We have no idea if they have any diagnosis of epilepsy or diabetes, if the vision requirements are met and so on. These people we let go free out there, because we don't have enough controls. At the same time, measures are being taken for people who have proved to be good professionals for many years. If we talk about road safety, it is doubtful if we allow them at one point to drive which is demonstrably not properly trained or even meets the medical requirements – we know nothing about that, because they have false documents – in order to withdraw the competence of people who have been good professionals for many years. This is a relationship that's not right. I received the email where the EU's Press Commissioner in Sweden was concerned that the debate that has been blackwashing the EU and, as it were, shift responsibility to the EU and its decisions down there. Yes, there is a decision coming from below, but the Swedish authorities have not read the full text. It is quite obvious, and that is where we have a concern.
i-de51fac3af59e328-136	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! It is clear that neither Thomas Morell nor I are doctors, and this means that we should be careful about assessing what is the right medical requirement. Those assessments must be made by others. Nor can we find ourselves in a situation where we risk road safety if professional drivers with obvious risks of relapse are on their way. I understand that we share the view that road safety must be given priority. However, it is dangerous to argue that there is cheating with professional driving licences. It certainly does, but it cannot be an argument for us not ensuring that we have good order in other areas. There is now extensive work both on the driving licence directive and here in Sweden on the design of driving licences to make them digital and ensure that they cannot be falsified. I have also told you in previous debates about increased checks on the road, which I think is important, all this in the sense of creating order and order in professional traffic. It is important to do this, but it is equally important to ensure that we have a system in which we comply with the requirements that exist within the European Union. There was an infringement case against Sweden with regard to the medical requirements, with the argument for the tougher trial that is now taking place with a demand for ten years of freedom of attack. On the other hand, you can then, if you wish, appeal the case, which then goes to the administrative court. That is the order we have in Sweden. I will follow that trend in the future. There are medical committees that follow medical developments and see if there are reasons to make improvements or changes in the assessments to be made. However, we cannot find ourselves in a situation where we would rather blur on road safety. There are heavy vehicles on our roads, and professional traffic has a particular responsibility in this.
i-JMKh3GEadzQq4gEFenR6dr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Tomas Eneroth. No, we're not going to abandon any medical requirements and principles. It is extremely important that we have drivers who are competent to be on the road. As I said before, I am not a doctor and I have no medical education whatsoever. I can put a patch on a wound; that's about the level I'm handling. But then, on the other hand, you have to listen to those who have the knowledge. If we are talking about the mild version of epilepsy that is current here, these drivers are actually less risky on the road. Since they are on constant controls and have a preventive medication, they are less likely to suffer the very epileptic seizure that is so dangerous because it removes consciousness. There is another concern in this, and that is that this medicine is used to treat other, more physical injuries. If you get a blow to the head so that the head cracks and the brain is put away, you obviously use this medicine – with the consequence that the driver's license is drawn even though the patient does not have epilepsy. In conclusion, I would like to say that when the Government states that it is important that we have safer drivers on the road, I am the first to agree with that. But then we must also get rid of those drivers who travel with false documents, who do not meet the standards and do not meet the minimum requirements that actually exist. With the drivers who are the basis of my question, Peter, Patrick and Rolf and all the other drivers affected, I would leave without worry every day of the week. They are very good professionals and deserve a better fate than what they have suffered as a result of square government decisions.
i-de51fac3af59e328-144	Madam President, I would like I owe you an answer to the question why derogations could not be made retroactively. The answer is that the EU directive also regulates so-called grandfather rights. This means that previous rights cannot be retained. Instead, it is new legislation and new rules that apply to everyone, and that is what makes it a stricter assessment. The starting point is that we want to increase road safety throughout the EU and not end up in a situation where a 60-tonne vehicle is being driven by someone who can actually be completely lost for a period of time. This must then never be taken as an argument that we get drivers who drive without permission, drive illegally or have other flaws that prevent them from driving safely. That is one of the reasons why we are tightening up controls on the road, that we are stepping up efforts and that we have even set up an investigation into tighter and more effective checks on professional traffic. I would like to see a comprehensive labour inspection covering both heavy goods transport, including bus transport, and the taxi industry. We will have better order in professional traffic and increased controls on the road, but also increased opportunities for register checks and digital controls. It is about ensuring that it is better and well trained drivers, that the work environment is good and that driving and rest time rules are followed. There should also be opportunities for health surveillance, as many good employers provide, so that the situation is followed up. It's the kind of order we're supposed to have on our roads. That's how it's supposed to work. Then the transport industry will also become more attractive to work in. The transport industry is needed, I think Thomas Morell and I agree on that.
i-de51fac3af59e328-148	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me how I and the government intend to act to get China to respect the rules of international trade. I would like to begin by agreeing with Mr Rothenberg's description that world trade is being challenged. As the government stated in its letter 2018/ 19:18 The work on issues related to China also challenges China's trading system. For example, there is significant state interference in the Chinese economy. Respect for the multilateral trading system in the WTO is fundamental to the EU's, and hence Sweden's, trade policy. At the same time, however, the WTO regulates far from anything that can affect international trade and competition. The government therefore supports the EU's efforts to modernise the WTO. This requires the involvement of all WTO members, and in particular China, in the process. The government will therefore be the driving force for the EU to involve China in the reform of the WTO. In addition to this, the Government is working continuously, within the framework of the EU's Market Access Strategy, to identify and solve barriers to trade for Swedish companies, including in China. The government also supports the EU's active, in the framework of the regular WTO committee work, ongoing monitoring of key trading partners', and in particular China's, compliance with the rules and recourse to WTO dispute settlement when called for. In order for this work to work, it is crucial to find a solution with regard to the WTO Appellate Body. Here too, dialogue with China is important.
i-de51fac3af59e328-152	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. China is in many ways a new player, while it may be the world's oldest trading player. That is why the outside world has so much thought about what is happening when the world's largest country, which is also the world's largest non-democracy, is now beginning to show an activity on the world stage for trade. You don't really know how to behave, because this is a big player who doesn't follow the rules in all contexts. That is where world trade is being challenged, and we have not seen this in very many years. We have seen the expression of isolationism and protectionism, not least in the 1930s when the United States joined. We have seen trade wars, most of which have been devastating. Unlike what the President of the United States claims, a trade war cannot be won; there are only losers. That is why there is the World Trade Organisation, the WTO – to establish a common ground for its functioning in the global market. China is today the world's largest country in terms of population, and it is the world's third largest economy. Many people forget that Europe is the world's largest economy – and will be, even after Brexit has been completed, in a few decades' time. In the near future, it will further advance its positions, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that China also becomes a reliable player in international trade contexts. The government has recently presented a letter, the one known as the China Strategy, which deals with Sweden's relations – mainly trade relations – with China. As the government notes in its work on issues relating to China, it became a member of the WTO 18 years ago, but there are still obvious shortcomings in its application of the acquis. After 18 years, China must nevertheless be regarded as of age on the international trade scene. This applies not least to issues of transparency. The strategy believes that it is important for the multilateral world trading system, that is, the WTO, to be modernised and China to respect this. However, it is important that China respects the WTO acquis before it joins in reforming the same. Here, I think there is reason to discuss the modernisation of the WTO that is being talked about. The WTO has established regulations, and it is not difficult to follow them if you want to. However, it is easy to deviate from them if you want to, and the reprisals become quite small. So it costs a little bit to make a lot of trouble. I would like to ask the Minister for Trade: what is the Minister's primary view of changing the WTO acquis so that China can become a full and regulatory player in the trading system?
i-3T4TpWG65ZWsoiXjx496SV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg. We have both mentioned the letter from the government called Work on issues relating to China. It shows how the government intends to work both within the EU and for Sweden in terms of trade policy towards China. The government intends, of course, to promote free and fair trade, and the rule-based trading system – based on the WTO – is, as Mr Rothenberg says, a fundamental starting point. However, we also need to look at the reform of the WTO. As Mr Rothenberg points out, China's compliance with the WTO acquis is of particular importance for maintaining confidence in the global trading system. That is also why the said letter specifically points out that we must involve China in the WTO work. China's lack of transparency, in particular as regards the notification of its subsidies under the WTO Subsidies Agreement, has been highlighted by the EU on several occasions. The WTO Secretariat has also noted shortcomings in China's notifications of domestic agricultural aid and state trading companies. In the context of the ongoing modernisation work, the EU has therefore, in its input into the WTO, put forward a number of proposals on how to strengthen transparency in the WTO. I would also like to mention China's use of export credit instruments, which is an important part of international trade and of companies' competitive opportunities. It has also been identified as an area where China's compliance with the WTO acquis may be called into question. Here, Sweden and the EU have been working for a long time to get China involved in the International Working Group on Export Credits. I would also like to mention another area in which China's WTO compliance is being called into question by the EU. It is a question of forced technology transfer. The government has supported the EU's accession to the dispute currently being waged by the United States against China regarding violations of the WTO's so-called TRIPS agreement, i.e. the WTO agreement on intellectual property. Furthermore, the EU has been successful on its own in conducting a number of WTO disputes against China on issues relating to China's export restrictions on certain metals, anti-dumping and so on. In some of the disputes, agreement has been reached with China before the cases have been settled. Although the number of disputes is small, the WTO dispute settlement mechanisms have functioned in some parts – but far from fully. There is still much to be done in this area. I agree that the government must be a driving force in the discussions on how to reform the WTO system for special and differential treatment of developing countries. It is, of course, an important part of the reform and important in order to better reflect the degree of development and needs of different countries within the global trading system. I believe that Mr Rothenberg knows that the government recently financed a study on how to reform the WTO system of special and differential treatment. The conclusion is that a flexible approach is needed to better balance rights and obligations. Although the study is not specifically concerned with China, it goes without saying that China's obligations in the WTO system are an important part of this discussion. In conclusion, it can be said that it goes without saying that there are many elements of China's economic policy that are simply not yet regulated by either the WTO or any other agreement that the EU has with China. It is therefore important that we push the European Union to complete, for example, an investment agreement with China, but also to include China in the reform of the WTO that is so urgently needed.
i-de51fac3af59e328-167	Madam President, I would like China is a very complex country. It is difficult to learn how this country works, for it has been the end for so long. It has been separated from the western part of the world in particular. The whole world is now learning how China thinks. About the same thing happens in China – you learn how the rest of the world thinks. China is a country with very large muscles. It has economic muscles. We saw this not least during the financial crisis – during the global property crisis – when credits flowed out of China to countries in the West and in the Third World that were hit very hard after the Lehman crash. This is a means of power. It is a means of power that China can use to hold credits with other countries. At the same time, it is also a vulnerability for China – you want the money back, but it may not always be the case that you get the money back. It may be that the borrowers can put pressure on China. However, this shows some of China's enormous power. They also have political ambitions, and for them trade is a tool. We can take China's relationship with Taiwan as an example. This relationship is often very sensitive. It is often sensitive to debate in parliaments, regardless of which country's parliament it is. This is a country that is the other China. It is a country that has lived under constant threat since 1949. Taiwan has lived for many years under the threat of being attacked by China. Today, few Taiwanese representatives believe that Taiwan will be attacked militarily, but what is the big threat today is to be bought in economically. We see this in countries other than Taiwan. We see in Sweden and in European countries, especially in southern Europe, that they buy themselves into a country with financial means and thus use ownership as a means of power. This is part of a long-term Chinese strategy to be the world's leading political, military, economic and cultural power by 2049. That is what we need to deal with when we talk about the WTO and when we talk about whether or not to modernise the WTO. I would argue that the WTO rules will work if they are complied with. But no matter how we twist and reverse the rules of the WTO, it does not matter much unless there is a good will to comply with the rules. At the last WTO ministerial meetings, there have been three countries that have always been opposed. It's the three largest in the world. The first is the United States, which more or less caused the meeting in Buenos Aires in 2017 to fail. The second is India, which more or less caused the meeting in Bali in 2013 to fail. This concerns the food aspect. The third is China, which, by simply saying no, is blocking a great deal of what is happening. I do not believe that the WTO needs to be modernised. On the other hand, some WTO countries need to be modernised in order to learn to respect things.
i-de51fac3af59e328-179	Madam President, I would like We agree that China's development presents both opportunities and challenges, not least for Sweden. The Government's ambition, which is also expressed in the letter that we have mentioned a few times here, is to seize the opportunities that China's development offers but also to address the challenges that we are discussing here today and that China is facing. This is particularly true in the area of trade policy. China's strong economic development and China's accession to the WTO have, of course, provided great opportunities for Swedish companies that have traded with China. When China joined the WTO in 2001, it took on commitments which at that time appeared to be more ambitious than those of countries at similar levels of development. At the same time, China's growth since 2001 has meant that China is now the world's largest economy measured in purchasing power parity. This means that we should make more demands on China to take greater responsibility in the world trading system – I fully agree with that. This also means that China should take on additional commitments. China chose to join the so-called Information Technology Agreement, ITA 2, which provides better market access for IT goods. It was very welcome that China joined there, just as it was welcome that China recently made a revised bid to enter into the WTO Procurement Agreement, the so-called Government Procurement Agreement or GPA. But this is far from being enough. The latest trade policy review of China, carried out by the WTO Secretariat last year, revealed that there is still a great deal of state interference in China's economy. We have reason to believe that this influence can lead to significant distortions and that it is also increasing. The China Chamber of Commerce recently warned that the state-owned and state-controlled sector is growing at the expense of the private sector, including in terms of access to capital. Indeed, this could also have negative consequences for China's own development. It is therefore important that, in its trade policy discussion with China, the EU is constantly vigilant about this development. In this context, it is also welcome that the EU is working with Japan and the US to explore the rules that can be developed for a level playing field for state-owned and private companies in trade policy. When state-owned companies become major players in world markets, a better regulatory framework is needed. It is no secret that there are other countries that believe that we should act completely outside the WTO framework to deal with China's actions through various pressures. However, the Swedish Government and myself do not believe that this is a suitable or accessible way either for Sweden or for the EU. It is also clear from the China letter that we should, of course, always start from Swedish and EU common interests and values in our dealings with China, but that does not mean that we must be guided by China or the interests of other countries. This is extremely important. A multilateral, rule-based trading system, including the shortcomings and limitations that always exist in this type of large system, continues to be in Sweden's interest and to be the cornerstone of our trade policy. We shall continue our work, not only in order for China to live up to its WTO commitments, but also in order for China to take on new commitments, while safeguarding and developing our common rule-based trading system. I very much look forward to the next ministerial conference in spring 2020 and to the success of the WTO acquis.
i-de51fac3af59e328-190	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. This is an issue that does not give the biggest headlines on the front pages of the newspapers, and that is not what people in common are thinking about in everyday life. But it affects all people's daily lives indirectly, more or less noticeably. Having an orderly world trade is a prerequisite for eliminating many other conflicts, for most military conflicts arise when there is an imbalance, when some parties perceive themselves unfairly treated, and they often arise from economic disputes. It is therefore important to make it clear that we must have a common approach and comply with the rules that we have agreed. The WTO is an old organisation, and China entered it in 2001. If you come in, you'll have to relate to the reality that's on offer. The government mentioned cooperation with the US and Japan. There I think the big key is that we get America back on track. The United States must return to the family of global world trade and, together with the European Union, act as the second axis across the Atlantic for the benefit of the Western market economy. If the EU and the US can join forces, we will have much more opportunity to see a change in China's behaviour. Changing the rules of the WTO is a bit like moving the victim of the bully, i.e. adapting to those who do not comply with the rules. China needs to know that wrongs do not pay off, and there the EU and Sweden have a major role to play.
i-de51fac3af59e328-195	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg. As Mr Rothenberg says, we face major political challenges in a global perspective, not least in the area of trade policy, which also affects other areas. I totally agree with that. China's actions contribute to these challenges. China's size also means that China must be part of the solution. We must continue to interact with China in areas where we have a mutual interest, not least in economics and trade, of course. We must continue to make demands on China in terms of market access and the rule-based multilateral world order, including the multilateral trade regime. Sweden should both defend free trade and stand up for fair conditions, of course also in dialogue with such an important trading partner as the US – I also mentioned Japan. Coordination with these countries is, of course, extremely central on the part of the European Union. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Rothenberg for the opportunity to discuss the important issue of China and the WTO, because I agree that it is not always at the top of the agenda and on the headlines. But it affects us all and is extremely important. I have no doubt that we will have reason to come back to the issue in the future.
i-de51fac3af59e328-199	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me what I and the government intend to do to eliminate the competitive disadvantage of Swedish companies vis-à-vis Chinese. China has benefited from its status as a developing country in several contexts, although it is a world leader in many sectors. In Sweden, this has been noticed, among other things, when China has been able to send certain types of postal items to Sweden in international postal cooperation at subsidised prices within the framework of the terminal dues system. Sweden has been working for a long time to ensure that the reform of the terminal charging system will proceed as quickly as possible, including reducing distortions of competition and reducing the benefits for postal items from, for example, China. I and the government therefore welcome the fact that Sweden, together with the other member states of the UPU during the extraordinary congress in September 2019 in Geneva, unanimously decided on a reform of the terminal dues system. The EU regularly complains about a lack of market access in China and that state interference in its economy distorts competition. EU work needs to be further developed in order to strengthen European competitiveness. The government will be the driving force for the EU to conduct ambitious negotiations that facilitate trade and secure Swedish companies' market access and a level playing field. As can be seen from the Government's letter( 2019/ 20:18) on the work on issues related to China, the Government in the bilateral dialogue with China will continue to highlight the barriers to trade that Swedish companies face in China. The letter states that shortcomings such as intellectual property infringements, technology transfer and WTO incompatible state subsidies need to be addressed. The government is also a driving force for the EU to involve China in the reform of the WTO. China's use of special and differential treatment in the WTO needs to be adapted to its level of development. In the context of the WTO reform, it is also important, inter alia, to follow up the Joint Declaration of the last EU-China Summit in April 2019, which stated, inter alia, that both parties expressed an objective to strengthen the international regulatory framework for industrial subsidies.
i-de51fac3af59e328-205	Madam President, I would like From our previous interpellation debate, there will now be a soft P3 transition to a little more robust and concrete, because these are problems that Swedish companies like many other countries' companies experience. For more than a decade, Sweden has a unique bilateral cooperation agreement with China in corporate social responsibility or what we call Corporate Social Responsibility, abbreviated CSR. It serves as a platform for discussing norms in the areas of human rights, working conditions and corruption from a business perspective. CSR cooperation aims to ensure the position of Swedish companies. It provides competitive advantages and has created good contacts with the Chinese administration. The Swedish CSR Centre in Beijing will ensure that Swedish companies continue to receive support and advice on these issues. But, because there is always one but, at the same time, it is reported that when Swedish e-traders send packages – it may be packages that are between one and two kilos heavy – freight is considerably more expensive than if a Chinese e-trader sends corresponding packages to Sweden. This is due to the UN package subsidies. The UN Post Office UPU, as mentioned by the Government, will help certain countries in their development, including China, where e-traders are offered subsidised shipping. But the subsidy has grown into an increasing threat to Swedish e-commerce companies, when China receives strong subsidies, even though it is one of the world's most competitive e-commerce nations. It's like feeding you already full. In this context, the country is actually ranked in the same league as countries like Cuba and Gabon, and Sweden's e-commerce with Cuba and Gabon is limited. As competition in e-commerce is very strong and the margins are very limited, it is remarkable that Swedish e-traders are exposed to distorted competition with China on a daily basis. I thank the Minister for the answer to this question. But somewhere it has to land in more robust action to correct these problems. What will Swedish companies look forward to in concrete terms? How is the dialogue with the Swedish Chamber of Commerce in Beijing and Shanghai? The China strategy that we discussed in the previous interpellation debate highlights many issues, and this is an example of an issue that can land in the trade policy perspective. Sweden's China strategy must be taken a step further. There must be an action plan. We have seen that China does not respect the rules of the World Trade Organisation and that there are obvious abuses in bilateral relations between the countries. A trade plan and action plan are needed. Is an action plan to follow up China's strategy in the pipeline?
i-de51fac3af59e328-214	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, the government is actively working to eliminate the competitive disadvantages that I agree that Swedish traders are affected by. In view of the specific and concrete issue of the previous rules of the World Postal Association on terminal charges, we welcome the fact that an agreement has been reached on the new system of terminal charges. Let me return to Mr Rothenberg's question as to what the government is doing to eliminate competitive disadvantages that Swedish companies have against Chinese. The question presupposes that Swedish companies have competitive disadvantages, and this is, of course, true in terms of access to the Chinese market. Restrictions on market access are a real problem for Swedish companies that want to compete in the Chinese market. However, there is much to suggest that our open business climate also strengthens the competitiveness of Swedish companies. We are not afraid of competition, we are innovative and we are attractive. As shown by the export strategy, which is being updated, the competitiveness of Swedish companies has largely to do with the business environment in Sweden and that we have been open to globalisation, which is a strength for Swedish business. However, the competitiveness of individual companies depends on their success in global value chains. Goods and services are increasingly produced in several countries and regions, and each country and region naturally contributes to this value chain. Let us remind ourselves that, in the long run, our open business environment gives Swedish companies competitive advantages in relation to companies in markets where imports and foreign investments and services are not available in the same way. I see brightly on the ability of Swedish companies to compete globally. At the same time, I am aware, when we are discussing China's action, that it can reduce the support for free trade globally. What the government does above all is to support the work of the EU. The EU must be a concerted force, which is why it is important to keep Europe together and the EU's work in order to achieve greater competitiveness neutrality between European and Chinese companies. Mr Rothenberg asks about the Chinese letter and what is the next step. An important part is that we acquire more competence in China. This applies, of course, not only to the government, but to all the municipalities and regions of the country. In procurement, it is important to have this competence in order to take the next step and find the balance so that in future we and our trading partner China have the same opportunities, starting points and conditions of competition. It is a journey to get there, and here Europe is an important force. Work in the EU is therefore very important for Sweden. Cooperation in areas such as export credits, competition law, state aid and others were discussed at the last EU-China Summit. This is precisely aimed at moving forward on the fundamental issues.
i-de51fac3af59e328-224	Madam President, I would like Let me put this in perspective and look a little at what China is in relation to Sweden. Sweden was the first Western country to recognise China in 1950 and establish diplomatic relations. It should give Sweden a gold star in the Chinese book. China is today Sweden's largest trading partner in Asia, and it is the eighth largest trading partner measured in trade in goods. There are around 10 000 Swedish companies trading with China, and 600 Swedish companies are established in China – many for a long time. It is important to have a presence in China, to be in place. Anyone who has ever worked with trade knows that there is a big difference between sending an email and sitting face to face and discussing. The latter builds trust. Trade is basically a very civilised way of getting along. You can't trade if you're rude and rude. You can't agree if you don't show the slightest will. That is also why trade is an important tool for resolving other conflicts. Trade is the universal language of the world no matter what other language you speak, because you always understand that if you give something you get something back. But if you don't get anything back, you talk and you trade with someone else. It is therefore important that Swedish companies are present in China. Today, Chinese companies are also establishing themselves quite strongly in Sweden. It is a dynamic and rapidly growing market. At the same time, foreign companies have not been given as much opportunity to operate in China as many Chinese companies have in Sweden. China has been able to benefit from its status as a developing country in many contexts – although it is a world leader in many sectors. E-commerce is the trade of the future, and much has been transferred from shops to postal terminals. This has a major impact on the global environment. It is also a question of security of supply. The customers who order online want their delivery as fast as if they had gone downtown and shopped in stores, and many aircraft are needed to provide this security of supply. Therefore, order is needed in e-commerce. Compliance is the key. It is good that the government is open to trade and in its approach to other countries. But transparency must be mutual, and it must be a level playing field for both parties. I assume that Sweden through the government in its contacts with the Chinese regime and through Business Sweden with the corresponding body in China is very clear that the chafing wounds that exist between Sweden and China must be removed. After all, pharmaceuticals have a thousand-year tradition of dealing with China.
i-de51fac3af59e328-230	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that trade is a great platform for dialogue, also in a broader perspective. We must constantly promote an open trade dialogue to bring about other movements in values and other policy areas. How does the government work, and what do we do to achieve a level playing field for our companies in trade with China? Both Sweden and the EU have a clear position on the terms of Swedish and European companies' trade with China. In the dialogue with China, like the EU, we are constantly addressing the importance of improved market access. I will come back to that because market access is crucial. The fact that China also has to deal with its overcapacity in steel production has been mentioned by the EU as an example of the need to have a level playing field. The EU and China have been negotiating an investment agreement since 2013, and this calls for increased market access to the Chinese market. However, it is not just about market access, but transparency and sustainable development are also important issues in these negotiations. Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR, is a fundamental green thread for the Swedish government's priorities in trade policy. It is clear from the letter concerning China that CSR remains an important area of cooperation with China. Just as Mr Rothenberg mentioned, the Swedish Embassy in Beijing has had a so-called CSR centre since 2010 for a number of years. To date, this centre has trained more than 1 000 Chinese officials and business representatives on sustainability issues. This is a way of using trade to transfer the increased awareness and interest of CRS to companies and authorities in China. I believe, however, that the most important thing is that our companies are there. We have 600 Swedish companies in place that operate with a high degree of sustainability focus in a broad perspective in their operations in China. There has been a strong increase in the interest of Chinese companies and public authorities in terms of sustainability. We see that this will certainly benefit Swedish companies that want to do business with China. Among other things, it will be easier for us to make clear demands on Chinese suppliers and subcontractors. We should also remember consumers. The final consumer has an increasing focus on health and safety, and this opens up new opportunities for Swedish companies in China. In conclusion, sustainability and trade are something that must go hand in hand. Trade and trade dialogue and the requirements of our trade dialogue are crucial for success. Of course, we should not blunder down on the equal rights of Swedish companies. We operate strongly through the European Union in this regard.
i-de51fac3af59e328-236	Madam President, I would like Since the gallery is being filled up, it might be useful to sum up what we are discussing here. We are discussing the distorted competition that exists in the field of e-commerce between Swedish companies and Chinese companies, where Chinese companies have clear competitive advantages when it comes to sending packages of goods of one to two kilos from China to Sweden. One should never say as an opposition politician that one is satisfied with the Minister's response, but I welcome the ambition of the Government to correct this. I believe, however, that more is needed than having an interpellation debate and discussing the issues. The China strategy that the government has now presented to Parliament needs to be transformed into an action plan. This plan needs to be more detailed than many other political documents, for there are many pockets where China makes use of other possibilities than many regulatory systems allow. There are conditions for dealing with this, but I think it must be done internationally, by making changes to the subsidies that China is bizarrely using via the UN Post Office UPU. It requires compliance with the rules we have. It's all connected. The package that lands in our mailbox at home after an online order is linked to the functioning of the WTO's regulatory framework. In the end, it is we and you who pay for when a country does not follow the rules. I will follow this question. I assume the government will handle it.
i-de51fac3af59e328-241	Madam President, I would like I would really like to thank Mr Rothenberg for the opportunity to discuss this important issue of the competitive disadvantage of Swedish companies, because that is what we are talking about – I agree. As a relatively recent trade minister, I see that it is one of my main tasks to ensure that every Swedish company can take advantage of the opportunities offered by international trade and that we never stop working to create opportunities to compete on equal terms. Trade barriers in all their forms, which give Swedish companies competitive disadvantages, naturally reduce our opportunities to create jobs and growth here in Sweden. This is absolutely fundamental to me. China currently accounts for 15% of the world's total GDP and has accounted for 40% of growth over the last decade. It is therefore absolutely crucial that we pay particular attention to China in this regard, on the part of Sweden, through the WTO and in cooperation with the USA and, of course, with other countries, but also that we are constantly trying to engage in dialogue and let trade be a dialogue. And it is a dialogue, also in association with China. I look forward to further discussion. Thank you for raising the question!
