i-PGeZMPBTYbSNaSTwYXkvbP	During the plenary session on 16 May, Ulf Kristersson, the Moderates, raised a motion of censure against Minister Annika Strandhäll. The job was assisted by at least 35 members, and it was therefore postponed for the first time. The profession was postponed again on 27 May. The case will now be brought to the fore.
i-6sorwBySgRxLxMzodrZ8Q6	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates want to remove Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll through a vote of censure in the Riksdag. The background is, according to the Moderates, Strandhäll's actions in connection with the former Director General of Försäkringskassan Ann-Marie-Marie Begler having to leave her post. In parallel, a review of Annika Strandhäll is ongoing in the Constitutional Committee. The KU should be ready with its report next week, and it is very remarkable that the Moderates cannot wait for the KU's review. Instead, the Riksdag will have to take a position on Annika Strandhäll's future as Minister before KU has had time to give its views on how the government separated Ann-Marie-Marie Begler from the position at Försäkringskassan. During the last parliamentary term, the Constitutional Committee built up an approach with unanimous review reports, something that has been appreciated in all political camps and which has made the reputation of parliamentary scrutiny of the government grow. Now the Moderates choose to bypass the KU. That is very unfortunate, Mr President. Not waiting for serious treatment of the Constitutional Committee, which is Parliament's most powerful tool, must be considered unserious. As far as timing is concerned, it certainly looks like the Moderates have made their move for electoral reasons. If it were not possible to wait for the KU's review, the Moderates would have done so before the formation of the government in January for political reasons. Sweden's government is based on the fact that Parliament is the people's main representative. The government governs the kingdom, and the authorities are under the authority of the government. The Government appoints Heads of Government and has, within the framework of the rules that exist, far-reaching possibilities to separate Heads of Government from their positions when required for the good of the business. It would be unfortunate if the Riksdag were now to act in such a way that it would appear that the government's right and duty to ensure that the authorities have functioning managers is undermined. We Social Democrats also regret the fact that other parties depend on the Moderates' moves and thus risk undermining the KU's scrutiny. The Social Democrats will vote 'no' in today's vote of censure on the basis of the background I have presented.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-7	Mr President, I would like to A motion of censure is Parliament's sharpest tool and should be used with caution. Historically, therefore, censures have been rare in Swedish politics. Between 1980 and 2002, only five votes were taken, and no minister has fallen into a vote of censure. Historical experience shows that a motion of censure should be used with thrift and after careful consideration. Since 2015, the pace has accelerated, and four censure votes have taken place. In addition to the four votes, two ministers have had to resign in connection with a sufficient number of parties having expressed their willingness to vote for censure in the Riksdag. A motion of censure is a constitutional block and, as we see it, should not be a tool for general opinion formation and dissatisfaction with the current government. The motion of censure that we have here today is about whether or not the Riksdag has confidence in Minister Annika Strandhäll. For a year, the Constitutional Committee has had its review, and it is expected to be completed shortly. There are likely to be grounds for criticism of the Government's handling when the Government transferred the current Head of Authority. But the running question for the Center Party is whether that criticism is sufficiently grave for the Government to be forced to leave the government. The basic question, Mr President, is when the Riksdag believes that a government has the right to move a head of authority. The government disposes of the appointing authority and the transfer instrument in the case of heads of agencies, but that power must be handled with care and discretion, not least in order to maintain respect for the office of officials and for the competence and integrity of competent officials. However, an authority should also implement a government's jointly decided political orientation, and if a government believes that the management is not exercised adequately, a government may consider it necessary in view of the Authority's best interests to move a head of authority. This is the power that Annika Strandhäll and the government have used. She did so in a way that raises many different questions and is likely to give rise to criticism. It is also something on which the Constitutional Committee is now examining and will shortly present its conclusions. On behalf of the Center Party, we think that the decision was bad in substance. We believe that Ann-Marie-Marie Begler is a competent head of authority and would have liked to have seen her continue to have confidence as Director General of Försäkringskassan. We believe that the management, including documentation of the transfer, is inadequate and deserves criticism. In fact, Mr President, it is not one of the things on which we have a position today. The crucial question is whether this is serious enough for Parliament's confidence to be exhausted and the Government to leave the government. What level should the Riksdag lay the bar on for when a government is allowed to move a head of authority? What is the Parliament's view of the government's ability to appoint and remove heads of government? The Center Party has concluded that although Minister Strandhäll deserves criticism and the decision in substance was bad, it is important that we do not set a standard in which a government will find it difficult to move heads of government in the future. We do not want to tie up future governments, but want a government to continue to be able to decide whether it has confidence in its Heads of Government or not. The Center Party is not a government party. We will therefore, like how we did in the vote of censure on Magdalena Andersson in 2015 and on Peter Hultqvist in 2017, abstain from voting, i.e. press yellow, in today's vote.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-16	Mr President, I would like to Ordinary, honest people who go to work, pay taxes and do the right thing often do so in the belief that there is a safety net that can help them if something happens to them, such as sickness or accidents. They think that there is a social security system that can give them a decent economic life even after the accident struck. During the last parliamentary term, the Socialist Government wanted to save on this. The refugee crisis and other things cost a lot of money, and Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll commissioned the Director General of Försäkringskassan to tighten the belt. Fewer would be granted sickness benefit, and more would be insured. The Director General did as she was told, so when people came and wanted to take advantage of the welfare system that they had paid for, they were told that there was no money. Of course, many were very disappointed. Many were so disappointed that the Social Democratic Party was in danger of losing voters for the 2018 elections. Then Annika Strandhäll again got the assignment to try to solve this, and what she then chooses to do is to fire the Director General of Försäkringskassan. The purpose of this was, of course, that they wanted to blame themselves. We wanted to be able to say that we good Social Democrats have got rid of this stupid Director-General with the hard pinches, so now we can try to put things right and restore the security of the system. Mr President, I would like to Everyone knows that politics is a special industry with a lot of thieving and rapping games. But this kind of cynical power game is not even commonplace here. I know that I speak too many when I say that we are so extremely disappointed with what the Social Democracy has become. We are so extremely disappointed at the way in which the old proud Social Democracy which was involved in building up these security systems is now tearing them down and cannot even stand up for doing so, but is trying to place the blame on an official who has only done what she has been told to do. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, Stefan Löfven said that if Annika Strandhäll is forced to resign today, the hattail will dance and drink champagne. I wonder what the Prime Minister really means when he talks about hastsvans. I wonder whether he is referring to all these people whom the Social Democracy has secured and denied sickness benefit and who are angry and, of course, disappointed that the security system for which they themselves paid was not there when they so badly needed it. Is it all these people who demand redress that the Prime Minister describes as a hastsvans? If that is the case, I can say one thing that is certain, and that is that no matter how the vote today ends, these people will not drink in champagne. Anyone who thinks that is the case obviously knows nothing about how self-assured it is in their daily lives. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish social security system has been paid by the Swedish people, and it will benefit the Swedish people. The task of the Social Insurance Agency is to ensure that this happens. This must never be reduced to pawns in a Social Democratic power game. Sweden's democrats' confidence in the Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll has been exhausted for a long time, and we will vote in favour of the motion of censure today.
i-EqoYpeWxBSDeD4ubtWYT54	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have in accordance with Chapter 13. Section 4 of the form of government called for a motion of censure on Minister Annika Strandhäll. On 27 April last year, the Director General of Försäkringskassan, Ann-Marie-Marie Begler, was suddenly dismissed and transferred. The forms and reasons for this are very unclear, but apparently the government has moved Ann-Marie-Marie Begler for purely political reasons. That is what this issue is about. It is a government party that did not want to enter an electoral movement with a Director-General who did his job according to the instructions given to her by the government. It is about a government and a minister who did not want to stand up for the authority's right and duty to make independent decisions even when the political winds against the Social Democratic Government blew cheaply. This is a government which, despite repeated requests for clarification, has not been able or willing to explain its actions. A government can, of course, appoint and dismiss Directors-General. However, this must be done in accordance with the laws and constitutional principles which are the basis of our administration. It is therefore possible to transfer a Director-General to a new post if this is done by common accord. Equally naturally, in the case of serious mismanagement, a head of authority may be dismissed under current appointment. However, if this is contrary to the wishes of the Director-General, the law on public employment will naturally be brought up to date, and it will show that an immediate separation from the mission requires exceptional reasons. In the case of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler, the transfer was contrary to her will, and it was carried out immediately. The fact that this is the case must now be considered to be perfectly clear. Mr Begler asked for the particular reasons for the government's decision. The department promised to return but never did. In order to clarify the lack of consensus and make it crystal clear, Begler himself again sought the job as Director General at Försäkringskassan. So there is no doubt that the Director-General has been deposed. It does, however, refer to the reasons. Annika Strandhäll knew all this when she was called to the Parliament's Constitutional Committee to answer the committee's questions. Nevertheless, the Government stated before the KU and before the Swedish people that there had been a consensus about the transfer. Mr President, I would like to Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll has also argued that the dismissal was based on a lack of ability to cooperate. Nothing indicates that this would be correct. Neither the Minister for Social Security nor her department referred to the alleged serious lack of ability to interact with the Chairman of the Board of the Social Insurance Agency. Nor are senior managers of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency well aware of any such serious criticism of the ability to lead the agency that would justify the removal of the Director-General. On the contrary, there is much to say that these are mere post-constructions of something that was actually a politically motivated outlet. What makes it quite unlikely that the government would be seriously dissatisfied with its own Director General is also that Annika Strandhäll offered Ann-Marie-Marie Begler to become Director General of the Pensions Agency in connection with the sale. My own experience is not that judicious ministers offer a Director General who has seriously mismanaged his work on an authority to instead become head of another large authority responsible for the Swedish pension system's more than SEK 1 000 billion. In addition to all these serious circumstances, the acting Director-General of the Social Insurance Office testifies that the Ministry of Social Security has threatened with a serious impact, following the release by the Social Insurance Office of public documents on the dialogue between the Ministry and the Authority to the media. In addition, the former Director General, former Legal Director and former Internal Auditor at Försäkringskassan have explained with considerable precision in letters to the Constitutional Committee why Annika Strandhäll's response in KU's hearings is not credible. Mr President, I would like to Annika Strandhäll dismissed a Director-General against her will a few months before the election and transferred her with immediate effect in violation of labour law. She has also tried to deceive the Parliament's Constitutional Committee about the real reasons for this, and her ministry is accused of trying to silence one of the country's largest and socially critical authorities. The Minister of Social Security has abused her position as Minister of State, and her actions are a threat to the integrity and independence of the State Administration. She's crossed the line of what the Moderates can tolerate. It is remarkable that Annika Strandhäll's boss has allowed this mismanagement to last for so long. The country's Prime Minister is now trying to reduce Parliament's decision on confidence in Strandhäll to a question of hatetails in social media. It is an unworthy game designed to remove focus from the important fundamental issue of the integrity and undominance of the state administration. If the Riksdag, Mr President, today expresses its confidence in Annika Strandhäll, a message is sent out to the Swedish authorities that it is wise to take party policy into account in future if you want to keep your job. This is exactly what is happening in other EU countries that Sweden is very much critical of. So our confidence is exhausted. Parliament should declare that the Minister for Social Security no longer enjoys the confidence of the Riksdag.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-40	Mr President, I would like to The question we are now considering concerns some very fundamental issues. How does the government manage the administration of the state? Have legitimate political considerations been subject to party political needs during an election year? Can the Riksdag expect the Government to work with transparency and the respect for Sweden's legislature that we all have the right to demand? In the spring of 2018, the Social Democrats were under pressure. In several measurements, the lot landed 3, 4 and in some cases 5 percentage points below its own target of 30 per cent. The government had given Försäkringskassan clear instructions to reduce sickness rates, and Försäkringskassan had during the testifying skilled Director General Ann-Marie-Marie Begler delivered according to order. But people had been squeezed. Critical voices, including those of us Christian Democrats, pointed out how the Social Insurance Agency applied health insurance and assistance compensation, how the most in need of assistance were squeezed, how children in need of assistance did not get the help they needed. That criticism remains. But – and this is important – the Social Insurance Agency is an authority. It's a government order. When the Government gives an assignment to Försäkringskassan through the responsible Minister Annika Strandhäll, the responsibility is the responsibility of the Government. The Swedish Government Annika Strandhäll did not take that responsibility. She dismissed through redeployment The Director General of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency Ann-Marie Begler. The issue ended up in the Constitutional Committee. The Swedish Government Annika Strandhäll claimed that the relocation took place in agreement with Ann ‐ Marie Begler. Begler did not share that image – carefully put. And this had the KU to review. After Strandhäll's testimony, the former Director General, the former Chief of Legal Affairs and the former Internal Auditor at Försäkringskassan receive her rebuttal. Their statements show that Minister Strandhäll's version does not add up. Mr President, I would like to Here two separate errors have been made: first Minister Annika Strandhäll's careless handling of the state administration, which was subordinated to the needs of the Social Democratic Party during an election year, then Minister Annika Strandhäll's misleading in the Constitutional Committee. The Christian Democrats believe that both these violations by Minister Strandhäll justify a motion of censure. Together they are indefensible. The Christian Democrats' view is that Minister Strandhäll should be declared lacking the confidence of the Riksdag. That is how we will vote today.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-47	Mr President, I would like to There is a lot to say on the subject, and a lot has already been said, but I will be brief. Our democracy is based on the fact that the authorities we have in Sweden are governed by the government. This includes the possibility of appointing and dismissing Heads of Government when necessary. It is an important order that democracy is superior to the administration. If errors are suspected of having been committed, there is a good tool for reviewing whether this has happened. It's in the Parliament's Constitutional Committee. It is a function of our Swedish government that the Green Party defends. We are therefore not going to stand up for the rogue games of the Moderates. Whatever the background, it is unreasonable and desperate to use the instrument of censure in this way without Members of Parliament having the opportunity to take a position on the review of the Constitutional Committee. We will therefore vote against today's vote of censure.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-50	Mr President, I would like to I'll keep it short, too. We shall therefore take a position on the motion of censure raised by the Moderates against Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll. It is interesting to hear how the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the debate are suddenly talking out loud about labour law and job security, at least in the case of Directors-General. They no longer have confidence in the Minister for Social Security because the government has chosen to separate the Director General of the Social Insurance Agency from her assignment there and instead employ her in the Government Office. It is still a fairly safe decommissioning, one might think. The Left Party defends the security of all, not just of Directors-General. We believe that what has happened to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is a scandal. It is a scandal how people are treated in health insurance, that sick people are not compensated, forced to go from house and home, or live on loved ones, when health insurance no longer works. But that is because of the policy that both the government and the parties that are talking about security today are behind. I don't care what the minister's name is, there's a hot pursuit of the sick. If health insurance is to be safe, a completely different policy is required, and it will certainly not change in any way by the replacement of a minister. The Left Party will therefore abstain in today's vote.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-54	Mr President, I would like to The instrument of suspicion is one of the most important expressions of parliamentary democracy in Sweden's constitution. The Government is accountable to the Riksdag. The Liberals will vote in favour of a motion of censure on Minister Annika Strandhäll. We do this because Annika Strandhäll, in her role as Minister of State, acted unjustifiably in connection with the government's transfer of the former Director General of Försäkringskassan, despite the fact that her appointment had not expired. To the critical questions that followed, the Government has given conflicting answers. Her tasks are also contradicted by key persons involved in this process and have great insight into this. There are very good reasons to assume that the removal was actually done on political grounds. The election movement in 2018 was approaching, and the red-green government found that the political consequences of the assignments that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency had received became more and more embarrassing. Liberals criticised this. We did it for good reason. But it was the government's policy and the government's responsibility. Mr President, I would like to This is not an individual matter. It is an important matter of principle. The Swedish administrative model is based on independent authorities that are governed by budget decisions that are governed by regulatory letters that are governed by mandates. Anyone appointed to lead an authority must be able to do so with integrity within the framework of the missions given. If a system emerges where directors-general need to be concerned about being transferred at any time because of party political tactics and political considerations, this will damage the Swedish administrative model. Losers then become all the people who depend on the activities of the authorities in one way or another, whether they are employees or citizens. Losers also become trust in government agencies. Trust in state power is damaged. Trust in the state apparatus is damaged. This is serious in the long term. The Liberals cooperate with the government through the January agreement. We shall jointly draw up budget proposals. We will implement a broad reform agenda on 73 points with many good liberal proposals. I'm looking forward to it. But we have not signed an agreement on Stefan Lövven's ministerial list. Stefan Löfven is not obliged to submit to his ministerial list for approval. Nor have we committed ourselves to giving unconditional confidence to each of his ministers. As an independent parliamentary party, the Liberals reserve the right to independently test the confidence in the ministers that Stefan Löfven chooses to appoint to the government. Annika Strandhäll's actions are also subject to scrutiny by the Parliament's Constitutional Committee. It was I, as the Liberal Group leader, who submitted a report to the Constitutional Committee. The KU will soon present the conclusions of its review. It is a very important review. But the role of the KU must be kept separate from what we are discussing today. The KU will test the actions of the ministers from a strictly constitutional perspective. The KU does not have the role of raising the question of trust or mistrust. The question of trust or mistrust is political, and we are now deciding on it. The KU will examine this from a constitutional perspective. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, we have come to the conclusion from the Liberals that we lack confidence in Annika Strandhäll as Minister of State. That is how we will vote today.
i-Jw3j7TykPGxfcGvGJchoY8	The matter of censure on Minister Annika Strandhäll(S) would now be resolved.
i-Kw8va6gVnK4bVvTpAGkeEt	Mattias Karlsson in Norrhult and others from the Swedish Democrats have submitted a motion invoking chapter 9. Section 15, the Parliamentary Order. Under this provision, motions for a major event may be initiated jointly by at least ten members if the event could not be foreseen or taken into account during the general exercise period or any other exercise period in Chapter 9. Parliament's order of business. The exercise is about the risk of power deficiency and reduced delivery reliability when Ringhals 1 and 2 is discontinued. The motion proposes an announcement that the government will conduct an independent investigation into the socio-economic consequences of the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 and the possibility of extending the lifetime of the operation of the reactors.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-62	The right to raise motions for an event of greater importance was introduced in connection with the 1974 constitutional reform. It was then underlined that the proposed provision is of an exceptional nature. Parliament has also applied the provision restrictively. The decision to close Ringhals 1 and 2 was already taken in 2015. Exercise requests related to this were raised during the general exercise period 2018/19. These petitions have been dealt with by the Riksdag during the spring. On 27 February, therefore, requests from the general exercise period for Vattenfall to be required, on the one hand, to protect the Swedish electricity supply from a long-term perspective and, on the other hand, to stop the decommissioning of Ringhals 1 and 2 (bet). 2018/ 19:NU4). On 9 May this year, the Riksdag also approved a request from the general exercise period for the Government to develop delivery safety objectives that take into account the needs of the whole society and which is based on the importance of electricity supply for Sweden's competitiveness as an industry (bet. 2018/ 19:NU12). In addition, on 2 May this year the Committee on Economic Affairs has examined and rejected a proposal for a committee initiative to maintain Ringhals 1 and 2 (committee meeting 2018/ 19:33). The motion that has now been tabled thus concerns an issue that has been foreseeable and taken into account during the general period of exercise and which has also been dealt with recently in the Riksdag. No new information has been added which could be considered to have occurred as an unforeseen event of major importance thereafter. My assessment is therefore that the exercise cannot be awakened on the basis of Chapter 9. Section 15, the Parliamentary Order. According to the 11th chapter. Section 7 The Parliamentary Order thus precludes the referral of the motion to committees. I therefore propose that the House add the motion to the record. Is this acceptable? The answer is yes.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-72	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to express my support for the Moderates' reservation in this report. I and the Moderates are concerned that the government does not see and, let alone, is able to take decisive action to address the truly major public health policy challenges we face and the increased health gaps that are now emerging. The Swedish population is becoming increasingly inactive and overweight. Today, every other Swedish person is overweight or obese. And our children and young people spend about 70 percent of their waking time sitting, standing or moving very little. Only 10 percent of their waking time is devoted to moderate exercise physical activity. If we do not reverse the trend, today's children risk living shorter than their parents. Pacific is really dangerous. I wish, Madam President, that we could devote more attention to these issues in the public health debate. Madam President, I would like In general, I think that we are paying too little attention to public health policy issues. Once we discuss public health issues, we tend to discuss symbolic policy and tricky regulation over the really important and major issues. Symptomatic of the Red-Green Government is its inability to prioritise and address Sweden's real problems and challenges, especially in the area of public health policy. You sift mosquitoes and swallow camels. We Moderates do not think that alcoglass should be unregulated, but, Madam President, at the same time we see that ice-cream filling is, frankly, not a very widespread problem. What is, however, a serious and widespread problem is that the contraband prince flows across our borders and that unscrupulous people fill social media and sell alcohol and drugs to our children and young people. Now we have 416 pages of investigation and a bill of 245 pages on alcoglass – a fairly peripheral problem. At the same time, the Minister of Social Affairs is surprised that it is so easy to borrow and buy alcohol on, for example, Instagram. Unlike the government, we Moderates are not dizzy, but have long seen the problems. We have therefore put forward, among other things, proposals for substantial reinforcements of resources to customs and police in order to stop the introduction of alcohol and drugs and to give the police more opportunities to hunt down and catch the dealers. In total, our spending on the police amounts to nearly 1.6 billion more than that of the government and includes, among other things, a special wage effort to increase the attractiveness of the police profession and simply take steps to get closer to the target of 10,000 more police workers by 2024. In addition, our investments in customs. We want 500 new customs officials to be appointed during their term of office and to contribute in a first step SEK 90 million to finance this. Madam President, I would like The government proposal on alcoglasse and similar products is narrow and concerns just these products. In the follow-up motion that we Moderates have given, we want a more comprehensive reasoning and a more comprehensive discussion on Swedish alcohol policy. The fact that a state-owned company is now going to be commissioned to sell ice cream means that one can really think about whether we should not take a proper interest in Swedish alcohol policy. We see today that the policy is also inconsistent. Why, for example, is it allowed to sell beer with an alcoholic strength of up to 3.5 percent but not to sell must or cider with the same strength? We think it is time for a thorough, thorough review of the Swedish alcohol market, not least in view of the fact that the Expert Group on Studies in the Public Economy has stated in a recent report that the current alcohol policy does not work satisfactorily, but rather badly. We Moderates are not afraid to question old truths. For us Systembolaget is certainly not an end in itself. However, in order to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol, we have seen the retail monopoly on alcohol as justified. Let us assess whether it continues to be an effective tool.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-84	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to deal with the Social Affairs Committee's report 18 Regulating alcoglass and others. products – a narrowly small report, but extremely important. In recent years a lot of new products have started to come onto the market. These are different products that are not beverages but contain alcohol in any case. They can have a sky high alcohol content – up to 96 % vol. These products are designed in such a way that they are not covered by the current alcohol legislation and can therefore be sold elsewhere than Systembolaget. They are therefore left out of the control we have for all other alcohol products. There are a large number of new products, such as ice cream or frozen drinks with an alcoholic strength of up to about 9 % vol. So it is ice cream that is stronger than a normal strong beer. It may be cream with added alcohol, with an alcoholic strength of up to 14 % vol. It can be olives that contain as much as 2.5 centiliters of spirits. It can be jelly candy with an alcoholic strength of about 6.5 percent; it is also stronger than a regular strong beer. And it can be powders or tablets containing up to 96 % by volume of alcohol. So these are deadly products. As you can see, we must also regulate this type of product. In the legislative proposal we are now debating, the concept of ‘alcoholic beverage-like preparations' is introduced precisely to cover this new market. The proposal proposes a definition of alcoholic preparations which, from the point of view of consumption, are equivalent to alcoholic beverages or can otherwise be assumed to be used as intoxicants. ..................................................... As far as possible, this should be regulated in the same way as any other alcohol. This applies to sales, wholesale trade, marketing, serving and supervision, but also to criminal provisions contained in the Alcohol Act on illicit sales, illegal possession, illegal trading and illegal handling and more. It shall be as equal as possible for all alcoholic products. Madam President, I would like Why, then, is this regulation being made? Ultimately, it is a matter of public health and safety, as well as strengthening that alcohol preparations and products should not be placed on an unregulated market. It is an important and good public health policy. This is about more than what Johan Hultberg described as ice cream fill. The monopoly is important here, because it is both effective and good. Especially important is the monopoly of products that appeal to children, such as jelly candy and whipped cream. Powders with 96% alcohol can be directly life-threatening if ingested in greater quantities, and for children, the greater amount leading to poisoning is not a large amount. It may not even be known that these products contain alcohol. You may think that it is only olives you eat or pure juice or soda you drink when it is powder mixed. Systembolaget should have the confidence to sell these alcohol-like preparations just like alcoholic beverages, and we think that is very good. This control is needed so that minors do not get over these products. That's the whole point. There is also a need for these products to be subject to exactly the same rules as other alcohol preparations. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-92	Madam President, I would like The main point of my speech was that the government sifts mosquitoes and swallows camels and misses the major public health policy challenges. This applies generally, but also if we focus on the particular area of alcohol. While we have huge problems that our children and young people can quickly and easily get their hands on alcohol and drugs through just one search on the phone, the government is putting a lot of effort and time into today's question. In her speech, Lena Emilsson pointed out that this is a very important proposal and question. I think it is reasonable that we have regulation in this area, but more important to me and the Moderates is that we can reduce the problem of contraband, strengthen customs and hunt down those who unscrupulously exploit children and young people and sell and sell alcohol and drugs to them. My questions to Mr Emilsson are therefore: Why is there no government proposal on how to tackle trafficking and smuggling and how to push back this which is really major public health policy challenges and problems? Does Lena Emilsson not think it will be a bit absurd if Systembolaget in the future should not only have freezers with ice cream but also olive dishes and an assortment of alcoholic candy products? Could this not be an input to a greater review and a greater grasp of whether we have found the right regulation of the alcohol market for the future?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-98	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Hultberg for interesting questions. Basically, this is about the fact that we have completely different views on the alcohol monopoly, i.e. that only Systembolaget should sell alcohol. Just because we now have a small report on regulating unregulated products does not mean that we are not doing anything in all the other areas mentioned by Johan Hultberg. These are also urgent issues. Of course, it is important to combat smuggling and illegal sales in every way, but that is not what today's report is about. It is important to keep the alcohol monopoly, because you should not be able to buy 96 % powder that can be mixed in water. It is also products that can be discussed whether they can be sold at all. But that is not what it is about here, it is about them being regulated. Now it becomes so that if someone wants to buy such a product, if it is for sale, it will be provided by Systembolaget. I think this is perfectly reasonable because it is important to maintain the monopoly. We must have a sale that ensures that minors do not get to them, and then it does not matter whether it is jelly candy or a 96% powder. I therefore believe that this is a very important issue.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-103	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is more important for us to see the real big problems and challenges. I note that Mr Emilsson does not in a word describe the work the government is alleged to be doing to tackle trafficking, smuggling and the enormous amount of alcohol that is being brought across our borders and sold to our minors. It is amazing to hear the Minister of Social Affairs' statement in the media that she is surprised at the availability of alcohol and drugs. I am really concerned that the government does not have better knowledge and understanding of the reality of our children and young people and how easy it is to obtain alcohol and drugs. I do not want to be too fussy on this issue, even if it may be perceived as such. However, it is important that we see the real challenges and that we do not let today's issue steal focus from the major issues. That's my point. Member Emilsson says that it is important to maintain the monopoly. My entrance is then to discuss whether it is an effective tool. Among other things, ESO has produced a report stating that Systembolaget does not seem to be so anymore. Then I and the Moderates think it would be reasonable to take a concerted approach and evaluate whether Systembolaget is really an effective tool to achieve what both Mr Emilsson and I want: to minimise the negative social and health consequences of alcohol. Again, are the Social Democrats prepared to look at which tools are most effective in politics? Or is Systembolaget as such an end in itself for the Member Emilsson and the Social Democrats?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-108	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg talks a lot about the fact that in this debate we are going to debate things that the report is not about, but I will stick to the point. Today we are debating report 18, and it is about alco-glass with several products. It is very interesting that Johan Hultberg highlights ESO's report Sin and will tt. When this report was presented, it received sharp criticism. A professor in the reference group said it was unscientific, lacked human consideration and did not at all look at what happens if you let go of sales and control. This report contains only economic calculation examples of what the treatment of alcohol damage costs, what it costs when people are forced to sign up for sick leave and cannot pay taxes on their salary, what it will be on the plus account if you die prematurely because the state does not have to pay pension and so on. It is not about human affairs or human suffering for the alcoholic and for the relatives who are also affected. The report also contains nothing about what happens if you release the alcohol monopoly and allow alcohol products to be sold in ordinary stores. What happens when you let go of this control, and how does it affect sales? There was no such number at all. I do not think it was a good report, and I think that the alcohol monopoly is important.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-113	Madam President, I would like Today, the Committee on Social Affairs is going to deal with the proposal for the regulation of alcoglass and other alcoholic products, which we welcome. The regulation covers, among other things, sales, wholesale trade, marketing, serving and supervision. In recent years, alcoholic products have been launched in Sweden and internationally, intended to be consumed, but then not only in beverage form but also as ice cream, candy and powder. When the so - called alcoglass appeared, they could be sold freely, without imposing any age limit or marketing requirements. It is now proposed that these products comply with the same type of rules as alcoholic beverages. Products with sweet taste and colorful packaging have always had an appeal in children and young people. Furthermore, they contain alcohol, we believe it is good and important to regulate the market for such products, in particular to protect our young people, but also to promote public health and prevent harmful effects caused by alcohol. In the bill, the government proposes to introduce a new definition, alcohol-like preparations. It shall include alcoholic preparations which, from the point of view of consumption, are equivalent to alcoholic beverages and which can be presumed to be used as intoxicants, and these must be regulated as far as possible in the same way as alcoholic beverages. The provisions giving the police the right to confiscate alcoholic beverages shall also apply to these preparations. The bill also proposes that Systembolaget's trial of home delivery of alcohol should be concluded and become part of the monopoly's regular business, which we do not mind. An evaluation has shown that home deliveries cover only a small part of Systembolaget's turnover and have not driven sales and alcohol consumption during the experiment. Having said that, I am in favour of the proposal for the regulation of alcoglasse and other alcohol-like products.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-119	Madam President, I would like I think it is very good that the Swedish Democrats support the report and see the danger of a free sale. At the same time, I wonder a little bit because they have exercised that Systembolaget's monopoly should be abolished. What about all the alcoholic products that you are now saying 'yes' to their regulation, Christina Östberg? What are the Swedish democrats thinking on this issue? What do you really want with the monopoly?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-120	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this is an issue that we have not had on our table. We are in favour of the monopoly and think it is positive.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-121	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are therefore in favour of the monopoly, but the report that we debated just a few weeks ago contained motions from several Swedish democrats who stated that they wanted to abolish the monopoly. Since they were included, this means that this is the policy of the Swedish Democrats. What is the reason why you have shifted your feet in this area and now want to retain the monopoly, Christina Östberg?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-123	Madam President, I would like Since we did not support the motions, we do not support them. I suppose it was individual exercise in such cases.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-124	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. It is good that today we have to deal with a report which regulates all forms of alcohol. Former legislators in this Assembly have not taken into account that alcohol could occur in, for example, frozen form, powdered form or candy form, and have therefore not regulated it. This is being addressed by the report, and that is a good thing. It feels like we will have a united parliament behind this. Madam President, I would like When the alcoglasse came to our attention, the large food companies quickly decided to remove it from their range. They did so because they felt that selling alcohol in a largely child-related product was not justifiable. I would say that food businesses have an internal compass that proved quite right in this respect, namely to see the children first. I can understand from a purely logical perspective how the Moderates reason when they want to allow the sale of alcoglasse up to 3.5%, but at the same time they give too little space to the children's perspective, we believe Christian Democrats. As a Christian Democrat, I choose to always, whenever possible, provide as much support and protection to children as can be achieved at all, so on this issue as well. Madam President, I would like Seriously: Sweden has made it and will be fine without a popsicle 3.5 per cent.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-129	Madam President, I would like The debate is about regulating or changing our alcohol legislation. This is only a small part of public health policy, which has a much wider scope. It's not about harmless drugs. It has sounded like that in the media sometimes when you have laughed and said: Regulate ice cream – what! But as Lena Emilsson explained here, it is not harmless products. They are not harmless, and therefore it is important that they be regulated. But changing legislation at a time when we could not anticipate all the things that would come up takes time, and sometimes the EU should also be involved. There'll be a lot of pages, and it'll take time. But it must be allowed to do so. We in the Liberals fully support the law. It is also important, as has been pointed out, that this is part of public health policy. I would like to remind you that we have debated reports on public health, on ANDT issues and so on, and we have new legislation in the field of public health. What is important for us now is to follow up how legislation works and how knowledge of it is spread out in regions, municipalities and society as a whole. Perhaps at some point we should discuss and learn more about how the Public Health Authority and the county boards work with this legislation and so on. However, this is another debate, and I will therefore end my speech here.
i-FUuxTchVLSSRpWp5VZtjY4	Madam President, I would like The title of the Committee on Transport's report 12 is the processing of personal data and the registration and use of vehicles in the field of road traffic. The Swedish Democrats are in the main behind the report and, of course, I am in favour of our reservation in the report under paragraph 2. Madam President, I would like The importance of being able to carry out checks in a database on vehicles and drivers cannot be stressed enough. Modernising the Swedish system in accordance with the report is a good thing. However, our control authorities must also have access to all databases in Europe. This is particularly important in view of the scale of traffic across national borders, both in terms of professional traffic and in terms of private car use. Why is it so important to be able to hit vehicles and drivers? The answer is simple: you have to be able to identify both vehicles and their drivers. Is it the right vehicle in relation to the license plate? The registration and chassis numbers shall be consistent so that the vehicle is not falsely signged. Who is the owner of the vehicle? It is important to ensure that this is not a stolen vehicle. Is the vehicle inspected and estimated? Vehicles can literally fly below the radar and never return to their country of registration for inspection, for example. Can the tow truck and any trailer be connected? This has to do with the strength of the traction device. Is there a valid traffic permit? It is important when it comes to professional transport. Is the driver entitled to drive the vehicle combination in question? Does the driver have a valid certificate of professional competence? Is it the right person to have his driver card on the tachograph? Is the person responsible for any crime? Madam President, I would like Let me take a few examples from the events of the last week on the way. In the first case, it is an abandoned Polish trailer tow truck. The vehicle has been abandoned in a very inappropriate place in the traffic environment. The combination was simply dangerous to traffic. Despite repeated attempts, the authorities were unable to find the owner, so the vehicle was towed to a municipal site. The problem of not all EU Member States opening their vehicle registers to each other's controlling authorities becomes obvious. In the second case, a police patrol in a northern town stopped a Polish tow truck. During the conversation between the police and the Polish hauliers, the discussion on the problems of the transport industry in Europe developed. One newspaper article reads: And here's the thing about the trainings and the permits. "There are fake passports, fake YKB, and fake everything possible the further east they come," he says. It is not at all good for road safety. It's a dangerous development. Wojciech Regulski is well aware of the development of the transport industry in Europe, and he wants to see a strong fight against fraud. ..................................................... These were a few examples from reality last week. Madam President, I would like It is the easiest thing in the world to start a transport business today and rather risk-free to round the legislation on professional traffic. I can go out to any dealer and buy a decommissioned tow truck. In connection with the purchase, I get access to all the technical data on the vehicle. I then sit down at the computer and order registration plates and associated registration certificates. I would like to select a registration number from a country that is not part of European cooperation. The fact that the registration number is false is less important because in practice it is not possible to verify the authenticity of a roadside inspection. A few days later I get my order at the post office, and suddenly I have a vehicle registered abroad that is basically impossible to connect to any responsible owner. While ordering my license plates, I also ordered a human. Well, this is how it's done. I literally buy a person on the Internet. The person is then delivered to one of the depots located around the country. If the newly ordered driver is missing a valid driving licence, there is no problem whatsoever. License, YKB, driver card – you name it – everything can be ordered online. An unregistered pre-paid telephone is also purchased for the driver, and all communications are then made via this telephone and traffic management, which of course also has an unregistered pre-paid telephone. Madam President, I would like This is how criminal networks build up their business. It is almost impossible for controlling authorities to access them because they do not exist in a common system in Europe. For us Swedish democrats, it goes without saying that Sweden should be active in the fight against the criminal networks. Therefore, Sweden must also be a driving force in Europe in order to establish a common system with the necessary databases for the control of vehicles and drivers. I therefore support our reservation in paragraph 2.
i-MBQ2xspcXM368uTwigABFY	Madam President, I would like Today, therefore, we are dealing with the Government's proposal on the processing of personal data and the registration and use of vehicles in the field of road traffic. Unlike the previous speaker, I was going to talk about precisely what the matter is about, namely that we are replacing the Road Traffic Register Act with a new Road Traffic Act that regulates the processing of personal data in the Swedish Transport Agency's activities. What is really at issue here is the modernisation of the current law and its operation in the field of transport today. It is also an adaptation to the EU Data Protection Regulation. There is also a division into two laws that makes this both clearer and easier to relate to. Actually, this is nothing controversial at all. In committee, we have been quite in agreement, apart from a motion brought by the Swedish Democrats. We in the committee have been in complete agreement that this issue is not about whether we in Sweden can have access to other countries' information. On the contrary, we do not see that the issue really belongs here. The committee believes that the government has come up with a good proposal which makes our legislation clearer and better and which also allows us to better manage registers of vehicles in the field of road traffic. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-158	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Transport Committee's report 15 on aviation issues. This is a report with motions from general exercise time. The report also deals with a government proposal on ground handling services at airports. Sweden is an elongated country. Sweden is a fantastic country. In order to get back and forth around Sweden and to be able to work, live and work around Sweden, different types of infrastructure are required. It requires transport that is sustainable over time, that is safe in time and that we, as citizens, can rely on. Sweden is also a small country on the outskirts of Europe. We are a country that requires a lot of trade. This is an issue that we have touched on a lot during the past European election movement around Sweden. In order to get Sweden to be connected with Europe and with the rest of the world, transport is required. One of the important modes of transport is aviation. There has been a lot of debate over the last few weeks on the basis of aviation as a climate villain and on the basis of aviation as the great shame that contributes to the large emissions. It's a bit of a boring development. We Moderates believe that aviation must be responsible for its climate emissions. But basically it is not the aircraft that is the problem but the fuel in the aircraft. We need to look at technology development and the efficiency of aviation. Already today there are machines in Sweden that have 50 percent bio-based fuel. Already today, aircraft that are fully electrified are taking off. Soon we will see an aircraft fleet even in Sweden that is more environmentally friendly than it has ever been. There, too, aviation can provide the climate change that we need to contribute to in the rest of the world. Swedish aviation is fantastic, and Sweden could develop aviation much more and become a leading nation in the technology development that is so much needed both when it comes to aviation as a machine and when it comes to fuel production. The flight is needed to keep our elongated country together. We have major regional challenges around Sweden when it comes to this, and then our regional airports are required. We are seeing developments at the moment that distinguish state airports from non-state airports, where the latter are in deficit. Unfortunately, this government has again introduced the airline tax. Aviation tax has a negative impact on non-state airports. To compensate for this, Madam President, the government would provide compensation for airports. Unfortunately, we see that this compensation is missing. This mainly affects the airports located in northern Sweden, but it also applies all the way down to Mälardalen and Småland. This is harmful to Sweden. It is detrimental to trade, and in the long run it will make us more Stockholm and metropolitan. It's boring. This also means that, in the long term, aviation lacks the long-term perspective it needs to develop. We want support for airports. We would like to see a balance between non-state airports and state airports so that air transport will ultimately bear its own costs. Madam President, I would like The flight needs to be reset. Then we must talk about fuel and fuel production. We think that new technologies, efficiency improvements, modernisations and other ways of flying are needed to approach a climate-smart way of flying that is only possible. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 1 on regional airports and their impact. We will soon hear other debaters here talking about aviation and about the air vent that is currently in place. I would like this discussion to also mention how one views the future of aviation and how one sees Sweden staying together without aviation and without regional airports. That is the impact we will see if we continue with the current developments in aviation. We need our flight, and we'll be proud of our flight. But we're gonna fly smarter in the future.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, audiences and viewers! From the time the Wright brothers got their first flying machine in the air until today, the flight has had an incredible development. The old motto has gone from higher and faster, to the fact that aircraft engineers are now increasingly engaged in economics. The last Concorden was taken out of regular traffic in 2003, and now more fuel-efficient engines are being built that will be able to fly far for as little money as possible. In the past, four engines were involved; two will be enough. What used to be luxury and flair has today become a hard-pressed industry that operates with small profit margins. Madam President, I would like Swedish commercial aviation will soon celebrate 100 years. In 1924 the first Swedish commercial route between Stockholm and Helsinki started with a Junkers F 13. Much has happened since then, and today too many flights are a necessity for them to carry out or travel to their work. It is also a fantastic and unbeatable means of transport for long journeys. In a couple of three hours you reach most of Europe, and we can travel across the Atlantic in a few hours. Regular route flights carry passengers, cargo and mail. It stands, together with the non-regular charter service, for about 8 million domestic passengers annually. If you include international passengers, the number rises to about 30 million. Here I want to be clear. For the Swedish Democrats, aviation is an obvious means of transport, and it will remain so. The flight is not a usch and phy; the flight is something we should be proud of. We pay attention to the enemies of growth who, in their fanaticism, are trying to shame those who travel by air. We say 'yes' to prosperity and growth and therefore say 'no' to air tax. Domestic aviation in Sweden accounts for about 4 per cent of total national CO2 emissions, while the entire transport sector accounts for about 38 per cent – rhyme and reason! We want to see a strong aviation industry that is characterised by trust and that buys new and modern fuel-efficient flight types. We want to see an aviation industry that has the muscles to involve biofuels without the risk of going bankrupt. We want to see an aviation industry that can afford to develop and phase in electric flights when the technology is possible. In order for the industry to be able to get there, we should not impose additional charges. That is why I am the first to regret the fact that the airline tax, which we abolished with Mr M and Mr KD, has now been re-imposed. May the social conservative winds that we saw in this weekend's European elections persist! The social-conservative bloc grew by nearly 12 per cent, and several anti-growth parties backed up. Madam President, I would like Bromma airport must remain in place for the foreseeable future. Bromma's attractive location and Arlanda's lack of capacity mean that we see no reason to phase out Bromma airport. Stockholm is the country's strongest growth engine and an attractive place for both companies and individuals. In order for Stockholm to remain attractive, especially for companies, good air communications from Bromma are required. This is something that does not benefit from closure, especially since Bromma airport is one of the country's busiest and about 90 percent of the trips are work-related. This puts around 24 000 jobs at risk. The city's major airport, Arlanda, is also in need of Bromma airport. Arlanda is close to its capacity maximum and is currently unable to take over the traffic from Bromma, especially during the times when most of the traffic to and from Bromma takes place. In addition, Arlanda is in international comparisons far down the ranking when it comes to proximity to the city centre. Bromma is also a strong hub for domestic aviation, which is why closure risks having a major impact also on activities in several other locations. Bromma airport is therefore of great value, not only for Stockholm but also for the Swedish business community as a whole. A closure would therefore be disastrous. Bromma's big brother Arlanda is predicting a bright future with a sharp increase in travel. It is therefore important for Arlanda to be given resources to develop and for capacity-enhancing measures to be taken. Several airlines have complained about the availability of the ground services and it needs to be improved. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of investment aid for airports. We also want to raise safety in aviation, and we want to see strengthened sobriety controls at airports. We believe that controls prevent accidents, but regular checks also work proactively for both pilots and other staff. The controls also have positive effects from a customer perspective, where passengers should have confidence in flight personnel and airlines. We therefore want to increase resources to the police in connection with airports. The Swedish Democrats also want to tighten up the Aviation Act and the Aviation Regulation. Recently, we have experienced a new type of crime, where the perpetrator carries out a kind of sabotage by actively and deliberately opposing the flight crew's instructions regarding safety procedures. This action is used, among other things, to prevent the exercise of authority – something we have seen several examples of. We take seriously the fact that individuals rise above Swedish law at the expense of other people. We therefore believe that this behaviour must be prosecuted. We believe that the current aviation law does not go far enough. We therefore propose that there should be an urgent review of the penalties and also of the offences considered to be punishable. We also see the need for increased resources for the police around airports. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are a guarantor of a strong Swedish aviation industry. We protect aviation safety, we protect the Swedish aviation industry, we protect the right of Swedes to a well-developed and functioning domestic flight and we protect Bromma airport. We defend the single mother's right to bring the children on a week's holiday to the Canary Islands without being ashamed of this. We safeguard business travellers' ability to fly, and we safeguard Swedish growth and prosperity. We are not out cycling in our visions, but we have high-flying plans for Swedish aviation. In conclusion, I would like to say that we support all our reservations, but for the time to come, I only support reservation 6 on the maintenance of Bromma airport.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-184	Madam President, I would like Like the previous speaker, I would like to highlight aviation as the very efficient means of transport that it is to bridge large distances in contexts where corresponding time-efficient land-based means of transport are not available. Sweden is a country with great distances. We are on the edge of Europe, which makes people and activities here in our country in very many contexts dependent on working flights and air transport in order to make their way to other destinations within and outside the country at reasonable times and in reasonable circumstances to do work and contribute to the country's growth. Madam President, I would like We all want to contribute in this House to reducing the climate impact of the transport sector, and most of us have also recognised that work. In this context – when it comes to the climate impact of aviation – it is very important to remember the principle that emissions are to be hunted, not transport itself. It is not the flight itself that is the problem, but the problem is the climate-related emissions it produces. Compared to land-based means of transport, aviation, like shipping with its ports, is relatively resource efficient because it requires only runways and runways, not infrastructure built on the slopes in the form of roads and railways. Madam President, I would like I'll continue with flight and climate. In order to achieve a climate sustainable aviation sector, effective instruments are required that lead to technological development, which in turn reduce emissions from aviation. It does not help with national aviation alone – this is an international activity, and then it is international action that needs to be done. The Center Party therefore considers that the pace of change to increase the use of renewable fuels and to switch technology needs to be significantly increased and that this in turn requires a series of measures if it is to be meaningful and effective, and not merely cosmetic measures. These are measures such as serious investment in research and development and in pilot plants that turn into permanent plants to produce biofuels. The technology and the raw material are there, but production needs to get started. It is also a question of us consuming aviation services also having access to information on the emissions generated by our flights, so that the demand we have for air services can affect the supply of air travel. As I have mentioned before, aviation itself is global, and its impact is global. It is important that we work together with other countries at international level to find joint actions that help reduce aviation emissions. For this reason, Madam President, Sweden must be even more proactive in the international negotiations that are being conducted in order for aviation as a transport mode along with others to pay for its climate costs. As the President knows, the Centre Party, together with the Liberals and the Government, has reached a substantive political agreement – the so-called January Agreement – which covers 73 points. The January agreement includes a point, No 32, which is precisely about reducing the climate impact of aviation. This point is not about reducing flying, but about reducing the climate impact of aviation. The January agreement states that a mandatory climate declaration for the purchase of air travel will be implemented and that Sweden will take a leading role in renegotiating international agreements and conventions that today put an end to the taxation of fossil aviation fuel. The January agreement includes a requirement to introduce mandatory inclusion of renewable fuel and to review the possibility of introducing environmentally responsible take-off and landing charges with a view to moving the entire chain in an air transport sector in the right direction. The agreement also provides for an aviation fuel tax scheme – when it is in place – to replace today's flight ticket tax. The January agreement also involves substantial investment in new domestic production of renewable, non-fossil fuel, which is possible for, among other things, the aviation industry to use. Madam President, I would like Earlier in the debate, the need for runways – or runways – and airfields throughout the country has been raised. In this vision or picture, the Center Party also agrees. The flight as a means of transport connects Sweden. It in itself provides jobs, it enables activities and it increases opportunities – for example in a growing tourism industry – to be active throughout the country. The flight keeps running an elongated and sparsely populated country. For these and many more reasons, the government must speed up the pace in order to strengthen the conditions for Swedish flights. In this context, regional, non-state airports throughout the country play a very important role. If we don't have functioning airports all over the country, we don't have a flight either. Many of these smaller, local or regionally owned airports are in an economically very difficult situation. The Center Party therefore considers that Swedavia's profit-sharing model should be reviewed in order to strengthen the survival prospects of regional airports as well. We cannot, Madam President, hold the country together and give people and businesses in our country reasonable access to Swedavia's ten airports alone. In conclusion, Madam President, the Center Party naturally supports its reservations and specific opinions in this report, but for time-winning, I only call for reservation No 3.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-204	Madam President, I would like Aviation is a controversial means of transport, and although it accounts for a relatively small proportion of our carbon dioxide emissions, aviation occupies a large part of the Swedish environmental debate. For us as Christian Democrats, it is important to see that aviation is one of Sweden's most important means of transport, which makes our elongated country stick together. At the same time, it is important that our air transport is carried out in an economic, ecological and safe manner. Madam President, I would like I believe that the regional airports in Sweden are of great importance for communications with Stockholm and other destinations around Sweden and the world to work. Through Swedavia, the Swedish State has chosen to maintain and companyise the large airports, which are mainly located in metropolitan areas and where there is higher turnover and hence profitability and large profits. At the same time, the smaller non-governmental airports, which are mainly owned by municipalities with the support of county councils and regions, do not have the same high turnover and therefore have more difficulty in making profits. These airports are located throughout the country and are very important for municipalities and regions. As non-governmental airports find it difficult to create their own competitive advantages, we believe that there is a risk that large parts of Sweden will lose out on the growth that aviation contributes to through increased tourism and work commuting. We would therefore like to emphasise the need to safeguard regional airports and their survival. In addition, the financing arrangements for small non-governmental regional airports need to be reviewed in order to create long-term sustainable solutions. One approach, highlighted by several medium-sized airports, is that municipal and regional authorities should be given the legal right to carry out their own air transport contracts, thus increasing the number of routes and thus improving the economy of their own airport while improving the conditions for local business. Regardless of how we strengthen local airports, it is important that we strengthen them, as they play an important role and facilitate our work in order for the whole country to live. Madam President, I would like Stockholm is a growing city. Therefore, an airport close to the city is needed – Bromma. Stockholm is an economic hub and a growth engine that affects the whole of Sweden, and there must therefore be fast transport to and from Stockholm. We believe that Bromma airport is of great importance for the accessibility of regional airports and rural areas, as well as the conditions for development. If you shut down Bromma airport, it will have negative consequences for the whole country. In addition to the fact that it is important that Bromma continues to develop as a hub for domestic aviation, we will also continue to develop our three major international airports Arlanda, Landvetter and Malmö Airport. A well-functioning flight is a necessity if we are to continue to develop the Swedish economy. Our major airports are significant hubs in the metropolitan regions of Sweden and need to be developed in order to continue to be the growth engines that Sweden needs. For example, Arlanda today aims to have 50,000 jobs in the future and to be an airport that gives business and other users the opportunity to reach most countries in the world. Madam President, I would like I would like to point out that aviation is responsible for a relatively small but growing proportion of climate-related emissions and that it is important that Sweden continues to be at the forefront of the green conversion of air traffic. The climate threat is global, which is why global agreements are needed via the EU and the International Aviation Organisation (ICAO). It is positive that ICAO has agreed, inter alia through EU pressure, on measures to limit the climate impact of aviation. In order for Sweden and the Swedish aviation industry to become a leader in the green transition, I believe that there needs to be mandatory inclusion of renewable fuel in order to ensure that emissions from flying are reduced. Furthermore, I believe that climate-governing start-up and landing charges need to be introduced to reward those who use efficient engines or more renewable fuels. Sweden should also put on the leadership shirt to renegotiate the international agreements and conventions that put an end to the taxation of aviation fuel. Furthermore, I believe that there needs to be a targeted investment in research and development of biofuels for aviation. In Norway there is an investment in electrified flights. If this technology shift is successful, the conditions for aviation will change in a positive way. We also see that several Swedish companies, together with researchers from Chalmers, have started work on developing a new generation of electric aircraft, which if successful will provide an environmentally friendly means of transport while at the same time benefiting the Swedish business community. While we believe that aviation must take on greater climate responsibility, I would like to stress that it should not be done through a Swedish air tax that involves taxation of all flights in the same way, without regard to fuel. We are in favour of climate-governing taxes, but this must not happen in such a way that it affects the Swedish countryside or discourages future technological development. Madam President, I would like It is important for us in the KD that the flight has high safety. It is therefore problematic that on a number of occasions people have been found under the influence of alcohol in the ministry. It is also worrying that we are receiving more and more reports of drones in protected zones. Both of these phenomena risk the safety of all of us when we fly, and the authorities must act to minimise these risks. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 4.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-219	Madam President, I would like Liberals have as a fundamental principle that all modes of transport are important for the functioning of Sweden's transport system. Aviation, shipping, rail and road all have their advantages and disadvantages, and it is a combination of these four modes of transport that provides efficient door-to-door transport. Air travel is an unprecedented means of transport when it comes to transporting people and goods over long distances in a short time. However, aviation is the focus of the climate debate due to today's emissions. Here, however, the Liberals do not believe in limiting the possibility of flying; that is not the way we want to go. In order to meet the 2030 climate targets and develop sustainable aviation, we want to introduce effective instruments to stimulate technology development and the production of renewable fuels for aviation. One of the most interesting areas of aviation at the moment is the rapid development of electric flights. The potential of technology to drastically reduce emissions from both domestic and international flights in our neighbourhood is very large. The electric motors of electric aircraft are cheaper and require less maintenance, and the battery development of the more energy-tight batteries required for aviation is expected to be in line with the other technology development of electric aircraft. Electric air transport drastically reduces noise levels, allowing the use of downtown airports to quickly get to the point where you are going. With Sweden's recognised high competence in the field of aviation, this can also give rise to completely new Swedish companies in the field. This is a technological development that can revolutionise the way we fly and which requires us politicians to truly understand the potential and develop policies in parallel with the development of electric aviation. Madam President, I would like However, we need to work in parallel with many different solutions to achieve the climate targets. Since we have an agreement with the government, the Liberals have put forward a series of proposals in a separate opinion on the climate impact of aviation. Liberals want to see research and development of biofuels for aviation, coupled with a gradual increase in the involvement of biofuels in today's aviation fuel. We should also try the possibility of differentiated landing charges based on the amount of biofuels used in flights, so that those who pollute the most pay the most. The consumer should also have access to information on how much emissions air travel entails and thus be able to make climate-smart choices. Sweden must also be a driving force in international negotiations to ensure that flights pay for their own climate costs. Finally, when an aviation fuel tax system is in place, it should replace today's flight ticket tax. Liberals want to take these measures, which together will reduce the environmental impact of aviation. I would also like to mention that air links are crucial for companies around the country to be able to act globally. I would therefore like to highlight regional airports, which are currently facing major challenges. This is due, among other things, to extensive regulations at EU level, increasing safety requirements and maintenance, and to the fact that individual municipalities are allowed to take responsibility for their airports alone. The economic situation of regional airports therefore needs to be analysed, and a long-term strategy needs to be decided for the development and survival of regional airports. This approach should take into account, in addition to regular services, the need for fire, ambulance and other support to society, as well as to general aviation. In particular, general aviation made a major contribution to last year's fires, where much of the reconnaissance was handled and many of the fires were found so that they could be extinguished faster than would have been possible without general aviation. General aviation is making a major contribution and is therefore an important part of the country's rural air capacity. It also builds Sweden's combined aviation competence. Finally, Madam President, the potential of electric aviation also needs to be taken into account in the strategy for Sweden's airports. How can a cheap, fossil-free electric flight affect the living conditions of people and businesses in rural areas, and what needs for functioning airports are in that scenario? We in the Liberals support our reservation No 5, which deals with the survival of regional airports, and we also support our specific opinion.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-230	Madam President, I would like Flying is the fastest way to transport people and goods. By flying, we enable meetings across national borders around the world. There are a lot of advantages to that. Unfortunately, however, the widespread flying also has a reverse, and that is environmental and climate change. Air transport has increased so rapidly in the world that emissions from the aviation sector have more than doubled in the last 20 years. Had the aviation sector been a single country, it would have been at the top ten of the world's emitters' countries – that's the level of emissions. Even in our country we have problems with very large emissions from the aviation industry. If we count the combined climate impact of aviation, emissions are about 10 million tonnes every year here in Sweden. This is about as much as the emissions from all our passenger cars combined. The problem is that this is probably the fastest growing source of emissions we have in our country. If emissions from the aviation industry in Sweden continue to grow as fast as they do now – except for the last year when they did something, which was positive – the overall emissions from the aviation industry will soon be larger than all other emissions in Sweden. That is why we must act now. This is not sustainable. Who is actually flying? As far as the world is concerned, we know that more than 80% of the world's citizens have never ever set foot in an airplane. You just don't fly. Even in our own country, one of the richest countries in the world, we see that it is socially and economically stratified who flies a lot and who flies moderately. The average among Swedes is that they fly about one and a half times a year, while some categories – high-income people – fly every week. You go on weekend trips to London. Of course you fly to Thailand over Christmas break. You go by plane to a meeting over the day and then back home again. This doesn't hold, and far too little is done. The biofuel cherished by, for example, the Liberal Helena Gellerman and the Center's Anders Åkesson will not be enough. In her study, Maria Wetterstrand proposed the compulsory incorporation of biofuels, but we can see that at best this could reduce emissions from the aviation industry by 24% by 2030. We know that the transport sector needs to reduce its emissions overall by at least 70% by 2030, probably more, if we are to stay within the agreement of the Paris Agreement – and that is what everyone here wants us to do. It sounds amazing about electrification, Helena Gellerman, but having electric airplanes doesn't save us here and now. We know that electric aircraft are in the distant future, and we also know that there is a clear contradiction: the larger the battery, the heavier the aircraft becomes and the shorter the distances it can go. At the same time, large batteries are needed to transport aircraft long distances. The electric airplanes we are talking about today are smaller aircraft for shorter distances. Therefore, it does not keep dreaming of future technologies for either fuel or engines. Of course, we in the Left Party welcome all innovations, but we must act on the basis of what is now. Then we must dare to talk about an overall reduction in flying. I refer to our special opinion on p. 73 – 74 in the report, which deals with a number of sharp measures that would seriously reduce emissions from the aviation sector. We believe that the flight tax introduced was a good first step. It is very important to have a tax in this area, because then we will also have revenue that we can pass on to the sustainable alternative: the train. But the airline tax needs to be adjusted. We would prefer to see a progressive flight tax, i.e. a tax that increases with the number of flights you make. You can also ensure that business tickets receive a double flight tax, as business eaters take up more space in an airplane. We also need a abolished tax exemption for aviation fuel. Here we must act within the European Union and within the international aviation organisation ICAO. ICAO has its General Assembly this autumn. It starts on September 24. If it is at some point that the Swedish Government really should act decisively – because I do not think that it is acting very forcefully – it is to the ICAO General Assembly this autumn. That is when the issue of removing aviation tax exemptions can really be raised. It would be interesting to hear from the government parties what their strategy is to remove the tax exemption – not just a reference to a 73-point programme that might not be read in the EU or in ICAO. We also need to review the VAT exemption for international flights. It is strange that international flights do not pay a penny in VAT on their tickets. In addition, domestic flights have the lowest VAT rate, 6%. We need to abolish the subsidies given to airports in Sweden today, except where this is regionally justified. This may be the case in some cases, but why should we subsidise the construction of a large-scale airport in Sälen, for example? Both Patrik Jönsson and Magnus Jacobsson spoke about Bromma. Bromma airport needs closure! And it's not just for climate reasons; this is actually an airport in Stockholm located in the middle of town where we need to build homes, workplaces, preschools, schools and the like. It's a little symptomatic that so far it's a bohusnären and a show that's stood here arguing for continued flying on Bromma. The proposed expansion of Arlanda Airport must be stopped. This is where the government must act. The government must revise its aviation strategy, where this expansion was first raised. If we double the flight to and from Arlanda, as has been said and as it is written in the Government's aviation strategy, we can unfortunately forget about reducing emissions from the aviation sector. We also need new instructions to Swedavia, which owns our Swedish airports, so that they too work for reduced flying and reduced emissions. Of course, we will also work to develop sustainable biofuels and for electrification of the aviation sector. But as I said earlier, Madam President, that will not be enough. It's way too far in the future. That is why we need measures to reduce flying.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-246	Madam President, I would like I was apostrophated in Jens Holm's speech and was therefore going to raise a few things where I think it went wrong. In my speech, I spoke about electric flight. We in the Liberals are very much in favour of the development of technology, to embrace it and see what it can do. We believe that it is the one that will solve how we can reduce the impact on the climate. I mentioned in my speech a number of different things that we want to do here and now. But while we are doing things here and now, we need to look forward. When there is a technology such as electric aircraft, which can actually revolutionise the way we fly and make sure that there are no emissions at all, we as politicians must look at whether this can be the answer to our problems. The Left Party referred to the fact that the development of aviation is stagnating. If we look at battery development, we see that there is an incredible development in the world today, not least for cars, but also for aviation to be able to solve its problems. We see that we will be able to increase the energy content per kilo and that we will be able to resolve this in the future. That is why I wonder: why is the Left Party opposed to technological development? Why can't you embrace it?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-251	Madam President, I would like I concluded my speech by saying that we need sustainable biofuels and that we need to work towards electrification of the aviation industry. We need electric motors. We are certainly not against technological development. The problem is that these are not solutions for us here and now and probably not the big solution in the future either. Helena Gellerman is welcome to tell me if she seriously believes that in 10 to 15 years' time we will have electric aircraft capable of transporting 250-300 passengers plus baggage across the Atlantic. I haven't heard anyone else believe it. And if you do not believe in it, you must actually dare to propose measures to reduce emissions here and now. I mentioned the abolition of VAT exemptions, the abolition of exemptions on aviation fuel, an increase in and differentiated air tax, that we should not subsidise airports except for regional reasons and a host of other measures. I think you in the Liberals owe the answer to this. What do the Liberals want to do to seriously reduce emissions from the aviation sector here and now?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-253	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I made a number of points. I am not going to repeat them, but there is a lot going on about biofuels and the burden of emissions rather than, as the Left Party wants, reducing people's ability to fly. As far as technological developments are concerned, I am absolutely convinced that new batteries will be developed which will be able to fly across the Atlantic, much later than in 10 to 15 years' time. But it has been said that for the shorter flights of up to about 100 km, you need an energy density of 400 kilowatts per kilo, and we already see that the technology is there to reach 500 kilowatts. We will see electric flights that can help us on the short distances internally here in Sweden. In addition, I think we should pursue emissions and focus on the things that are most useful. When it comes to air cams and such, one can look at the emissions from domestic flights in Sweden and compare with truck traffic in Sweden and just look at the emissions from when truck drivers drive too fast. We can see that these emissions represent half of the emissions from domestic aviation. If we can get to the emissions from trucks with electric roads and other things we should focus on. We cannot look at just one mode of transport, but we must look at where we should focus in order to have the greatest possible impact. I still maintain that the Left Party does not take on knowledge of the technological developments that can actually solve our problems in the future.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-257	Madam President, I would like We're there again. There is always someone else who is going to reduce emissions. Now it was the heavy transports, the trucks. I very much agree that we need to reduce emissions there too. It would be great if we could make sure that people followed the speed limits that we have, but it is a bit difficult to just make magic so that it becomes so. But now we're talking about the flight. The world's climate scientists agree that the next ten years, Madam President, are crucial if we are actually to save this planet from an escalating and very, very dangerous climate change. Then I note that the Liberals continue to insist that at some point in the future we have the perfect techno-fix that will solve this. That's why you say, "Sit still in the boat!" Fly on, it's not a problem, we can continue as before! We don't buy it. We say that we have to change our way of life, and we need political decisions for this. We need to make it more expensive to fly, and we control the money to the natural alternative that is the train. The tax exemption of the fuel used in aviation is unreasonable and completely unacceptable. We can't have that. We should not continue to subsidise airports without regional reasons. We need to charge higher flight taxes from the super pilots, that is, those who fly a lot. Then we can also reduce the flight there. I note that last year's flight actually declined for the first time ever in Sweden. It would well point to the fact that it is actually possible to act politically in order to reduce emissions from the aviation sector. I would like us to be able to bring the Liberals more clearly into that policy and that they should not just talk as one-sidedly about techno-fixes as I think they do.
i-LbiakjDqG84FovCFKGkEhA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Jens Holm! In your speech you asked developing questions about the January agreement, and in particular paragraph 32 related to aviation and the climate impact of aviation, which the Center Party has been involved in. Let us note, Madam President, that aviation provides accessibility and the opportunity for people all over the country to be part of the welfare building. That, in my view, and the Center Party, is a prerequisite for why we look at aviation at all. To answer Jens Holm's question about what the January agreement means, I will repeat just that. It should reduce the climate impact of aviation but not reduce flying by definition. This should mean a mandatory climate declaration when buying flights so that me and others who buy flights can choose the right climate perspective. This means that Sweden will take a leading role internationally to renegotiate the agreements and conventions that today make aviation as well as shipping tax-free because they are international and global modes of transport. The agreement provides for the introduction of a mandatory increase in the involvement of renewable fuel, and the application of environmentally responsible take-off and landing charges. This means that the aviation fuel tax will take over the airline tax, or the ticket tax, and it also means good and increased investment in domestic production of renewable non-fossil fuel. I have to say, Madam President, that it is a really good step forward that the Center Party and the Liberals have taken together with the government in order to get to what is troubling. What is Jens Holm really against? Is it aviation as a phenomenon, or does Jens Holm really want to reduce its emissions?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-265	Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party are not against any of these proposals. The problem is, it's not enough. We can take the compulsory involvement as an example. It has already been investigated by Maria Wetterstrand. At best, it will reduce emissions by 24% by 2030. We know that the entire transport sector must reduce its emissions by at least 70%. It's just one example. A mandatory declaration on emissions from flights when you buy a plane ticket may be able to dilute the air shaft that Helena Gellerman is talking about. It is not a bad thing to see how big the emissions are, but it is not a strong means of controlling precisely to reduce emissions. We have been exercising in the Left Party in a long time. In this case, they're going to take out the flight tax that exists today, and then it's going to be a little plus minus zero. It's not gonna have a huge effect. Internationally pushing the issue of removing aviation tax exemption is a very good thing, Anders Åkesson. I have really tried to cave in on the details of this because the ICAO annual meeting will take place at the end of September this year. Then we would like the Swedish Government to have a clear and clear strategy for this, but we do not. We even have people on the board of the ICAO now, but I do not hear anything about Sweden actually seriously pushing the issue of the tax exemption being removed. Madam President, we need many more sharp measures to seriously reduce aviation emissions if we are to save this planet from dangerous and uncontrollable climate change. There I would like the Center Party to have clearer proposals to make.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-270	Madam President, I would like I note that the Center Party has made many, if not all, of the points raised by Jens Holm and the Left Party as important nowadays appear in a cooperation document between the Center Party, the Liberals and the Government. They are registered and must be implemented. It'll be a workshop. Madam President, I would like We can devote our whole lives to standing in Parliament and saying what we want, but if we never do that, we will not save the climate. I have noted that Jens Holm likes paragraph 32 of the January Agreement. I am pleased, because then Jens Holm will be able to express it in the further work of the committee. In addition to the January agreement, Madam President, the Centre Party has exactly the same expectations on aviation as on other modes of transport that technological development, business incentives and behaviour, in addition, will make a very strong contribution to a shift in the right direction. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to point out that the agreement states that the air tax is to be exchanged for an aviation fuel tax. Only that, Madam President and Jens Holm, will be a very strong incentive to produce aircraft types and air services that are very fuel-efficient. Today, the flight tax is a straight tax on the passenger seat of the aircraft, regardless of whether the aircraft itself is powered by kerosene or birchwood from Småland. It does not provide an incentive for conversion.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-274	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has been involved in implementing concrete measures to reduce emissions from the aviation sector. We saw last year how aviation emissions actually decreased for the first time in a couple of decades. The Left Party was involved in pushing the air tax through when the Center Party and other bourgeois parties voted against. A fairly united scientific community says that air tax has played a role in reducing emissions from the aviation sector. We want to move forward and have a series of further sharp measures to reduce emissions from the aviation industry. We do not believe that we can only talk about developing new technologies, but also political decisions are needed to reduce flying and shift passenger flows from aviation to the sustainable alternative, that is, the train. I wish the Center Party could be much clearer than it has been so far. What, for example, does the Center Party think about the proposed expansion of Arlanda and that the number of departures from there should double by 2040? If aviation is allowed to expand so greatly, we can forget to achieve our climate goals. There is something on the bourgeois side that I think is a little cowardly about the climate issue. We use fine words about reducing emissions, but we are not afraid to say that someone must also contribute to these reductions in emissions. Until we have the perfect technology and the perfect fuel, we need to fly less. That is what we in the Left Party are putting forward, because that is what is needed now if we are to get to grips with this.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-278	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for a committed speech. It's always fun with people who are passionate about what they say. What was said is also a little exciting, Madam President: put down Bromma, stop Arlanda and impose all-gender tariffs and charges. All sorts of things would be introduced. I like to read history – that's what I am amused with when I don't have anything else to do – and I got a bit of a sense of the 19th century. About the knitting machine down in Borås, they said: I don't think anything's going to happen. It will ruin everything! ..................................................... I must say that as a bourgeois politician I am somewhat more technology-positive. I share the view that there is a problem with aviation. However, I do not share the view that it is as large as it sounds in the debate. I remember correctly about 2% of CO2 emissions in the European context are on the airside. In the Swedish context it is about 3 percent. That is not where we are going to change the development that we share our concerns about. In this country, we have individual factories that emit more. We have vehicle transport that emits more. With the help of technology, we made major changes when many of the municipalities built up combined heat and power plants. Electrification of our major roads would have a far greater effect than penalising the countryside. I understand the question when you make a bit of fun of a show and a bohusman talking about Bromma. But this is no wonder. Because it's our airport. It is we who need it much more than Stockholm, and therefore we are happy to defend Bromma.
i-9SH5uAbnNFEaQCg67GkCbK	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister of Vietnam and his delegation to the Swedish Parliament. Heartily welcome!
i-f8352389a88e7d89-283	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson speaks of 2 – 3 percent, but then he has not counted on the total climate impact from aviation, the so-called high altitude effect. There's more environmental impact from aviation than just the climate, and this Bromma comes in. It is an airport located in the middle of town, which causes an incredible amount of noise and local emissions to people living here in Stockholm and, above all, makes the construction of some 30 000 new homes in Stockholm impossible. There is a plan for a brand new eco-city where Bromma airport is today. Today there are routes from Bromma to Gothenburg, Malmö and Sundsvall. These are places where you can take the train very easily today. For me, it is quite incomprehensible that today, 2019, one stands and defends a large airport in the middle of our capital city. In addition, Magnus Jacobsson, like previous replicators, thinks that someone else should take responsibility. Now, apparently, we are going to build electric highways instead of reducing emissions from aviation. But, Madam President, we must do both. We must work in all areas to prevent an escalating and very dangerous climate change. In order to reduce emissions from this sector, we therefore need to reduce overall flying. If we do not do so and if the curve continues in the course that it has historically had, aviation alone will account for greater emissions than all other sectors together here in Sweden. I am surprised that the Christian Democrats do not want to take responsibility for the future of our children and grandchildren and seriously reduce emissions from aviation.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-287	Madam President, I would like I don't really know how to express myself. I think I have tried to make it clear that we Christian Democrats believe that these are the very problems we should solve, namely environmental emissions and, to some extent, congestion. But we should not punish a well-functioning transport system. On the contrary, we argue that rail and air transport should often be co-located. That is why we at home think it is important for Landvetter to have a railway connection. We argue in favour of having a more efficient railway that allows you to meet this and even reduce flights on shorter distances. But that is not the problem. Madam President, I would like The Left Party here highlights so many arguments and so many techniques to knock out Swedish aviation. This means that the future technological development to which we are in favour, such as electric aircraft, biofuels and, in the long term, even hydrogen, will never happen unless there is even a market because such a market is taxed off or closed off. This brings us back to the Bromma problem. I am well aware that Stockholm needs more housing. Many municipalities in Sweden need more housing. But this applies to us in the countryside, that is, the countryside that lies slightly outside the vicinity of the bikes. If our villages, communities and villages are to grow, Bromma is actually important. I understand, Madam President, that a discussion of this can arise between people moving in Stockholm and us moving a little outside Stockholm. But Bromma is an extremely important airport for me as a resident. It is again, I think, about a difference in view of time. I am absolutely convinced that the development of technology will be here quite soon.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-292	Madam President, I would like I'm pretty sure this is going to work out soon. What if we could solve all the difficult problems that way? That is not the case, Madam President. We don't have enough biofuels for the whole flight. We don't even have the biofuels here today. Electric flights are well ahead, and most serious researchers who have looked at this talk about shorter distances with smaller aircraft. We need to act here and now. It is what the children who strike on Fridays say to us, every Friday: Take responsibility for how you live and hand over a planet to us that we can also live good lives on! Until we find the amazing tech fix, we'll have to talk about how to reduce flying. Then we need a differentiated flight tax. We need to remove the aviation tax exemption. We're gonna stop subsidising airports. We cannot expand Arlanda in the way that has been proposed. Instead, we must invest in the options available for aviation, first and foremost the train. It is not at all technologically hostile in any way, I think, but it is to see the truth as it looks. There are fantastic alternatives to the flight. You don't actually have to fly wherever you're going, especially here in Sweden.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-296	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with report TU15 on aviation issues. These are matters that are important for Sweden as a country but also for our citizens. That aviation concerns people, I became aware when I was assigned this area in my parliamentary group. Citizens get in touch with me in many different ways – e-mails, letters and telephones. It is a divided group that is in touch, Madam President, from those who want to stop the flight completely to those who think that we should fly as much as we can. As we have heard in the debate, we, too, in the Committee on Transport, have some different approaches to aviation issues. I think we should have a future-oriented entrance to the flight. We are beginning to see reports that aviation is declining for a variety of reasons. Now it is also up to us in politics to find the answers to the challenges, especially in the field of climate change. People will need to fly even in the future. It is therefore important that we take these issues very seriously. I like to listen to the aviation industry, but I also like to listen to environmental movements. We must see aviation as part of total travel, not just as a mode of transport. One should easily be able to take the flight without feeling guilty about it. The aviation industry must find the answers to how to fly in the future. Whether it is biofuels or electricity or a combination of these is not a big issue. The most important thing is that we have answers to the questions. The policy should do its part to ensure that the rules of the game are as clear as possible, but the aviation industry should also do its part to achieve the goals set by the policy. According to the so-called January agreement, Sweden will push for aviation to assume its responsibility for the global environmental impact, but we will also provide incentives for those who use more environmentally friendly fuel alternatives. Madam President, I would like There are also others who contact me, especially those who work in the aviation industry. They are concerned about the social dumping that is taking place in the aviation industry. It is also one of the issues that concerns me. Although some of these issues are at European level, we can send out signals from this Chamber that it is not good for competition to be so distorted and that we see the issue of fair conditions of competition and social responsibility as fundamental to the functioning of the European Union. Madam President, I would like One of the other issues involving many people, including us politicians, is the issue of regional airports. I think it applies to every airport in Sweden that one of the MPs has exercised about it and written how important that particular airport is. And regional airports are important for regional development. We shall ensure that regional airports also contribute to regional development. The airport review to be submitted this summer may provide us with answers to some questions, especially about how ordinary travellers and business travellers can move between different places in Sweden efficiently, quickly and environmentally friendly. We have and will continue to have domestic flights, but as we rebuild and rebuild, we make sure that trains travel also takes place. We will be able to get to different places in Sweden faster without flights, but to other places we will always need flights. The EU's current investigation into airport aid concerns many airports in Sweden. It is also important that we give the answer that we should continue to provide support where it is really needed for the whole of Sweden to not only live but also grow. Madam President, I would like It is of the utmost importance that we in Sweden lead the development in this area. Innovations are incredibly important. They create faith in the future and secure jobs. Why should the next air travel revolution not come from Sweden? Small, environmentally friendly plans produced here would be a good thing for Swedish development. Nevertheless, developments are moving in that direction. It's about flying under 50 chairs that might take us a hundred miles. More and more are coming out. It could also be a solution for regional airports in need of less and cheaper flights. This was also noted by the SRF during the visit to the Transport Committee. Madam President, I would like Usually when we talk about aviation and aviation, we think of people who are going to fly somewhere, but the flight is not just for travelling to the holiday paradise. The flight is also important for goods and services to come to us. It is important when a heart is to be flown from Karlstad to Sahlgrenska for transplantation. Air travel is important when we move seriously ill people quickly between our hospitals or somewhere in Europe. It has been clearly demonstrated how important our airports were in last year's fires. The sea rescue does not reach all places in Sweden from a single point. We need the regional airports, so that the whole of Sweden can be reached quickly when rescue takes place. In the forthcoming review, it is important for all air teams to have room, so that we can make wise and balanced decisions on how Sweden's regional airports will operate in the future. Madam President, I would like I also want to strike a blow because more and more drones are starting to fly in our airspace. They are important for the future. We know that railway is being inspected with them. Even when searching for fires and people who have disappeared, drones are used today. All these different air transport operations need to be located at any airport or co-exist in the airspace that exists in Sweden. The committee has previously pointed out that drone-related issues have been given too little space in the aviation strategy presented by the government and that there is a need to put a clear focus on developments in the drone area, so that the positive aspects that the technology brings with it should not be put at risk, while also taking into account various safety aspects. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the proposal of the Transport Committee in TU15 and reject all reservations.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-306	Madam President, I would like It is good that Denis Begic and the Social Democrats listen to the environmental movement and others involved in this issue. It's important. What we have heard from Swedavia, for example, is that you have a forecast for a double flight to and from Arlanda. If people are expected to fly twice as much by 2045, there are quite a few of us who are afraid that we will certainly not be able to keep our climate commitments. When you read the government's aviation strategy you can see that the government at p. 18 leans towards a forecast of a double flying to and from Arlanda. There is talk of a fourth runway, more parking and, in short, that flying can go up from 25 million travellers as today to 50 million travellers in 2045. I would like to know: do the Social Democrats believe that we should expand Arlanda in such a way as to expand a capacity for a double flight to and from Arlanda?
i-CmFdoWQ6EdWkyZbZfM7TJz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for your question! I think we need to look at all kinds of transport we have. We spend an incredible amount of money on having good regulars. We will ensure that, on the routes where trains can compete, they will also compete with aviation. In this way, flights may even be reduced. As has already been mentioned, I have great respect for what the aviation industry is currently doing and trying to do by reducing its emissions as well as for the technology that is entering. Nor do I want to anticipate what will happen when the Arlanda Council finds out exactly what we could do. One of the things discussed is to close down Bromma and expand Arlanda to meet the needs. Let us not anticipate everything at once. Let's see what the Arlanda Council has to say to us and see if, through the investments we make on public transport and rail travel, we manage to reduce air travel at least on short distances and long distances in Sweden. We are already seeing results from France, for example, where lines are being closed because trains have been expanded. That is what we want to achieve.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-312	Madam President, I would like That's why it surprises me a little bit that the government in its aviation strategy on p. 18 is taking to heart the forecast of double flying to and from Arlanda. Denis Begic can tell the next time he meets the environmental movement that the government is prepared to expand Arlanda for up to 50 million passengers. I don't think the environmental movement will be happy to hear it. Something we can probably agree on is that if you plan for such a powerful flight, our climate commitments will not be able to keep. We must dare to say that we need to fly less. There I fully agree that we will make the investments that Denis Begic is on with new main tracks, high-speed trains and the like. That's where the focus should be. At the same time, if you invest in a double flying, such bets will be thwarted. Is it really the policy of the Social Democrats that we should take heights for a double flying to and from Arlanda?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-315	Madam President, I would like I would like to say once again that there are several different things that need to be done. Anders Åkesson has mentioned our item 32 in the January agreement. There is talk of doubling travel. It is important to look at what we in Sweden can do to reduce climate impact. I do not think the solution is that we do not have Arlanda and that everyone goes by train to Copenhagen and flies from there. Environmental impact sees no boundaries. The environment will be affected even if people fly from Copenhagen instead of from Arlanda. However, we at Arlanda have control over which approaches are made and which fuel is mixed in. We do not have that in Denmark. We are not a Danish government. It is therefore important what types of transport we have. I would also like to answer a question put by Jens Holm in his speech. This is the ICAO issue. I know that the government has already begun the impact campaign to introduce fuel tax. The first step is, of course, the EU to influence the countries that exist in the EU. That is why I mention competition. It is important that Sweden does so and then this autumn try to influence the rest of the world and start introducing it. It is when we introduce taxes on aviation fuel that we will see the real reduction in the environmental impact of the aviation industry.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-318	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to endorse the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations so that I have done so. Self-appointed accident prophets, that is what I would call those who condemned the airline tax and said it would have no effect. Now we have the truth. What the accident prophets missed is that the financial incentive has an effect. Not least, and I think that is very important, we made sure that we started an important debate in society when we introduced a flight tax. It is about the climate impact of aviation and how potent aviation is as a method of frying our planet. Madam President, I would like This debate has led to a variety of initiatives. As a result, more people are now demanding trains to the continent, train holidays and Facebook groups. It has led to what is called air cams and a series of things that are incredibly important for us all to know about the climate impact of aviation and be able to reduce it. They are also demonstrably wrong, you see when you look at the numbers. Now, finally, trends are changing. Finally, we can now see that the flight is falling. The first quarter of this year was minus 378 000 passengers. Compared to the first three months of last year, we are talking about a 4.5% reduction in air travel from Swedish airports. As recently as a few hours ago came the announcement that Umeå Airport is putting the expansion that was planned on ice precisely because of the decrease. That's very good news. At the same time, we see that trends at the other end are also reversing. Instead, rail transport is now growing strongly. It's incredibly positive. Madam President, I would like The reason I'm talking about reduced flying is because I'm not naive enough to blindly rely on technology development. I'm basically a tech optimist. But technology cannot overpower physical laws. It's important to understand. Gravity, energy needs and high altitude effects mean that technology development may at most be able to frustrate the very disastrous climate figures that aviation has today. Nature's laws mean that aviation will hardly ever be completely sustainable, and above all not for the foreseeable future. That might sound pessimistic. But we can't stand here in the pulpit and lie. These are simply facts. For example, we can look at energy needs, how much energy you need to use and how energy efficient something is. In the past, we have heard here in the speaker's chair that aviation would be resource efficient. That sounds absurd. You can compare the flight with the railway. It's really banal knowledge. Think of the energy needed to lift so many tons up in the air in relation to moving something on the ground, iron to iron, where a locomotive takes the whole air resistance and the other wagons just follow. There are huge differences in energy needs and energy efficiency. Then comes a rather uncomfortable fact: Airplane technology development has not gone fast. We need to understand this. For example, one can look at the research that researcher Stefan Gössling is doing. He notes that, since 1994, there has not been a single major technological leap in aviation to reduce aviation emissions – not a single technological leap. Despite a lot of articles here and there about new initiatives, it can only be said that technology development is going far too slow. There is a certain amount of energy efficiency going on, but it is going too slowly. This leads me to the conclusion I have reached: that flying must be reduced. We can't just believe in technology. Members from other parties have today more or less just talked about technology, as long as they have not talked about direct subsidies for flights. Most people on the right seem to want us to subsidise more. We're going to remove the airline tax and so on. Wake up, colleagues! We're in the middle of a climate crisis. Then we cannot support by public means the most effective and quickest way to fry the planet. That's not good enough. It's not okay. But let me get to some of the solutions that we still have ahead of us, which are possible. First of all, it is gratifying to say that MP has obviously negotiated a very offensive reform agenda to reduce aviation emissions. Now we are going to introduce a mandatory climate declaration. It is something that we know has an effect on consumption and that can contribute to the important debate that we have, which is about the climate impact of aviation. We shall now have compulsory incorporation of sustainable fuel. That will be part of the solution. It will not dominate, but it will be part of the solution when it comes to meeting and improving climate figures. We're going to have landing fees that are more differentiated. Here we will see what is practicable, given international agreements. But one should at least be able to look at a congestion aspect, which I think is missing today. It is nonsense to say that we need to expand airports when, in fact, it is use that needs to be more efficient and more market oriented. One cannot believe that an airport has a capacity shortage just because it hits the capacity ceiling for two hours a day. You have to be a little smarter than that and think, "Let's smudge out the departures during the day." The last is to renegotiate global agreements. It is, of course, a very good policy, and it is something that the Green Party has been running for a long time. But we shouldn't fool ourselves. It is not on the record that we should be able to introduce a global tax on fuel. It's as simple as that. In the long term, we may be able to do so, but unfortunately we do not have enough of them now. That's why the airline tax is a must. I now go beyond what we have negotiated in the government: for us, the Green Party, it is self-evident that we must also raise it. Stefan Gössling's research indicates that technology development is too slow. As far as fuels are concerned in general, he says: if airline tickets are to have a reasonable chance of reaching about the same cost as what we have the petrol tax for, for example, one must at least triple the ticket costs. Finally, I would like to round off by thanking all of you out there who are taking part in the debate on aviation. It is absolutely crucial for us to cope with the climate crisis that we jointly reduce flying. It is now happening quite quickly. It is a sharp reduction in flying, and it is very much because of you out there who are debating and talking about the possibilities of train holidays and all the positive things that can come instead of flying. But I would also like to say: remember that politics is needed in this! We need to increase the flight tax. We need to take a series of policy measures to squeeze those who do not voluntarily choose to reduce their flying. And here you have the Green Party, which stands up in the government and parliament for a radical aviation policy.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-336	Madam President, I would like I agree with Mr Lorentz that this is a very important debate. Many thanks to Greta Thunberg and all the school strikers, who have really forced us adults to act on the issue of reducing emissions! I have two questions for Mr Lorentz. The first concerns the agreement you have reached with the Liberals and the Center Party. We heard Anders Åkesson from the Center Party talking about item 32. He said that it was about reducing the climate impact of aviation, not a reduction in flying. But Lorentz Tovatt talked, as we in the Left Party usually do, about the fact that we actually need to reduce flying if we are to reduce climate impact. What's going on in the 73-point program? Is it reduced climate impact, or is it reduced flying? The second issue concerns the Government's aviation strategy. There one leans against forecasts from Swedavia, which speaks of a double flight from Arlanda Airport in 2045. Lorentz can probably agree with us in the Left Party that it would be totally untenable to plan for an expansion of Arlanda airport for about 50 million passengers annually. I would like to know what applies to the Green Party. Does the Green Party support Arlanda being able to double its flight capacity until 2045?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-341	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! We can start with what the January Agreement regulates. Of course, it regulates what it says, i.e. that the climate impact of aviation should be reduced. Then you can land in various conclusions about what is needed for this to happen. I and Anders Åkesson may land in different conclusions, but I land in this conclusion: If the climate impact of aviation is to be reduced, we must also reduce the flight itself, because these two things are of course very closely connected because aviation is fossil-dependent. It's going to be a little bit hard to say: Yes, we're going to reduce the climate impact of aviation, but we're not going to reduce flying. Then you don't understand how it's connected. That is my conclusion on what is stated in the January agreement. Then there is the flight strategy. I note that Jens Holm has changed the rhetoric a little about this after a few shifts that we had on Twitter. Jens Holm has previously said that the government itself would have expressed a desire to double air traffic from Arlanda. The government has not done so, but the government has established that Swedavia has such forecasts. It's not the same as saying you want to. It is clear to the Green Party that doubling the capacity at Arlanda is not sustainable. That, of course, is our entrance. So far, the government has said nothing but that.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-344	Madam President, I would like I note that paragraph 32, with which Mr Lorentz was so pleased in the January agreement, is not about reduced flying. I think I heard wrong then when Lorentz Tovatt talked about reduced flying and linked it to that particular agreement, because it is a reduced climate impact. That is also why so much pressure is being put on climate declaration, labelling and such things. It is great that the Green Party as a party wants to promote reduced flying, because that is how we reduce emissions seriously. But then I think you need to find other collaborations than that with the Liberals and the Center Party. I don't really remember. I honestly write a lot on Twitter, and I think Lorentz Tovatt does too. What I have probably said all along is that the government's aviation strategy talks about the need for Arlanda to expand. For this purpose, a Arlanda Council has been set up in which the Green Party, as we know, has had members. What has happened to this Arlanda Council now I do not know, but in the Government's aviation strategy on p. 18 it is clear that Arlanda will expand. One leans against the forecast from Swedavia, which speaks of a double travel to 2045. When I asked the responsible minister, Minister for Climate Change Isabella Lövin of the Green Party, she said that it is now high time to produce new forecasts. I think that sounds excellent, so my question is simply: Do we need to produce new forecasts visvi Arlanda, or could it be that the Environmental Party thinks it is okay to double flying to and from Arlanda?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm! Now there are two different debates that we have here, and in addition, it is mainly semantic issues that Jens Holm comes up with. The first is about reduced flying versus reduced climate impact. I note that if the climate impact of aviation is to be reduced, we will have to reduce flying. It is a line that is fully consistent with what is stated in the January agreement. One such thing as a climate declaration is intended to discourage air travel and can therefore reduce air travel, so there are several things that can lead to both reduced climate impact and reduced flying. I believe, of course, that one presupposes the other. As far as the authorities that produce forecasts are concerned, I think it will be a somewhat strange discussion. I find it very difficult to see that the government could go in and correct forecasts that the responsible authorities produce. It is probably quite a long way from the government's powers, not least if you are to stay away from what is called ministerial rule. This is, of course, the order in which we have, for example, the Finnish Transport Agency, which is responsible for the production of forecasts for road traffic and for the railways. Then the government has to act on the forecasts and make decisions. Most governments usually do. For example, most governments tend to believe that just because forecasts say we will drive more cars, we also need to build more roads. However, this government has not yet said that we should act on the forecasts that Swedavia has produced, but it notes that there are forecasts that are saying that flying will increase. But the government actually has a policy that aims to the contrary, that is to keep flying in check or even reduce it, which is a good example of this. So well-- this is going to be a semantic, weird discussion that doesn't contribute much.
i-MUkUGRjZk5CHeMZmjbzbNy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lorentz, for your speech. Lorentz Tovatt is quite right that the domestic flight is folding. Why is that? It is possible that the airline tax may have affected with increased prices. But above all, Madam President, it is because we had a very large strike in Swedish domestic flights only recently, that we have a cyclical change underway in our country and that routes have been shut down in weak destinations because the air tax has made the price per seat so high. The concern with this, Madam President, is that the people who live in those destinations, often far from the reality in which Lorentz Tovatt lives here in Stockholm, have no alternative in carrying out a day's work in Stockholm or in getting out into the world. We have reduced people's accessibility by a particularly inefficient tax resource – i.e. air tax – if it was the climate we wanted. The January agreement contains a number of very good points. Point 32 is clear and very much after the influence of the Center Party. There is a very clear black-and-white message, Madam President: the climate impact of aviation should be reduced. However, it does not say, Madam President, that flights should be reduced. It is possible that aviation is reduced as an effect of this, but it is not an end in itself that the means of transport flight should be reduced. It is its climate impact that is to be reduced, i.e. a completely different entry into the question than the one that Lorentz Tovatt presents from the Parliament's pulpit. I would therefore like to ask Lorentz Tovatt, the representative of the Green Party in this debate: Is the Green Party against aviation as a mode of transport regardless of its climate impact? Are you against aviation as a mode of transport even if its climate impact is zero? I get that impression.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-359	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson! First of all, I will only correct Anders Åkesson in two respects. One is that the air strike came after the figures were presented. This is about the first quarter; the air strike came later. The second is that lines move to and from Sweden. Since the introduction of the air tax, certain routes have left Sweden, while others have been added. It is quite obvious that air tax is at least an important part of the reduction in aviation, and I therefore think that Anders Åkesson is talking the effects away. I have a supplementary question to Anders Åkesson, which is about reducing flights and reducing climate emissions from flights. Now we are in an acute climate crisis. In Mozambique, thousands have died in the spring as a result of the worst storm ever recorded in the southern hemisphere. This is very serious, and then you can have different attitudes to politics. I believe that the policy must try to reduce emissions very drastically as quickly as possible. This leads me to conclude, among other things, that the technology used by aviation is now completely incompatible with our climate targets. In my introduction, I have explained that we are not there. To say then that aviation emissions can be reduced in the near future thanks to new technologies is anti-scientific, Madam President. Therefore, my supplementary question will be back to Anders Åkesson : Given that we are in an acute climate crisis, is it bad that the flight is reduced?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-365	Madam President, I would like It is enough for me to return the climate debate to Sweden, Lorentz Tovatt. I come from south-eastern Sweden where climate impact is evident with water scarcity, misgrowth, forest death and more as a result. Welcome down and study the effects on occasion! Study also the effects of reduced flight opportunities in the south-east and other parts of the country, such as the reduced accessibility that it entails for people living and living their lives there. Life, Madam President, is not a part but a whole. Transport is from door to door, sometimes including air, sometimes rail. I repeat the question to Mr Lorentz which he so carefully avoided with his trip down to Mozambique, which is probably so serious. My question to which I would like an answer is: Is Lorentz Tovatt and the Green Party against flights as modes of transport regardless of its climate impact? In that case, Madam President, nothing helps in the form of new fuels, new ways of flying, technological development and a combination of means of transport. Then the plane will never be able to deliver. I think Tovatt should answer that question. Finally, the Arlanda Council, where the Green Party is actually part of it, is quite horrendous to come up with an end result. This means, in concrete terms, that the fuel saved on green flights between Kalmar and Arlanda, for example, is wasted while lying and spinning around in the air or on the slopes at Arlanda, because you cannot handle the capacity at peaks.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-369	Madam President, I would like I don't know how many times you have to repeat the technical facts in order for it to go into the head of a center party. It's amazing when we're standing here talking about the climate! First, Anders Åkesson says that the issue of climate is very serious. Then he says that accessibility is very important. These are two things that can resist each other, but it cannot be taken in by a center party. It is not possible for a center party to understand that accessibility can withstand climate. But that is exactly what it is doing today, and that is why I am saying that aviation must be reduced – not because it is against aviation by definition or as technology, but because it is currently fossil-dependent. There is no technology today that can reduce the climate impact of aviation in the near future. That's why we need to reduce flying. Those are facts. Year after year, I have debated against Anders Åkesson and others on the right and tried to raise the technical facts that we are facing. Time and again, it doesn't come in. I don't know how long I'm gonna have to do that to change the rhetoric. It is simply the case, black and white, that if we do not reduce flying, we will not succeed in reducing emissions from aviation enough to achieve the climate goals that we have all supported and that we have to cope with in order to prevent an escalating and very dangerous climate crisis.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-373	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we are focusing on the climate in terms of transport as they affect the climate objectives most. I take the same approach as Mr Lorentz, namely that we must achieve our climate targets. That is why, in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, when the Climate Council came to visit, I raised the question of whether we are using our 700 billion properly to achieve the climate targets. However, I wonder how the Green Party can say that a few hundred extras at a cost of 20 000 for a family wishing to fly to the Canary Islands would prevent them from going there. I don't believe that those hundreds are crucial. I rather believe that there is a discussion in society about the climate, and that is what makes people choose instead to ride trains within Sweden or out in Europe – because today it is not possible to offer a climate-neutral flight. Before I entered Parliament last autumn, I worked in the automotive industry. I have been there when the electronics took over and it became much better functions in the cars. It took ten years. Just before I entered Parliament, I worked on self-driving cars. Eight nine years ago, they didn't talk about self-driving cars. Self-driving cars exist today, but they were a utopia ten fifteen years ago. Let us look at the 2030 climate target and current developments, and then we can look at the investment made with batteries for cars.
i-WE2Kgxaxdq4ZD5yV52VLzK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Gellerman, for the questions and commitment! I share the basic view that a few hundred quid may not play such a big role. What I was trying to demonstrate in my speech was that the introduction of the air tax itself has had a positive effect precisely on the discussion that has followed, which Helena Gellerman implicitly referred to in her reply. A tax has been introduced which has resulted in many discussions. As a result, alternatives to flying have begun to be looked at. That's why the train holiday group has grown so big. This also applies to the whole debate that has followed on air traffic cams and the climate impact of aviation as a whole. I think they are interrelated, and the aviation tax was an important starting point for this debate. Having said that, I think, like Helena Gellerman, that it is not enough, but I think that we need to increase air tax so that there is a significantly higher cost. There are different calculations. Stefan Gössling believes that it must be at least three times as expensive if it is to reflect the requirements of road transport. The Nature Conservation Association has also calculated this and believes that there should be strong increases in the costs for them to actually pay for the entire climate impact. I share Helena Gellerman's commitment, and I hope for support for a higher aviation tax.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-381	Madam President, I would like My point in the discussion about technology is that I wonder why Lorentz Tovatt says he is in favour of technology because he says that electric flights are in the distant future. I get the impression, Madam President, that Lorentz Tovatt has not read about electric aircraft and batteries and how quickly that technology can be put in place. It is 12 years until 2030. Already there are electric flights, and in 2023 we can see planes that take 6 to 12 people and can fly up to 1,000 miles [1,000 km]. We can see a development where there may be aircraft for 50 people in 2027. Domestic flights could be operated on electric flights instead of fossil-using flights. The Center Party referred earlier to the fact that the Green Party really wants to abolish aviation. How does the Green Party think that people will be able to meet to agree on common measures to reduce climate impact if they cannot fly and meet?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-384	Madam President, I would like The flight will not be completely abolished. I do not have such hubris that I believe that the Green Party can influence the world's aviation market in this way. It is also not desirable for aviation to disappear completely, but it must be significantly reduced. I've explained the technical possibilities for continuing flying. I've been doing my homework on electric flights. I share the enthusiasm, and I also hope – like Helena Gellerman and also Anders Åkesson, who I know is enthusiastic about electric flights – that electric aircraft will develop in technology as soon as possible. But it's a matter of being a realist when it comes to electric airplanes. The first thing to know is that emissions from domestic aviation still account for a small proportion of total aviation emissions. In addition, I believe that electric flights are particularly suitable in areas in the world where it is not possible to build rail. Look at Norway with its fjords. There are good conditions for developing electric flights. I know Norway has started to bet on it. A country like Sweden has a well-developed railway and also the opportunity to build new railway routes. It may be pointless to have electric flights on most routes because it becomes inefficient energy compared to rail. It's about moving a ton of heavy body into the air, and it takes huge batteries, gets more expensive and so on. There are a number of technical aspects. I hope very much for the electric flight, but I am more realistic with my forecasts.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-388	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good speech, Mr Lorentz. I have often been concerned when I have listened to speeches by the Green Party. I feel that there is a strong focus on the reality that I believe people living in our major cities are experiencing. But there are quite a few of us in Sweden who do not really come from any of the major cities. My main criticism of the speech, Madam President, is not just about aviation in general. I share the view that domestic aviation affects less than international aviation, and international aviation is much more difficult to deal with with with technological developments because it is longer distances. The main criticism for me is about the view of domestic aviation. I note that yes, we can build more rail in Sweden and yes, we can develop public transport. But it will not be economically feasible or profitable, and it will not work everywhere. That is why we Christian Democrats are constantly highlighting the perspective of having to look at the different modes of transport separately. If you then have a strategy – as I see it, Madam President – to really reduce flying right now, it will also affect domestic aviation in the sense that fewer people fly. That is the very logic of reducing flying. Then we will not have the economic opportunity to make the necessary technological development. Unfortunately, this will not be replaced by more trains or more buses, because that is not what meets us at the long distances we have. I even notice on my way home to Uddevalla that there is actually no train at times. I'm forced to fly from Bromma to Trollhättan.
i-4wNeptg9SEjFGC3rqfH777	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for the questions! I believe that what is economically feasible, which is one of the reasons why Magnus Jacobsson prefers air transport to rail, depends on what political vision and will it has, as well as on technological development and such things. It will be strange if you just condemn the railway, which has served us for a long time and which we know how to build. We know how to lay rails. However, we do not yet know how, on a broad commercial basis, an electrified fleet can be expanded. We don't know that. Therefore, it is not true that it would be economically impracticable to invest more in the railways instead of investing very much in more flights in Sweden. I have a counter-question to Magnus Jacobsson. KD has some form of basic ideology about stewardship, about a steward's idea of animals and nature and people. That's very nice. It is quite close to the green basic vision of precautionary principles and that we should take advantage of ecosystems. Where is there management in heavily tax subsidies the fastest way to fry the planet? I didn't quite understand that. Why is it to manage our planet to tax what is absolutely the worst for the climate? It is already VAT-free and heavily subsidised, both at regional and national level. Why should it also be tax-exempt? I still find that hard to understand.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-395	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that question. In Christian democracy, when we talk about stewardship, we usually use a formula or a concept: it should be economic, ecological and social management. It's connected. That is what becomes my dilemma now that I am listening, Madam President. It is not that I, as a Christian Democrat, have in any way said that I prefer air transport to rail. I don't really prefer anything at all. Perhaps I prefer railway in such cases. That's what I myself usually use over longer distances, as often as I can, because I think it's pleasant and works well. I can work and so on. The problem is that rail does not work everywhere. That is not what Sweden looks like. Nor do we have the resources to expand the railways in any case, because it is not really as economically sustainable as one could imagine. It is also the case – it is the view of all of us who have worked as regional politicians – that when we develop the railways, which is positive, it tends to result in fewer stations to run quickly between the large urban centres. All the time, rural areas and rural areas are losing out on a metropolitan policy strategy. I look at that Green Party highlighting this in the debate and also in other contexts I see that there is more tax on cars and more tax on flights. It allows the industry to go relatively untaxed and does not deal, for example, with electrification of the truck fleet, which could have a really big impact on improving the environment. This makes the environmental policy of the Green Party – for which I commend you; I have great respect for it and even believe that you mean what you say – forgets the economic and social will to be ecological. We Christian Democrats are trying to capture all three perspectives. Then aviation also has a role to play, especially for those of us who need to come to Stockholm sometimes.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-402	Madam President, I would like I would ask everyone to take note of what Magnus Jacobsson said at the beginning of his second line here. It was that he does not prefer any mode of transport, that is, that he chooses not to favor rail or air. I think this is symptomatic. I think there is a picture within the Swedish right that you should never put technicians against each other. As long as they can be driven in theory sustainable, you should never pit them against each other. I think this is fundamentally wrong. We know, for example, that cycling is the most energy efficient mode of transport of all. It is therefore more energy efficient than walking. We know that a locomotive that has iron wheels against rails and pulls a train forward where all the wagons follow is incredibly much more energy efficient than flying. This leads me to the conclusion that it is clear as hell that we politicians should decide technology – within the framework, of course. It is clear that we need to be able to favour what is actually the energy-efficient or smartest in terms of resources, climate and the type of energy used. All this must be taken into account as politicians, and that is what we Greens are always trying to do. We have to assess each mode of transport on the basis of its merits and on the basis of what it threatens for social functions. We know that aviation is the mode of transport that today is the most potent of all to fry this planet. At least we think that there must be some measure of different treatment in every way possible, as we are doing today.
i-AV6oTN6AVUbFGEBempUDMY	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the premium pension scheme. I ask you to accept reservation 1. The Swedish National Audit Office's report seriously criticises the functioning of the premium pension system today. The reason why this is outrageous is that it is a matter of great values on which future pensioners will live. A significant proportion of our pension money ends up on the stock exchange of something called fundtorg. Internationally, it is rare for state security systems to be placed on a speculative market in this way. The Swedish National Audit Office points to the basic problem, namely that it is inappropriate for such a system to be compulsory. If you have money that you can imagine risking, you can make your own decision to place your money. But here all Swedes are forced to engage in risky fund choices with vital pension money. This also makes the fund square wide open for less well-calculated managers with exciting, lucrative business models, which earn a lot of money because they know that customers are not very interested or paying attention to the setup. For example, less than 1 per cent of us savers change fund despite greatly increased fees, the Swedish National Audit Office can show. Nor do we receive sufficient information about how we are affected by the different cost items or the way the fund companies manage our money. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that fund managers are not stupid. They adapt their fees to the current discount model and can instead charge high fees in other, for savers unfavorably, ways. There is no authority that closes off a company that has unfair fees. There is currently no ongoing evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of the system. The Swedish National Audit Office is quite clear that it is a very ineffective system. It is thus possible to achieve higher returns on our capital with passive index management. Even the Seventh AP Fund has received a much higher return than the Fund Square. The government itself replies in the letter that there is a great risk that savers will have to pay high contributions – money that is taken from our own pension – in relation to the value development we receive. The reason why the premium pension system is so in doubt is basically that general rights, such as pensions, for most people mean a few basic things: on the one hand, that they should cover everyone in such a way that everyone gets an acceptable level of pension, and on the other hand that individuals with the same income can expect similar pension outcomes. I mean, the pension does not achieve any of these things. For example, to draw a parallel, we have no fundtorg to determine whether I or my children should be allowed to go to school or whether I have the right to receive medical treatment if I have an illness. This is something that the public should guarantee. On the contrary, the pension is up to everyone. In this way, we are privatising the management of public pension funds, and there is an individualisation of the general pension. There is today a wide spread of returns between people with exactly the same income only depending on different management results and how successful they have been in different investment choices. This gives poor predictability, which is really built up by the premium pension scheme. No one knows what these funds will give in 30 to 40 years' time. If you want to do this, you can do so, for example, within the framework of occupational pensions, but this requires a safe and high level of public pension. All these unnecessary and high costs created by the Fund Square's construction, with a hundred and a hundred funds, could have gone to our own pensions. Everyone, both the Swedish National Audit Office and the Government, agrees that the premium pension system is unnecessarily costly. I believe that it is unacceptable for large values, which could have generated higher pensions, to be lost in profits to fund companies and insurance advisors. Today, there is great dissatisfaction with the entire pension system. Sweden has the most poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. An increasing number of young people say that they feel they need to start saving themselves because they do not think that the pension will be sufficient when they get older. Next year, the parties in the Pensions Group want to raise the retirement age, and in the long run, further age increases are expected. But for people with regular wages, the extra years will hardly be noticed in the wallet. For example, working for two extra years may add a hundred to a month for a nurse. It is therefore not enough to increase the retirement age. The pension system is giving too little money today. Most local authorities are still covered by basic protection, despite 50 years of work. The pension scheme should cease to be compulsory. For example, it should be possible to opt for income pension rather than premium pension savings in order to guarantee their money. When we create such great risks in our pension system, the least you can ask for is for the state to at least give some kind of guarantee that the premium pension money remains at the end, so that you do not happen to lose all your money after 45 years in the world of work. I think it is remarkable that we have such an obsessive speculation system in a state guarantee system. Other countries have not adopted this. I am surprised that other parties do not think that one should be able to choose to stand out. We have a pretty poor track of the endless number of fund companies in the fund square. There have been irregularities, such as when the finance company Allra took millions of dollars of our saved money to enrich themselves. With great probability there are many more companies with similar purposes. The Swedish National Audit Office points out in particular that the shortcomings in supervision lead to funds in the fund square being easily bought up by inappropriate fund managers. The pension scheme is an area where fund managers can attract capital in a short-term manner that is more difficult to implement in a regular fund market, partly because savings are mandatory and not voluntary. Supervision must therefore be strengthened and freedom of choice increased for savers through the removal of the obligation.
i-3WrN8nhErYNY5XGt1AKwED	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision on SfU14, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the management of the premium pension scheme. Sweden's premium pension scheme consists of approximately 800 funds that together manage SEK 1,200 billion. The main aim of the system is to generate maximum pensions for our future pensioners from the pension provision made during working life. Ordinary people should be able to put their money into funds without requiring prior knowledge to prevent them from choosing the right fund. The risk of the premium pension scheme is that low efficiency can generate low pensions, and we shall of course avoid this. An effective system must, of course, ensure that savers have access to good information about the various funds available. Since the premium pension scheme does not meet all the requirements and expectations we have today, a great deal of work has been started and carried out by the Government on behalf of the Pensions Group. The Swedish National Audit Office's review of the premium pension scheme was completed in December 2018. The audit was based on the private fund companies in the fund square, which last year managed about SEK 713 billion. It was concluded that current fund management is not comprehensive. The pension scheme can be more cost-effective. The pension authority's price reduction needs to be strengthened, as well as the information provided to pension savers. There is also a lack of clear responsibility for the supervision of premium pensions, as it is currently shared between the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The Government has taken a number of measures in recent years in accordance with the work of the Pensions Group. Two successive reforms are now taking place for a system based on security and higher future pensions. The Government's proposal A secure and more robust pension system, which applies from November 2018, means that fund managers who want to enter into fund agreements with the Pension Authority now have to apply to the Pension Authority. A new tendered fund square has been introduced with higher requirements for the fund companies that will operate in the fund square. Everyone must account for all of their costs in order to increase transparency. It was the first reform. The second reform to be introduced is the creation of a completely new authority that will carry out a further review of the fundtorg of the premium pension scheme. The Agency will be in place in September next year. An investigation is currently under way into the type of regulations that apply to the fund square within the premium pension. The report shall be presented on 1 November this year. In view of the government's progressive reforms to the premium pension system, the government considers that further investigations and measures should not be initiated regarding the requirements of the fund square or given new assignments to the Pension Authority regarding the cost-effectiveness of the fund square. Therefore, the Government considers that the Swedish National Audit Office's report has been completed. For us Social Democrats, it goes without saying that whatever pension you have, it should be safe and able to live on. Madam President, I would like Those players in the premium pension scheme who are tampering with our money or are rogue should not get away with it. They're not supposed to have a place in the system. Sweden's new procured premium pension scheme should be safe and secure, and the state should take greater responsibility there. As a saver, you shouldn't have to be a financial expert to end up with a good pension.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-435	Madam President, I would like I suspect that I am the only speaker at this point and that there will be no debate. It is that it is a united committee that is behind the bill. Madam President, I would like The responsibility rests heavily on those of us who are elected representatives today to take the necessary measures and steps to protect people, countries and water from harmful influences. Some are decided here in Sweden, and some are decided in the EU and then incorporated into Swedish legislation. What I am talking about today is based on an EU directive and is therefore to take effect immediately in Sweden. A unanimous Committee on the Environment and Agriculture is behind the Government's proposal 2018/ 19:95 Responsibility for environmental damage in Sweden's economic zone, and no motions have been raised on the basis of the bill. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 August 2019. Amendments to the Environmental Code and the Swedish Economic Zone Act are proposed in the bill. The changes mean that the environmental code will also apply to serious environmental damage in Sweden's economic zone. There is also a change in the environmental code that means that the person who on a property, building or installation must take a measure to according to Chapter 10. The environmental code shall remedy an environmental damage shall be entitled to access the property, building or facility for a specified period of time. Madam President, I would like I would particularly like to dwell on the latter in order to clarify what kind of changes we are talking about here today. As of 1 August 2019, it will thus be easier for the operator responsible for, for example, after-treatment of a property to de facto gain access to it and permission from the County Administrative Board to carry out his/her task in the event that the owner of the property conflicts. This may be obvious in a rule of law that Sweden has seen to what is actually at stake in these matters. However, the proposed changes give the responsible authorities a much clearer mandate on environmental damage. In short, the proposed changes are an adequate response to the legislative changes that have been requested to enable responsible authorities to act as far as possible effectively to protect us humans but also our valuable nature from harmful influences. Of course, it is also important to be able to counter this when the damage is already done. The proposed changes are important steps in an even better protection of our invaluable common habitats.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-440	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's Amendment No 1 to be approved in the report. According to both the January agreement and the previous drawing of napkins to the budget, the RUT grant is to be substantially increased, and what we are now seeing is a first step. Since this reform is a disaster in terms of distribution policy, the bourgeoisie must, of course, try to justify the benefit society to high-income earners and call it a deduction. I would like to make it clear that the Left Party is not opposed to domestic services. What we are opposed to is the tax subsidy of labour and the over-representation of those with high incomes in the part of the population using the RUT grant. Those who are maximizing the grant are also those who would undoubtedly be able to pay the full price for the services. This is not only unreasonable and unjust, but also a deeply provocative economic transfer. In practice, this means that a household with a single mother with low-paid jobs in, for example, Bergsjön will pay for a household with two high-paid people in a villa to have their home cleaned, or that Gällivare will pay for Stockholm and so on. This is what it looks like in the country: the RUT grant is most used in the wealthiest municipalities in the country, and it is not surprising – the richest people live there. The reform is thus so accurate in itself that those with high incomes are receiving ever greater subsidies. For us in the Left Party it is quite obvious that people who have a large income can pay for their private cleaning themselves. It is also quite absurd that low-income people should be involved in funding the cleaning aid of the middle and upper classes and, therefore, the distributional disaster. This increases economic disparities and goes against the real welfare commitment that I believe is our social responsibility. Instead, we could expand the home service by hiring more nurses who have time for the elderly, making sure that there are fewer children in preschool children's groups by hiring more preschool teachers or making sure there is room in a retirement home on the day there is a need for it. On the other hand, giving state tax vouchers to the houses in Danderyd and Vellinge is not really a welfare commitment that we have a social responsibility to make. Madam President, I would like You start to wonder if this is what the bourgeoisie means every time they talk about core tasks in the municipality or that the resources of welfare should go to those who really need them. The question arises as to whether it is something the rich can handle these days without receiving a tax contribution for it. Can they even move a vase at home, or is it something we need to take joint responsibility for? Call for a taxi car to Täby maybe they can handle it on their own, but then the assistant nurse will pay half the cost. The Moderates have proposed RUT grants for taxis as late as last autumn. Unfortunately, why low-income people should have more expensive public transport, while upper-class taxi passengers should have cheaper travel, was not reflected in that exercise, but that is, after all, their logic in economic policy. In fact, I believe that Moderates can go by taxi without receiving financial assistance for that. Madam President, I would like When the Moderates and Christian Democrats felt like running the budget last autumn, they did so on the grounds that there were so many challenges that could not really wait. They were so worried about Sweden that they could not wait for a new government. People around the country may have thought that it had to be because they wanted to improve the situation of low-income workers, the conditions of sick leave, the working conditions of the welfare worker or the situation of vulnerable children. But no – what was so life-threatening was to push through tax cuts for the already wealthy and, of course, even more RUT subsidies for those with high incomes. Unfortunately, however, there was not much left over after tax cuts and increased RUT subsidies. There was no money left to make life easier for sick and low income earners. Those who worked hard and worn themselves out and those who had to fight to get the rent got nothing. On the other hand, sedentary capital owners needed all the support of society so that they could continue speculating instead of working. As if the napkin drawing budget was not enough, the 73-point group that signed the January Agreement is now also proposing that the RUT grant be extended to include even more services. Nevertheless, I thought we would stop at the fact that the rich need financial assistance because they cannot even screw in a light bulb themselves, but obviously we will look at which companies pick up the mail when the villas are on vacation or water their flowers for them. This will now be investigated so that the 73-point gang can prioritise that those who can afford should be able to have so-called security guards between the houses on Lidingö. If you live big, you should also be able to get a grant to pay someone to move your furniture at home. This is a very distorted priority, I think. If you live so large that you have several floors, wings and everything it is called, it is likely that you can pay the full price if you are going to hire labor that moves around your piano at home. Why should you get a grant for that? Would it not be more reasonable to spend money on the homeless, who do not have the most basic needs met? The fact that our common tax funds are to go to luxury services for the already wealthy rather than to make life tolerable for the country's most vulnerable is a mockery and goes against all equality. But they get time left for other things, it's usually called. Yes, I believe that those who do the ministry also want time for other things and for their families. That is what is so provocative: money for more economic equalization obviously exists, but once again subsidies of the high-income people's lifestyle should take precedence. Once again, the bourgeoisie is showing the worst aspects of class society. I think you understand the basic problem of the RUT grant and what the whole concept is based on, but, as I remember – and as the citizens will probably put it in the speaker's chair – this would also make black jobs disappear and the work was carried out in white instead, within the framework of the tax system. Now it is difficult to bring into evidence that this is the case, but how, for example, an increase in security services would go together with the original motivation and do black jobs white is for me a riddle. For example, do we have a social problem with black watchers today? Do the rich security guards hire black so much that it needs to be covered by RUT and become white? What kind of alarm do the rich install for this to need to be covered by RUT later? I hope that the parties behind the January agreement will be able to respond to this. I suppose I can admit that I feel the same concern. After all, it is difficult to trust high income earners. In my municipality of Gothenburg, the bourgeois parties, led by the Moderates, think that they should knock on doors and check whether all those who live on support for various reasons have the right to do so. I think that we could perhaps impose similar controls on the rich. You can knock on the door and see if everything goes right and what kind of labor is in and between houses. Here we can also introduce auditors as tax fraud hunters, even if this is a completely different debate. But yes, perhaps we should even look at what compensation is needed for high wage earners to receive benefits? Then, of course, there are other specific problems about this. One big problem is that there are RUT companies that pay crappy wages and lie about collective agreements. With this reform, the same company is now receiving even more of the money that is leaking out of our common welfare. As recently as last year, DN did an audit of the RUT companies. Several claimed that they had collective agreements that gave employees wages in collective agreements, insurance and fair terms, but this proved to be a lie. In fact, many pay so little per hour and according to their annual report, staff costs are so low that it is impossible to meet the collective agreement requirements or the requirement of at least SEK 13 500 per month's salary that companies with non-European cleaners with a work permit promised the Migration Agency to meet. Wages down to SEK 12 per hour within home cleaning have been revealed by the government's ongoing inspections against unhealthy competition. This is very similar to the essence of capitalism: to exploit workers as much as possible. But it doesn't really end there. What is more distasteful is that this should be financed by our common tax resources. But perhaps the bourgeoisie would not have believed it today, because nothing has been sold in as rhetorical and good as the RUT grant. The Christian Democrats seemed to forget that this was a reform from Reinfeldt. They hailed it so much that it gave the impression that Gud did not even rest on the seventh day but then created a RUT contribution for the needy. Madam President, I would like Raising the roof of the RUT is a far from equal direction. Basically, it's about how we organize our society. The Left Party believes that a strong common welfare is necessary as a driving force in the work of an equal society. I have now lifted up and explained how distorted this reform is. It would be, as simple as it sounds, more reasonable to level the gaps and injustices than to redistribute money from ordinary people to the rich. Moreover, it is a waste of our common resources. We believe that these should be used to create jobs in welfare and to, for example, strengthen home care or social services in the country's municipalities, which actually need it. I think they need the money more than anyone who should have even more money to get their home cleaned. These people can actually pay for that themselves. If the citizens are now looking to demonstrate labour market measures, there is much to be done in the underfunded welfare which is left behind year after year because the rich need their tax cuts before Christmas. Finally, I should like to note that the impact assessment estimates that economic inequality will increase as a result of the proposal and that the employment impact of the reform is expected to be very limited. At the very least, it would be attractive for the bourgeois parties to be crystal clear that it is a more unequal society that we are on the way. I can also note that when we voted on the proposal to extend the RUT contribution, the Left Party was alone in voting against. We will always vote against proposals that make society more unequal, and we will always fight for more resources for common welfare. We are the party of equality, and the voters can trust that.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-465	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the report by the Committee on Taxation, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It will be a wonderful ideological debate! The deduction for domestic services – also called the RUT deduction, where RUT is an acronym for cleaning, maintenance and washing – has been a success from the beginning when it was introduced by the bourgeois government in 2007. And that is no wonder, because the objectives of the introduction were quickly met. First, the RUT deduction did black jobs white people in a sector where black work was commonplace. This is data from the Swedish Tax Agency. Secondly, the RUT deduction helps people with low education to enter the labour market and with it also into Swedish society. Having a job to go to, making your own money and meeting colleagues and creating a network of contacts does a lot for a person's well-being and self-confidence. The safest way to integration is spelled jobs and self-sufficiency. The RUT reform has contributed to the creation of more businesses, not least by immigrants and by women. Statistics show that four out of ten RUT entrepreneurs were born outside Sweden. The RUT deduction has also been good for the state. When the Institute of Economic Development evaluated the RUT reform, it was found that the RUT deduction had led to persistently higher employment and lower unemployment. Of the 30,000 new jobs that had been created, three quarters had gone to the former unemployed. People previously supported by transfers had received jobs and their own income. Another important effect of the RUT deduction is that it makes it easier for stressed families, for pensioners who want to enjoy life and for others who need domestic services. It is no secret that much of the unpaid household chores in the home are still done by women. Nevertheless, more women than men buy domestic services with RUT deductions. Thus, the RUT deduction contributes to a more equal society. The tax reduction for domestic services has always been an ideological issue. I remember when the Pig debate took off in the 1990s after a proposal from the economist and former Member of Parliament Anne-Marie Pålsson. Pålsson's argument was that new jobs are created, and that productivity increases when you do the chores you are good at. Another reason for subsidising domestic services is that they are services with high substitutability, as consumers themselves can perform the service instead of buying it on the market. This means that if the market price is reduced, more will demand the service and vice versa – high market prices mean that the potential consumer chooses to perform the service himself. In the 1990s, the issue created great contradictions. The Social Democrats painted the idea as a return to a society of men and women. The same rhetoric was heard when the RUT deduction was introduced in 2007. It was strange how a party that calls itself a workers' party showed contempt for those who supported themselves through honest work in the homes of others. It is therefore a good thing that the government, under pressure from the co-operative parties C and L, is now restoring the RUT deduction to SEK 50 000. This should lead to more RUT companies and more new jobs. When the reduction to $25,000 was pushed through, this was justified by few spending more than $25,000 a year. The government did not take into account that the deterioration could knock out companies due to a decrease in market share and unpredictability. In addition, uncertainty was created among customers and regulatory constraints, as different rules applied to ROT and RUT. Single people were affected. Those who bought RUT services for their older parents also suffered as the 25 000 ceiling was not enough. Madam President, I would like I am surprised by the Left Party's reservation, which describes the RUT deduction as a waste of taxpayers' money. It is a way of expressing oneself based on a fundamentally wrong view. A tax cut is never a waste of the money of the state or taxpayers; it always means that anyone who has earned the money with his own job must keep a little more for himself. This is also said by a party that is very generous in demanding free things for selected groups. Free public transport, free men's protection, free museum visits – the list can be made long. There's nothing for free. There's always someone paying. It's the taxpayers who go to work every day. That is why the Left Party's rhetoric about subsidies for the rich is very false. We need more taxpayers in Sweden, not fewer. And those with higher incomes also pay higher taxes. The big difference in Sweden is not between high-, medium- and low-income people, but between those who have a job and those who do not. The RUT deduction is a reform that creates jobs for those furthest away from the labour market. Madam President, I would like The RUT deduction will also play a crucial role in the future. Given the high level of asylum immigration, where many people have come from low education, and given the high level of unemployment in this group, jobs that do not require long-term training and other qualifications are highly sought after. After eight years in Sweden, only one in four non-European immigrants has jobs. Few, or rather no, other reforms have had so many positive effects as the RUT deduction. That is why it should both be developed and expanded. I call for the proposal to be supported with the motivation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-486	Madam President, I would like The budget that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates drew up last winter and which was also adopted by the Riksdag certainly contained very good policies. There were large financial contributions to health care, large financial contributions to the police and to customs and tax cuts for ordinary people. It was also gift tax deductions, which we are about to debate, and a restored RUT deduction, which we are now debating. Since it was introduced by the Alliance Government, the RUT deduction has led to a fantastic development in many industries. The development we have seen is a lesson in reducing taxes on labour quickly and effectively stimulates the growth of new jobs. That is a lesson that all politicians must take to heart. New companies have come into being and can be developed thanks to the RUT deduction, and new jobs have been created. But it is not only new jobs that have been created thanks to the RUT deduction, but it is also the case that jobs that were previously carried out outside the tax system – that is, what is commonly called undeclared work – have been able to become white. This brings with it a lot that is good, and therefore the argument that inequality would increase due to the RUT deduction is very strange. There are many disadvantages to undeclared work. First of all, of course, it is tax evasion, and it is bad enough in itself. But it is also the case that the person who does the work is in an extremely vulnerable situation. For example, what happens if you become ill? And what about the pension? No, anyone who works in, for example, a cleaning job, Madam President, should also be entitled to both sickness benefit and pension. That is why the tax system needs to work so that these jobs can be carried out widely, within the tax system. Over the past few years, we have seen a decline in public acceptance of undeclared work, and that is in itself a positive thing. As respect for our common systems increases, so does trust in society. As I said, it is not only about black jobs that have turned white, but also new jobs have been created thanks to the RUT deduction. More people have been able to enter the labour market as a result. It is also good for equality in society, because the real big gap in our society goes between those who have a job and those who do not. That is why a job-creating policy is also a policy of equality. Madam President, I would like Now we are restoring the RUT deduction, and we can expect major positive effects in the form of more companies, more people working and more jobs done. When the RUT deduction deteriorated during the previous term of office, it led to a sharp decrease in the number of companies in the industry – as much as 14 per cent in the first year. Now we are once again hoping for a positive development for this important industry where so many people get their first job. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' motivational reservation to be approved.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-495	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of the proposal contained in this report, not with great pleasure but out of necessity. The January agreement between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals contains policies which the Social Democrats themselves have not prioritised. But the January agreement was important to reduce the power of the Swedish democrats to what the voters gave them – nothing more. And we Social Democrats have always stood firm, and will always stand firm, at agreements reached. Madam President, I would like The issue of tax deductions for private services has been discussed for a long time, often on the grounds that it exists to a significant extent in other countries. But there is an essential difference between our country and many other countries: in our country, we have chosen to allow a significant proportion of what is in other countries private consumption and tax deductibility to be common consumption. We have done this for political reasons. We jointly finance a service that is allocated according to needs. We pay taxes according to carrying power and benefits in an equal way. This means that we have a large public or common sector, and it creates equality and freedom for the many people. As the proposal suggests, a doubling of the RUT deduction is proposed. It is, as mentioned in the text of the report, neither the promotion of equality nor, in particular, the creation of jobs. As mentioned, the employment impact is very limited. Madam President, I would like A social democrat certainly does not despise the jobs that are being done in the service sector. For my part, I can confirm that it is very complicated and difficult to move, to clean windows or to clean carefully. The professionals make it so much better! But the question is, who will pay? Tax deductions for services give an undesirable outcome from the point of view of equality and fairness. It is unambiguous in that way. We also see this when it comes to the use of RUT services. It is a clear overweight in municipalities and areas with high incomes. In low-income areas it is non-existent. Another question is: what should be subsidised in the economy to create employment? I have been politically active for so long that I have experienced the shipbuilding crisis. I have experienced the teco and textile crises. What would have happened to our country and our development if we had gone in with massive subsidies to assert an industry and a direction? That is probably a very important issue for the tax policy review announced in the said January agreement. If we are to subsidise certain elements of the economy, which I am not opposed to, we should also bear in mind that the subsidy, in addition to benefiting employment, also benefits justice so that there is equality in the end. The current design of the RUT does not mean that anyone with the great needs of resources can demand this. Demand is entirely governed by your economic potential. That, Joar Forssell, would be exciting to botanize in: the outcome of the reform of equality.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-503	Madam President, I would like The proposal for an increased ceiling for RUT deductions, which we have dealt with in the Tax Committee's report No 20, has been adopted by the Swedish Democrats because we have the same proposal in our own budget motion for 2019, which we tabled last autumn. There we propose a raised and changed RUT. We do this because the RUT deduction is a well-proven and largely self-financed deduction, which has meant that sectors that have previously had a relatively high degree of black labour have become white, and that several groups that have previously been considered to have little opportunity in the labour market have now been given more opportunity to enter the labour market. In terms of distribution policy, the deduction has mainly benefited foreign-born women, who have gone from subsidies to work and not infrequently started businesses, even companies with employees. The Swedish democrats therefore budgeted last autumn to extend today's RUT deduction to almost all of the services carried out in or adjacent to the home, a large-scale deduction that could help to avoid complicated limits, for example, that today you cannot get deductions for moving furniture on the same floor but to move them between floors. The Swedish Democrats also proposed raising the ceiling on the deduction to SEK 50 000 per year for people under 65 years of age, in accordance with the proposal we have now discussed in committee, and to SEK 100 000 per year for people over 65 years of age. This would allow families to be given greater opportunities to take advantage of such services as homework, as well as for pensioners to be given a greater opportunity to use the deduction to get help with daily chores such as cooking, moving furniture or cleaning. The report we are now debating contains a proposal which, although not all that the Swedish Democrats have proposed in this area, an increase in the deduction from SEK 25 000 to SEK 50 000 is fully in line with our own draft budget. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Taxation to be approved.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-507	Madam President, I would like We live in a world where economic freedom is crucial. This means the possibility of self-determination, empowerment, own ownership, equal pay and higher pensions. That is not the case today. You're having a hard time being single. Maybe you can't even afford to leave a bad relationship. The RUT reform, I mean and the Center Party, is exactly the right instrument to move forward. You know, you can almost believe when you listen to the debate that we are talking about two completely different proposals. But that's not the case. It is a question of seeing all the consequences of the reform and of the proposal on which we have a position. Since its launch in 2007, the deduction for domestic cleaning, maintenance and laundry services has become, to say the least, popular. People in the middle of their career, family life and retirement age are those who make the most of the possibility of extra help at home. It is very common in other countries but not in Sweden. Here there is some kind of shame that should be associated with this from some ideological and political quarters. Regardless of age, the deduction is most common among women – listen: among women! It is also women who run companies that provide RUT services to a large extent. And believe me: It's not just about moving pianos, whatever it would be wrong to do it. It's about so much more. The RUT deduction is even the most commonly used among people of the upper retirement age. Every fifth person over 75 years of age has been deducted from cleaning, maintenance or laundry services. The share is lowest in the younger age groups and increases up to the age group 40-44. And who are they? Yes, it is those with young children who have suddenly had the opportunity to have a somewhat simpler everyday life. Then the proportion drops slightly before it increases again. Among all age groups, women still make the most of the RUT deduction. The distribution between women and men is also interesting when you look at who runs the companies that offer RUT services. Nearly half of entrepreneurs are women, which is a significantly higher proportion than average in the business sector where approximately one in three entrepreneurs is female. Thus, the proportion of women running companies increases with the RUT reform. Isn't that good? Companies in the RUT sector also stand out when studying the distribution of men and women among employees. Women make up 59% of RUT employees, which is an over-representation compared to the overall business environment. Looking closely at employees in companies, it is seen that the sector is particularly important for weaker groups in the labour market. Compared to the economy as a whole, the proportion of employees is higher among both non-secondary and foreign-born people. What about economic equality now? Was it good or bad with the RUT reform? Nearly half of RUT employees lack upper secondary education, and the proportion of foreign-born is more than twice as high as that of the remaining sectors. The share of foreign born children in RUT enterprises is 36 per cent, in other enterprises 16 per cent. Take into account the fact that 30% of non-European women are out of the labour market! And what about this black and white job and who's gonna pay for this? According to Almega, about 20,000 jobs have been created. And what about economic equality? Is it not a good thing that those who have these jobs come into the system and get a pension instead of working black? If you now think it is a problem that the RUT deduction is most used in some municipalities, is it not the solution to prevent it? Then is it not the solution to market RUT services in more places so that economic equality becomes even better? The more RUT deductions are used, the more labour market supply increases. For me, it's a very simple equation. Madam President, I would like We have also heard many times that this money can be used in the home service instead. But tell me, what municipal home services offer assistance-assessed snow shoveling, grass mowing, pick-up and drop-off at preschool, walking, social activities, bank visits, removal assistance, computer and IT services or the repair of white goods? On the day a municipality can offer it in an assisted home service, freedom of choice is great, but today we are not there. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-521	Madam President, I would like Both Helena Vilhelmsson and I focused much in our speeches on the increased economic equality that this leads to. For example, I talked about black jobs turning white, and so did Helena Vilhelmsson. She also spoke very exemplaryly about women's entrepreneurship and the increased economical equality that follows you of this. Still, I'm a little perplexed. After all, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have left a motivational reservation in which we clearly say that this leads to greater economic equality. But the Center Party has chosen not to support that motivational reservation. On the contrary, the Center Party supports a text which states that the proposal as a whole is deemed to contribute to the reduction of economic equality. Next, the committee finds no reason to make a different assessment from that of the government as to the impact on economic equality. ..................................................... Why is it that the Center Party supports this text? I want answers to that.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-524	Madam President, I would like The simple explanation is, I can say, that I did not attend the committee meeting when we adjusted this. I fully agree with Hampus Hagman on the criticism and on this issue, and I have noted the same thing in the committee text and that it is not true. I can simply say that I can take this into account until the decision in Parliament so that I can discuss it with my party colleague in the committee. For me, it's not a big question. I think that part of the committee text was far from complete, as has been the case several times when there have been government proposals prompted by this year's budget.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-526	Madam President, I would like My next question is: Will the Center Party support the Christian Democrats and the Moderates in the forthcoming vote? We have a text that the Center Party, as I understand from Helena Vilhelmsson's speeches here, agrees with. The answer to that question is perhaps that Helena Vilhelmsson will discuss this with her group, but I still want to ask it. Will the Center support the motivational reservation of the Christian Democrats and Moderates in the coming vote?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-528	Madam President, I would like I repeat what I said in my previous speech. I agree with you on the matter. I cannot stand here and promise anything now, but I would be happy to take the question with me and let you know before the vote how we approach it.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-529	Madam President, I would like I almost always get to be the last in these debates and therefore have the pleasure of thanking you for a good debate. Madam President, I would like I can note that conflicts can be fought in at least two different ways in this profession, in Parliament, in the House and in the committees. There are ways that are more successful than others. You can choose, as Hampus Hagman from the Christian Democrats just did here, to take a line on the Center Party about a couple of lines in a explanatory statement and try to get a debate on this. Or you can choose to take conflicts in rooms where decisions are made for real and win those conflicts. I am pleased, Madam President, that the Liberals have taken the conflict over these deductions in the rooms where decisions were taken in the January Treaty constellation and thus brought about liberal policy. Whether or not the Social Democrats may have got some meaning through as a patch on the wounds, but I imagine that the people affected, the people who actually get a job to go to because of this for the Center Party and Liberals successful negotiation, may not be able to read Parliament's minutes, but we will see if they do. Madam President, I would like I have been living in Tensta outside Stockholm for six years. It is a vulnerable suburb with crime and high social and socio-economic vulnerability and where many people have had difficulty getting jobs. I spoke a while ago to a person who works in Tensta to create jobs and help people start businesses and get a job. In this way they can move away from socio-economic vulnerability and from being economically destitute and long-term unemployed to actually getting into society and getting a job and the pride and security of their own income. This person told me that one of the most common companies one started in the exposed suburbs, in this case around Järva, is a RUT company. He told me it's possible because of the RUT deduction. Even if a person who starts a small RUT company or takes up employment in a RUT company with someone they know initially gets a low income, the low income is still higher than no income at all. It may be that there is less equality between the low income and the high income, but it still becomes more equal if more people receive income. That is the effect of these deductions. Madam President, I would like We've seen how this has worked. It has worked so that jobs that were previously black have turned white. People have gone to work and have had a chance for self-realization and to get their own economic legs to stand on. There have also been more companies. I conclude that tax cuts work if you want more people to start and run businesses and if you want more people to get a job to go to. I wish we could learn from this and push through more general tax cuts, because it is true that if it works in one area it should also work in more areas. Then there was the move of pianos, Madam President. As the Left Party does, you can a little arrogantly ralli over some of the tasks performed by people who work in the RUT industry. But I don't think there are jobs that are less important than others. Jobs need to be done. If no one moves that piano, a teacher may have to move it himself and therefore cannot get the homework right. Or a doctor may have to move his piano himself and therefore does not have time to take that extra session in the emergency room. Or someone who works in the ROT business may not be able to call out to the person who had locked himself out of his home or needed help with a cracked water lock. Of course, it is always good that tasks are performed. There are chores in the home. If the person who carries them out receives a salary, a little money, that is nothing but good. It is a task that would have been accomplished anyway and that had cost resources in time and energy and that someone could not have done another job. I find it surprising that the Left Party does not see that this means that people go from exclusion to inside and that they do not see that this means that people who have not had a job before will be able to get a job and that those who work in jobs that do not mean moving pianos also have more time to do their important tasks. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-539	Madam President, I would like I bounce a little when Joar Forssell says you can take the discussion in the rooms where decisions are made. This is the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament. Where are the decisions if not here, Joar Forssell? This is a signal that makes Annika Strandhäll's actions fade to say that this is not the place where decisions are made. Doesn't Parliament's decisions and texts mean anything to the Liberals? Or why do you agree to the text that you have agreed to in committee?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-541	Madam President, I would like Here Hampus gets some nice clips to post on Facebook – now he laughs a little too! If I am to be a little serious, I would like to say that it is clear that decisions are taken in the configuration called the January Agreement. Otherwise, we would not have entered into the January agreement. Decisions were made in the constellation called the Alliance. Otherwise, neither you, Hampus Hagman, nor I would have wanted to be part of the Alliance. Both I and you, like most others, understand that it is in this House that we make decisions and make laws. However, we do not come to the Chamber as unwritten pages, sit down at the table and press a little on which button we feel like. Decisions are made together even before entering the Chamber. This is how democracy works both here and in other countries, and it is done with the mandates given to it by the electorate. Formally, of course, you press the button here, but both you and I know that if you want to get politics through, you have to negotiate. When you negotiate politics, you have to give and take. In the constellation that now exists, our two parties have been prepared to give different amounts. Your party, Hampus, has wanted a position that will allow you to come to the Chamber and hit me and the Center Party. You've wanted to beat your chest and tell me that you're the most learned. My party has taken a position where we get politics through. We are getting through real proposals, which you also agree to because you understand that this is a reality. If it had not been for our work in the negotiations with the Social Democrats, you would not have had a proposal that goes through the House and that you could add a little motivational reservation to. If it had not been because we were sitting at the negotiating table, we would not have created greater equality and more jobs, which you too agree with.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-546	Madam President, I would like Perhaps one can make it a habit to read aloud from the reports from the Parliament's pulpit. It says this in the report, Joar Forssell :中 The Riksdag decided on 12 December 2018 to submit the Finance Committee's report to the government. – – – The Riksdag thereby announced that the government would return with proposals to raise the ceiling for the RUT deduction to SEK 50 000 starting from. 1 July 2019. ..................................................... It is therefore Parliament's decision that is behind the government's return with this bill. It is thanks to the budget put forward by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates last winter that the government is now returning to the House with this proposal for a decision. And it is in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament that the real decisions are made. No matter what constellation the proposals come from, this is where they become law. The texts adopted here mean something. Therefore, it is a problem that the Liberals and the Center Party buy the description of the RUT deduction that the government has, namely that it is judged to contribute to the reduction of economic equality. Both Joar Forssell and I know, Madam President, that this is not the case. This leads to greater economic equality. I put a similar question to you, Joar, which I previously asked Helena Vilhelmsson: How will the Liberals vote? Will the Liberals vote for the text that describes it as a reduction in economic equality, or will they support the Christian Democrats and the Moderates at the forthcoming vote?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-550	Madam President, I would like Hampus Hagman from the Christian Democrats sees more windmills than Don Quijote himself. It is absolutely incredible how much you twist it and how bad you seem when you see that the Liberals and the Center Party throughout this term of office will get through liberal tax policy, Hampus Hagman. I understand that it hurts when people other than the Christian Democrats get to push through tax cuts and really make a difference. I understand this. I also know that Hampus Hagman knows very well that mine, and probably also the core value of the Center Party, is that this is a reform that creates more equality because more people have to go to work, more people have the opportunity to enter business and more people have the chance to have their own financial security. I think Hampus Hagman knows we think so. It was not so long since Hampus Hagman's party pushed that the Alliance was broken by putting forward proposals in the House that made the Alliance not stick together. I believe, however, that Hampus Hagman knows and remembers that even within the Alliance different parties had different entry values but met. Sometimes you got to agree to things you like and sometimes things you don't like. I think it also worked that way in the municipality of Gothenburg, where Hampus Hagman previously worked. Madam President, I would like This is a debate that will result in a decision in which we will have reduced taxes through an increased ceiling. More people will get jobs. More companies will be created. We will have greater economic equality. I do not think that the people in Tensta who will benefit from increased economic equality will be sorry that we have pushed this through, regardless of what the text says.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-554	I would like to remind Members that we in this House are speaking through the President and not duking each other, but using first and last names.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-555	Madam President, I would like There is a fundamental reason why the Left Party is against this proposal. It is based on our view of how the welfare society should be organised. There are several different ways of thinking about it, but for us it is obvious that the state should have overall responsibility for citizens and citizens. Through a state responsibility for welfare, resources through the tax system can be fairly redistributed between citizens. In addition, a welfare state can provide services such as health care, education and long-term care in an equivalent way to its citizens. We believe that in an equal society we take joint responsibility for each other and help each other. That's where the lowest level should be high. This is also a more democratic way of organising society. However, I understand that there are Members of this House who view the welfare society in a different way. Firstly, we have those who are more liberal in the market, who believe that the market will offer the best solutions. There, the individual can obtain private insurance for protection when he or she needs medical care or becomes unemployed. On the other hand, we have those who want a more conservative approach. They think that welfare should be based on a more voluntary basis where there is no common basic protection for everyone. There you will be extradited to the family or to the willingness of non-profit organizations to donate money. For a long time we in Sweden have had a strong general welfare, and we were for a long time the most equal country in Europe. However, this is no longer the case, thanks to the rise of neoliberalism and the over-reliance on market forces. That is also why the proposal to tax gifts is so exceptionally bad. It's also incredibly out-of-date. Madam President, I would like The differences in living conditions are increasing in Sweden, and every year Sweden becomes more unequal. The richest draw away, and the poor are left behind. In fact, the poor are getting more. I know that the Left Party and some other parties have different views on poverty and what it is about when you cannot afford, for example, the most necessary. For children who grow up under these circumstances, things are getting worse. More and more children in Sweden live in families that cannot afford what is necessary. The consequences of child poverty are numerous. It's about living tight, living with constant anxiety, being afraid, not being able to afford to replace things that are broken, missing clothes, sick leave when the class is on a school trip or at the end of the month mixing milk with water to make it last. It is expensive to be poor, and the money simply is not enough, no matter how you twist it and turn it around. Sadly, these children often know everything about unemployment insurance, social security funds, income support and low wages. Many children know this precisely because they feel poverty right into their skin. Many children also know this because they are simply involved in interpreting parents'papers from various authorities. Economic inequality restricts children's dreams and drives them to a lack of self - esteem and feelings of unworthiness. For example, if you really want to tackle poverty, you could do so with economic equalisation and equality, as well as with other social, housing, school and labour market policies. But for the right, poverty has increasingly become a point of order. Between the lines, they most probably want the working class to raise their children. In the eyes of the right, income and wealth differences are often a measure of the performance of different people. At the same time, the same parties are pursuing a crude right-wing policy that increases the income gap even more. That is also what makes it so outdated and outdated to pursue a tax policy that, with one hand, increases the economic divides considerably and, with the other hand, proposes tax deductions for gifts. The Left Party has a positive view of non-profit activities, which we believe is developing democracy. However, we believe that it is far better to spend money on public welfare, which we are all in charge of and which is distributed according to needs, than on tax deductions for gifts to selected organisations. It is positive that people want to give gifts to non-profit activities, and the non-profit sector needs to be supported in different ways. It is a central issue of democracy, and, in our opinion, powers and decision-makers at different levels should interact with civil society organisations. By involving people at an early stage, decisions that form the basis for sustainable social development can be made. We therefore believe that there are strong reasons for improving and developing support for civil society organisations. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of municipalities, regions and states not handing over the responsibilities and tasks that lie within the framework of strong public welfare. This should be in the hands of public forces. For example, if we have assistance activities consisting of support and care for asylum seekers or people in vulnerable situations, we see that this is a social responsibility, and we target increased common resources according to needs where they are needed. It is about the basic way of looking at welfare, with which I began my speech. We believe that this is a joint commitment. Welfare is not to be handed over to non-profit organisations. It is a policy of greater equality and essentially of maintaining a rights perspective. It is about what people in different situations are entitled to rather than the charity of individuals. We are doing this with a broader fiscal policy and redistribution for economic justice. Madam President, I would like There are, as I have said, major gaps in society. It is therefore justified to ask how this proposal can reduce the child poverty I have just described. How will such a proposal increase equality and reduce income inequality? If the tax system is now to be involved, would it not be better to use it to extend social safety nets and ensure that more people get jobs with a salary that they can live on? I think it would be much better if the tax system acted as a redistributive instrument between high-income earners and low-income earners, but instead the citizens think that a gift deduction is a better way to go. The only problem is that today the tax system is rigged for the richest. The economic gaps in Sweden are increasing, and this is not solved with a gift deduction. The solution should not come from the will of individuals to donate money, but tax after viability should govern. People should not have to rely on it to be donated money and gifts for non-profit activities. We need a strong welfare state to build an equal society. We are seeing the impact of the disaster budget today, with major tax cuts for those who earn the most and large cuts in labour market policy. Regular workers who are in the union have lost their tax reductions due to the abolition of tax deductions on trade union contributions. At the same time, the same conservative trio, for example, abolished free public transport for children during the summer holidays, which the Left Party was involved in negotiating with the then government. Against this background, I see the proposal for a tax deduction for gifts as a patch-on-year reform for the gaps and inequalities they themselves are creating. There is a huge political bias in the fact that bourgeois parties want to create the possibility of deductions for individuals to give money to charity when the same people do not want to pay more taxes to strengthen general welfare. The tax cuts they want to implement lead to corresponding cuts in welfare. The Left Party wants our common resources to be directed towards greater economic equality. Tax after buoyancy should rule. Increased taxes are needed for those who have the greatest wealth, inherit wealth, and make huge profits on stocks. Against this background, I support the Left Party's reservation 1 in the report.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-573	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal contained in the report before us, even here with limited satisfaction at the elements of the January agreement. But after January, spring always comes eventually, with all the flowers and the beautiful. Madam President, I would like I've always been active as a group: Scouts, football, ping-pong, cross-country running and SSU. I am happy to be a member of IFK Norrköping, which unfortunately has played far too many unfinished games this season, Jönköpings Södra of course and several other organizations. Every month I contribute to the Palme Foundation for International Work and for the development of democracy and social equality in our world. I buy my tickets and donate sometimes. It feels good. It feels right. The non-profit sector is extremely important, and it has made many people grow and bloom. It is therefore important that politics here in Parliament, in regions and in municipalities invests and does not skimp on funding for leisure and cultural life. Madam President, I would like I know my history decently and know the role of the gift before the struggle for a more equal and solidarity-based society could win success. I was born in 1955. The same year, general health insurance came. Before that, it was voluntary cashiers and often nothing. If someone was injured at work or killed in the heavy work of those days, collection among comrades was available. It was a vulnerable situation, and it was humiliating for the relatives. A different system of rights was created, so that we were divided in a solidarity-based and fair way. The modern welfare state created people who could grow instead of shrinking. Madam President, I would like It's good to get involved on a voluntary basis. It is good to support associations with gifts. But why should everyone contribute through tax expenditure when someone wants to give? In fact, I think that this report is related to cap. 12 of the Gospel of Mark. The widow had two cups. Not much. Jesus said: The rich have given more than she, but had more to give. The widow gave everything she had. She gave more than the rich. Madam President, I would like Let us consider these words, not least this week, when it is the ascension of Kristus.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-580	Madam President, I would like In civil society, there are currently organisations that help to alleviate the situation of many people in need and those at risk. This is a very honorable expression of the sense of duty and the will to help and strengthen our country. Unfortunately, we sometimes see that public resources are not enough for everything, and then voluntary and non-profit organisations have been able to contribute valuable contributions alongside the public sector. Sometimes, and perhaps all too often, we see certain priorities that the political leadership in Sweden does and that mean that certain groups do not qualify to fall within the framework of state aid. This can lead to these groups falling completely between the chairs or simply being forgotten. In the best of worlds, we want all our common public resources to be sufficient for all good projects and all with needs, but unfortunately we see that that is not the case. To the extent that non-profit organisations, often with voluntary efforts, can cover and help, we are absolutely positive about their efforts. Therefore, to be able to obtain a limited tax credit on the amount that is being given, we see as something that can bear good fruit for the common objectives of our nation. That the grant recipient should engage in social assistance or scientific research, and that the grant recipient should also be approved by the Swedish Tax Agency based on a number of different conditions, we see as an obvious prerequisite that the system should not be used for activities it was not intended for. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to point out that this does not, of course, deprive the State of its responsibilities. However, in order to strengthen the non-profit sector, where it can broaden society and complement both business and the public sector with voluntary efforts, we are in favour of the proposal to reintroduce tax reductions for donations to non-profit activities.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-585	Madam President, I would like In 2012, the then alliance government in Sweden introduced the possibility of making tax deductions for donations to non-profit organisations working in the social field. For the Christian Democrats it was a great success. We had worked for a long time to make this possible. There were several reasons why this was important to us. It was about strengthening the important social work of these organisations. It was about strengthening civil society organisations as independent from the state. It was about encouraging individuals to donate money. The gift tax deduction was a great success. The donation increased sharply from year to year in each year of the deduction. In the last two years, the number who took part in the deduction increased by 15 and 13 per cent, respectively, which is fantastic increases. Yet this fades when compared to the first two years, when the increase was as much as 30 percent. The gift tax deduction was a great success, but it wasn't perfect. We Christian Democrats said that already then. Around the same time as the deduction was introduced, the Christian Democrats released a report with our civil society policy. In the report we describe, among other things, how we want to see the gift tax deduction develop. It is a question of reducing the administrative burden on the organisations concerned. It is a question of raising the limit. It is a question of extending the deduction so that many more organisations can be included. There were, and there are, several important sources of inspiration around Europe. Germany, Denmark, the United Kingdom – the fact is that almost all of Europe's countries have some kind of deduction or reduction for gifts. But the most important example, and perhaps the most interesting thing for us to study, is probably our western neighbour, Norway. It introduced the deduction in 1999. At first it was quite modest, a few hundred, and it covered only a few types of organizations. But then it developed. Today, the amount limit is over SEK 20 000, and over 600 organisations are covered. These are organisations that work with care, human rights, culture, the environment, nature and animal welfare. In 1999, Christian Kjell-Magne Kjell-Magne Bondevik was Prime Minister of Norway. Since then, Norway has had governments to both the right and the left, with prime ministers such as Jens Stoltenberg and Solberg Erna. There have been different governments with different policies in many areas, but all have developed the gift tax credit. But unfortunately, Sweden has so far chosen a different path. Instead of developing the gift tax deduction so that it got better, the Red-Green Government chose the last term of office to remove the deduction entirely. Therefore, we are now back to square one when we reintroduce the gift tax deduction, but with a slight improvement. This time we have ensured that the organisations applying to become gift recipients do not have to pay the application and annual fee. These fees mainly affected many smaller organisations last time. My wish is that we should now be able to stop talking about whether we should have the deduction or not, and instead start thinking about what is square two. How can the gift deduction be developed? The Christian Democrats' response to this question is that Norway should be our source of inspiration. Here in Sweden there are a lot of organisations that want to get into the system, and they should be allowed to do so. I co-organized a seminar on this issue here in Parliament almost two months ago. The breadth of the organisations that were involved clearly shows that there are many who want to be involved: Animal Protection Sweden, the Brain Fund, Friends, Palestine groups, everyone was there. Madam President, I would like We also need to change our view of what commitment is. Being an active member of any association is of course great. Contributing with your time as a volunteer sea rescuer, for example, is something that is great. But it's not always suitable for everyone. During certain times of life, time can be contributed, but in other times of life it does not work. Then it works better to swish a gift or to be a monthly donor. Engagement is expressed in many different ways today. It should be encouraged, Madam President. We have seen an increase in giving in the last ten years. There are, of course, many different reasons for this. Some years it increases more, and it can often be linked to events in the outside world. The increase is also likely due to the fact that people's disposable income has increased over the past ten years, and certainly it is also due to the fact that today there are many more organisations working professionally on collection. In 2012 – 2015 it also increased thanks to the gift tax deduction. However, there are also studies that show that while the amount of grants increases, the proportion of people who donate money stands still. It's stable at about six out of ten. So the increases we have seen are not because there are more giving but because those who give give give more. In addition, there are preliminary figures over 2018 showing a stagnation, for the first time in ten years. I am pleased that the gift tax credit is being reintroduced. But let us now stop arguing about the gift tax deduction's product or not to be. Let us follow Norway's example and broadly across all party and block borders begin the discussion on how it can develop and improve. It is about how more organisations can be included, how the unnecessary amounts that exist can be removed and how the total amount that can be deducted can be increased. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Taxation to be approved.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-600	Madam President, I would like I have two questions to ask Hampus Hagman. Hampus Hagman talks much about encouraging private giving and generosity. In substance, I have no objection to commitment and generosity. But I would like to ask Hampus Hagman : Which do Hampus Hagman think is the greatest, to donate SEK 20, SEK 200, SEK 2 000 or SEK 20 000? What does Hampus Hagman consider to be the greatest gift? The second question is as follows. I have followed with interest all the tax debates in this House for several years. I see an enormous commitment, Madam President, to the tax expenditure of bone matter, thus reducing taxes. I would like to ask Hampus Hagman: What do you think is today in the Swedish economy, Swedish fiscal policy? Do we have room to further reduce taxes and reduce the scope of the common, or does Hampus Hagman have a different view? I would like an answer to that, Madam President.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-602	Madam President, I would like I start from behind and can immediately answer Peter Persson that the question is misplaced. There is no contradiction between reducing taxes and taking greater joint responsibility. Lower taxes, Peter Persson, leads to more people working. When more people work, the cake becomes bigger, and then we can invest more resources in health care, police and child and youth psychiatry – all the things that the Social Democratic Government has allowed to decay during the last parliamentary term. We see this, for example, when we look at how healthcare queues have developed. There is no contradiction between reduced taxes and increased spending on welfare. The first question, which is the greatest gift, is possibly a philosophical question. But the answer is that it may be up to the individual. It depends entirely on the resources of the individual. For a student, a gift of SEK 100 can be very large. For me and for Peter Persson it is perhaps not at all an equal gift.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-604	Madam President, I would like These are extremely interesting answers that Hampus Hagman gives to my questions. Thus: Lowering the tax increases the revenue to the common. With this conclusion, SKL over there can be calm. Everything you talk about when it comes to demographics and all the supplements needed to cope with health care, care and school – you solve that easily! Madam President, I would like You can go down to Hampus Hagman and get the prescription printed. Lower the tax in Gothenburg by SEK 10, and immediately Sahlgrenska's operating rooms flourish. Preschools are filled with educators. Even Gais is beginning to win matches, because they have been given enhanced association grants. Madam President, I would like The neo-liberal policy has put its claws hard in the KD and also, unfortunately, in Hampus Hagman. It is believed that tax cuts are the solution to all social problems. There is no problem that cannot be solved by such a thing. Hampus Hagman also answers my question: What is the greatest value of a gift? Is it 20, 200, 2,000 or 20,000? It is up to the individual to judge, answers Hampus Hagman. Sure! But me, Jörgen Hellman, you and others will pay generously whoever gives 20 000.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-608	Madam President, I would like If Gais starts winning football games because we're lowering the tax, I think I'm willing to raise it. But it may not be the core issue here. Peter Persson claims that I think that all the problems of society are solved by tax cuts. That's not true, and I haven't said that either. However, on the question of how more people can work and how to get more resources for welfare, the answer is that tax cuts stimulate work, and work creates wealth and resources for welfare. That the gifts look different depending on who gives is an important question. It is also an important argument for removing the unnecessary limits on amounts contained in the system now being reintroduced. It is an argument for continuing to develop this system. For today there is a limitation that says that the smallest single gift may be $200, and it may seem a little strange. I can agree with that when the average gift is 100 kroner. We need to develop the system; it is not perfect. It's square one. Now I hope we can discuss what improvements we are going to make.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-612	Madam President, I would like Gas prices are too high. That is why I am standing here, and that is why we in Parliament are debating this issue today. Last week I invited the Bensin call 2.0 to speak here in Parliament. They witnessed not one, two, three or four, but many thousands of stories from places around the country – here in Stockholm, far north, all the way down to the south, from east to west – about people who are now devastated by the high fuel costs. It was about mothers who are worried about not being able to drive their children to and from leisure activities and about fathers sitting and counting on whether it really pays to take that job a bit away now that the trip is so expensive. It was about people who are worried about whether they can afford the necessary travel to and from the hospitals where they receive their treatment, because it is now so expensive to refuel the car. It was about thousands and thousands of stories from places all over Sweden about people who at the petrol pump are worrying about a big lump in the stomach about how the private economy should go together when it has become so expensive to refuel. Madam President, I would like We have built our country, as has been done in many other countries, to use the car in. Then we politicians all of a sudden and more and more start pointing people out and pointing out petrol and diesel prices, which are going to be higher. Driving a car will be a luxury that fewer and fewer people will be able to afford. This, Madam President, is to reject the whole building of society to which all of us have fundamentally contributed and which is behind the way in which Sweden operates today. This means a top-down perspective and, in many cases, a strong Stockholm perspective, which rhymes very badly with wanting to take responsibility for the whole of Sweden. It is therefore gratifying that – although this is a small step – today we are dealing with a proposal that comes from the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats and that we will actually have a small reduction in the tax on petrol and diesel at the end of the six-month period. I understand those who say that it is not a sufficient step and that it is not enough, but at least it is a step in the right direction. Even long journeys start with one step, as you know. Madam President, I would like I therefore support reservation 2, which makes it clear that this should not be a temporary reduction in the tax on fuel. Instead, we will constantly, for time and eternity to come, remove the over-indexation that has caused the price of petrol and diesel to rise and rise and at the end of this term of office risks reaching SEK 20, unless the politics of the Moderates and Christian Democrats may continue to prevail. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a large country with great distances. People have got longer to school, because many small schools in the countryside have closed down. People have been given longer to public services – to tax offices, bailiffs and dentists – because the service that used to exist in the local community is now only in the larger cities further away. People have been given longer to work because the local plant or industry is no longer there. Instead, they work in an urban area that is perhaps both five and a hundred miles away. It has been given longer to go shopping because the shop that used to be in the village is now located in a larger town far away. This development of society has, if not, at least not been counteracted by those of us who are in politics. Now the people who live in these places around our country hear the same politicians saying that you should stop driving. All of us politicians in all parties need to think a lot about that. We have had a community development where the school, public services, workplaces and the store have ended up further away, and now in politics we are saying that you should no longer be allowed to drive. We must understand the irritation, but also the fear, anxiety and great concern that this type of behaviour gives rise to. The popular movement and the uprising we now see are legitimate. These are not people who do not understand things about the environment and conversion. They understand exactly what this is about, namely a small political elite who says that their lives as they appear cannot continue. It will not be possible to live around Sweden's countryside if this political development is allowed to continue. However, the price of petrol and diesel is far from just a rural issue. We all have a life puzzle. It's one thing to say that you can travel collectively if you don't have any children to consider and just go round-trip to work and if you live in a place where public transport is well-developed. However, that is the way life is far from being for everyone. Jobs, hockey training, wheelchairs, dentists, Tinderdates, walkers-- everything that belongs to life happens to us all. Here the car is not only superior in the sense that it is the best. Car is also by far the most common way we humans transport ourselves, simply because it is the only thing that is possible. It is one thing to preach in the inner city of Stockholm that you should ride the subway. It is another thing that with three cold children, two strollers and eight food bags try to get through by a bus that only goes once an hour. That life does not make sense for people, and it is presumptuous of us in politics to say that people should live that way. In addition, capacity is far from sufficient. Even if you add all the subways, commuter trains, trains, buses and other local traffic, yes, even all flights, you will not close to covering the daily need for communications. It is simply in and around the car most people live their everyday lives to make the puzzle of life go together. Madam President, I would like That is why the Moderates and Christian Democrats have pushed through a proposal which means that the tax on fuel will be lower from the mid-year. That is why the Moderates in a motion have proposed that the freeze of indexation should apply not only this year but also for the years ahead. Madam President, I would like We have a burning commitment to the environment. We have a burning commitment to change and to reduce climate impact. But making people who depend on cars poorer in their everyday lives is not a good climate policy. That's not how we build a better future. That is not how we change in a sustainable way that many people support. We will, of course, continue to use smart economic instruments. But Sweden must also start to tackle the climate challenge where it is at its greatest. It is about coal power and replacing a carbon-heavy energy source with nuclear and renewable energy. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying that it is also an ideological question. It is no wonder that left-wing politicians want to drive up petrol and diesel prices. It is the same politician who wants to move the choice of school from the kitchen table to the municipal building. It is the same politicians who want to move the choice of healthcare and doctors from the kitchen table into the political decision-making assemblies. When you drive up the price of petrol and diesel, you also make a political choice from the left and move the opportunity from the individual to decide over his or her everyday life and plan his or her day to the political decision-making assemblies, which will draw timetables and govern how people should travel and live. Madam President, I would like There are therefore many good reasons to vote for our reservation 2, and I still hope that, for example, the Center Party and the Liberals will come to their senses and support the Moderate reservation on this matter.
i-9GiC3R2thFLjbXKWGstCyx	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 3. Swedish agriculture gives us sustainable food, biodiversity, open landscapes, cultural heritage, quality of life in everyday life, a resource base for rural areas, national self-sufficiency and thus independence, etc. Swedish agriculture is shrinking, regardless of which of the following measures is used: number of farms, number of animals, the country's self-sufficiency rate or cultivated area. The decline in competitiveness and profitability is even greater. This means that farmers stubbornly continue to farm the land and give us the added value we like, even though it pays less and less. This also means that the decline in production is masked by the stubbornness of farmers. So the situation is worse than the statistics say. If we do not solve the problems of profitability in agriculture, we cannot solve the other problems either. If profitability can instead be improved, many things will be better: economy, resilience, room for manoeuvre, technology development, business development, niche, capacity for more environmentally friendly production and future profitability. Profitability is a key factor. The food strategy is important to reverse developments in the longer term. This also applies to the reduction in employers' contributions and allowances that we want to introduce. But if agriculture does not get reduced costs in the short term, we will see closures. This is, of course, about last year's drought, but also about the effects of the margins being worn down year after year, with the good memory of politics. A reduction in diesel tax is just a quick move. The Moderates and Christian Democrats recognise that costs must be reduced. They therefore propose a reduction in diesel tax. That's good, but it's too little. Let us reduce diesel tax as much as we can, as much as the EU rules allow. Why shouldn't we? Then leave the reduction until further notice, until we see that the agricultural industry has recovered and regained margins that allow sustainability and until it becomes easier to reset. According to SLU, the flora of the agricultural landscape has changed in recent decades as the number of grazing livestock and pasture land has decreased and that agricultural land in many places is no longer cultivated, but has been made into forest land, active or passive. Structural change is also likely to play a role. The lack of profitability is therefore also a threat to biodiversity. A friend of order may say that climate change is also a threat to biodiversity and that it is therefore unreasonable to save biodiversity in a way that is detrimental to the climate. It is true that climate change also threatens species in Sweden, although it may not be as fast. But the point is that a reduction in diesel taxation will have no effect on climate gas emissions. The issue of diesel taxes exposes a conflict of objectives between climate action and natural values. In this case, even a reduction in diesel taxation does not even improve the climate. How can it be that the reduction in diesel taxation will not have any effect on climate gas emissions? Well, here's the thing: Sweden is currently vacuuming the world market on biofuels. As a result, Sweden has even exceeded the target for the use of renewable fuels in the transport sector in the EU Member States. The target is 10% by 2020. It is soon, and almost all the other Member States have a long way to go, and that is in a situation where there is a global shortage of biofuels. This will bring demand to the ceiling and the price with it. Waste and residues in the food chain may be enough for a little more biofuels but are close to being fully utilised today. Tall oil is already fully used for various special chemicals, and this use is to be replaced by fossil products that do not result in a minor carbon footprint. So nothing is won. There is also a real risk that a dramatic increase in the demand for biofuels will result in more palm oil plantations and increased deforestation, even if only palm oil production residues are used. Dramatically increased demand and thus greatly increased prices make it more profitable to grow palm oil, even if you would have to sell the oil itself cheaper. This leads to increased climate gas emissions and reduced biodiversity in the tropics. It's all connected. In addition, agricultural diesel taxes have a limited impact on driving. Farmers don't drive. They don't have time for that. To some extent, high diesel tax may lead to a little less mechanical weed control and a little more chemical control, theoretically with a little reduced climate gas emissions and a little increased chemical use as a result. If the diesel tax is reduced, diesel consumption could in itself increase if it becomes profitable to lease and use a distant shift. But then production increases and replaces import products that have been produced with even higher climate gas emissions. And a shift in woodland doesn't grow again. Because it is the case, as I have said in other contexts, that products from Swedish food production emit significantly less climate gases than imported food. This means that for every farm we save, we improve the climate, relatively. Finally, to those who believe strongly that the creation of demand leads to the necessary technological development, I say that the transport sector will increase demand without changing agriculture. What does all this mean? Well, to know whether a measure is good or bad, one must try to see the consequences of the various proposals and create an overall picture. Holding on to a high diesel tax today in agriculture is sacrificing a lot of farms without improving the climate. Maybe it's like not eating the cake and still not keeping it. Madam President, I would like We propose a climate break for Swedish agriculture. In concrete terms, this means that the diesel tax should be reduced as much as possible and without setting an end date. In the longer term, it looks better. There is reason to believe that technological development will result in more biofuels from forest residues. When better technology exists and Swedish agricultural profitability and margins have recovered, we can start the conversion of the agricultural sector. The farmer who wants to convert to fossil-free does not get higher costs from the diesel tax reduction and can do so. Let's put away prestige and party tactics! Let us all vote in favour of reducing diesel tax as much as possible and for the time being. Together, let us create the long-term better conditions that agriculture so badly needs and the biodiversity associated with agriculture. It is easy, because the proposal is on the table: reservation 3. Just vote for it in this House. Then we will also create the conditions for continuing to tackle all the other important long-term reforms. Finally, if our reservation falls, we intend to vote in favour of reservation 2. The proposal that the tax on petrol and diesel should continue to increase more than actual changes in the consumer price index is a good proposal. This would make the future more secure for those living outside the city.
i-HS8kD3gYXNzq9mAzPT27nM	Madam President, I would like I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 1.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-656	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. What we are deciding today is based on a reservation on our budget in the autumn. It was the Moderates and Christian Democrats who received this reservation with the support of the Swedish Democrats. There was, among other things, an announcement, which means a mission, to the government to return with a proposal. It is about reducing the tax on diesel in agriculture and forestry. There is already a tax exemption there, but the proposal wants to increase this exemption. The second proposal concerns the taxation of petrol. There are two parts to this. One is that the petrol tax is listed with inflation, but there is another list that takes account of GDP, GDP or growth. That is the part that is about growth, and the mission to the government was that this part should be removed. When Parliament votes through the budget, it applies, because we have parliamentarism in Sweden. It's the Riksdag that decides. This means that it was a binding decision in the Riksdag that was sent to the Government, and the Government has now fulfilled its mission and delivers these proposals. This does not mean that we Social Democrats think it is a good proposal, but it is important to follow the principles of parliamentarism and to carry out what Parliament has commissioned. I would like to describe the proposals a little more closely. The first concerns a greater tax exemption than that already in place for diesel for working machines, ships and certain boats in agriculture, forestry and aquaculture. This shall apply from 1 July 2019 to 31 December 2019. That's what the announcement says. The parliamentary mission to the government is therefore that it will end on 31 December. Similarly, in the case of taxes on petrol and diesel, it is a matter of counting up against growth no longer valid, but only listing in relation to inflation. It is exactly the same with this proposal; it applies between 1 July 2019 and 31 December 2019. So it's a one-time reduction. As far as the petrol tax is concerned, it means 13 cents per litre as it becomes cheaper. After 31 December 2019, the listing will continue in accordance with the Riksdag's decision to the Government, in accordance with current legislation. But then it is listed from a slightly lower level due to the reduction that will be in place for six months to come. This was a small statement of the concrete proposal, but what is raised much in the debate is the price of petrol. When we look at the price of petrol, we can see that it is commuting heavily. We have seen this not least in the last year. At first it was up to 16, 50, then it went down to 14 kroner and now it is close to 17 kroner. Thirteen cents, as the temporary reduction implies, is nothing in this context. Since February, the price has gone up by about 1.50. That's where the big price difference is, not in the tax. If we look at the reason why the price of petrol rises, we can see that there is concern around the Persian Gulf, and we can see it in Libya and Venezuela, for example. We can also see that when the OPEC countries decide to send out or withdraw oil, this affects the supply of oil, and when the supply decreases, the price rises. We can also see that the Swedish exchange rate has weakened in relation to the dollar, which you count in when you buy oil. This means that it will be more expensive. In addition, we are now in driving season, as it is called between May and August, as there are simply more driving cars, and longer distances. Demand increases, and when it does, the price rises. That kind of thing also plays a role. This, in turn, means that if you make it very economically beneficial in the tax system to refuel petrol and diesel, it can even contribute to a price increase, if it leads to a change in behaviour, i.e. more cars travel longer distances. This is not a zero-sum game. It cannot be said that reducing the tax by a certain amount will automatically and permanently lead to a lower price of petrol, for there are many factors involved. I do not want to say that the price may be more expensive, but it will not necessarily be as cheap as we thought. The main issue here, however, is that our dependence on oil is unsustainable. The first reason concerns the environment. We have promised to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in domestic transport by 70% by 2030. These are global agreements, and they are an agreement in Europe at all levels. If we are serious about the climate, I think it is very important that we live up to our own promises. We cannot just say that others should do this, but we must do our part and then, of course, make demands on the rest of the world. If we are to achieve this goal, we need to switch from oil dependence to renewables. So that is the first reason. The second reason is economic. We can see that the increase in the price of petrol has a great deal to do with the increase in oil shortages. Most assessors feel that this will only get worse over time. So it is not just a matter of bad for the climate, but it is also bad for people's wallets in the long run. It will be more expensive and more expensive for individuals. We need changes, and we can't make them overnight. But we have to start today if we are to see long-term changes. We need to reset. One important thing is the demands made on fuel companies. We demand that they mix renewablely in petrol. This is what is called the reduction obligation – reducing petrol and increasing the renewable part. This is also important in order for us to achieve our climate target. But it will be a step-by-step transition in this way, and we will find other energy sources that are better for the climate. We also have a system where what is bad for the climate is taxed a little more, but what is good for the climate is taxed a little less. So the goal is not that people should pay a lot, but that we should change the environment and that it should also cost less. In the same way, we do with cars. Anyone who can afford to buy a new car with high CO2 emissions may be involved in funding subsidies, or bonuses, to those who buy low-emission cars. Then the incentive, the drive, to have cars that are more fuel-efficient. It's also good for the economy. Then you need to refuel less. This is therefore a major change in society. But it is very important that this transition is carried out according to the conditions. We therefore want to help the countryside in many different ways, including with a distance-based contribution for those commuting to work. It is important that this is done more fairly for rural areas. It is about expanding public transport and a holistic approach in rural areas. It's not just one question. It is about tax equalisation systems across the country, and it is about state grants to municipalities and county councils to ensure that rural areas can also cope with their welfare. This is really a huge question. But it still feels important to see the whole, although this is a small issue in this context.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-673	Madam President, I would like This debate is about fuel taxation. From a Christian Democrat standpoint, we believe that this is an issue characterised by a conflict of interest between good environmental and climate policy and the fact that everyone who lives and builds in Sweden must be able to do so in a good way, even if they do not have access to functioning public transport during all hours of the day. Today's taxation consists of several different components. We have vehicle taxation, we have congestion taxes in some places and we have fuel taxation that in practice acts as a kilometre tax. Those who have a long way to work will have to pay more than those who have shorter way to work. Those who live in such a place where there are no alternatives will have to pay more than those who can use public transport. We also have another charge that actually affects those who use vehicles, and that is the parking fees. It's actually a fee for using a street room. Today's taxation aims to ensure that road users are involved in funding the infrastructure they use and that there is continued climate development of vehicles and traffic systems. We Christian Democrats are therefore in favour of the development of technology. We are in favour of finding ways to deal with the environmental problems caused by fuel for all of us. But it must not happen in such a way that it also makes it difficult to live outside our urban centres. Madam President, I would like The problem with today's taxation is that it is perceived as expensive and unfair. On fuel taxation alone, we take in nearly SEK 90 billion a year, and we return SEK 30 billion to the transport system. Another problem with today's taxation is that it affects those living in rural areas harder than those living in our major cities, since those living in rural areas have little or no chance of choosing alternative transport. Figures have been produced on this. Among other things, they show that those living in rural areas pay about 180 % of the infrastructure they use, while those living in a larger urban area pay about 80 % of the infrastructure they use. It is clear that such an injustice leads to conflicts of interest. It drives the conflict between town and country, even if it tries to compensate through other systems such as municipal equalisation systems. Madam President, I would like New technologies open up opportunities for new taxation to take account of these different conflicts. Among other things, we who sit on the Transport Committee and on the Tax Committee are courted by various organisations that point to the possibilities of the new technology, where a tax system can take into account city and country, distance, vehicle type, international traffic and time of day. Especially in our larger urban areas, there can be an enormous difference in taxation depending on the time of day when you drive into a city. All of this is based on the use of technical surveillance or the like in the car. We are therefore faced with a technological shift in which we can eventually create a fairer transport and fuel taxation. Madam President, I would like We in the Christian Democrats have made arrangements with the Moderates for a break in the overindexing of petrol and diesel. However, it is not enough to do a little steering in today's system. We believe that the government should initiate an investigation into a new fairer taxation of traffic and fuel. Madam President, I would like We have given a specific opinion setting out our thoughts on these issues.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-684	Madam President, I would like I note that this debate may be a little too little about the climate and that this debate is a little too little about the enormous challenges that not only Swedish big cities, Swedish countryside or, for that matter, Swedish rural areas, but the whole world and perhaps indeed human civilisation are facing. Madam President, I would like Climate change, driven by the use of petrol and diesel, for example, is the greatest threat to human civilization that we have ever seen. Already now we see how drought knocks out farmers, knocks out farmers of all kinds and knocks out large parts of the countryside, not only in Sweden but all over the world. Even now we see how the same drought led, for example, to the establishment of the Islamic State, or Daish, in the Middle East. It was due to drought and quite likely due to climate change driven by petrol and diesel. Madam President, I would like We have a responsibility to do what we can to reduce emissions. Perhaps we in particular, who have financial resources here in Sweden and who can afford to actually do something, have a responsibility. Madam President, I would like In the run-up to the European Parliament elections, I and the Christian Democrats had a debate in this House when I asked the Christian Democrats how many degrees of warming were appropriate. After all, they went to elections to make the EU fit again and refused to support the proposal that the Liberals were pushing for a European climate tax – a carbon tax at EU level. They were unable to answer the question then, Madam President. The Christian Democrats could not answer whether it was a degree of warming – with floods, hurricanes and droughts – or whether it was two, three or perhaps even four degrees that they thought was appropriate. They also did not come up with any proposals on how to stop the climate change we are now seeing. Now, in this debate, the Christian Democrats go up to the pulpit and say that the problem with petrol taxation is that it is perceived as unfair. I wonder then how other people around the world are experiencing the climate issue, Madam President – people who have suffered droughts that have knocked out crops and caused starvation or people who have suffered hurricanes and floods. This also applies to nations that are at risk of drowning as a result of climate change. This experience seems important to the Christian Democrats. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want various breaks in politics. Earlier, when Syria was on fire, it was a refugee break; then one would pause. It was just that the war did not pause just because the Swedish Democrats wanted a refugee break. Now the Swedish Democrats want a climate break. It's just that climate change doesn't pause just because the Swedish Democrats want us to pause climate policy. We must break our dependence on oil and our dependence on fossil fuels. This requires powerful instruments and strong incentives, such as taxes that can and should be used as investments in infrastructure so that in all parts of Sweden it becomes easier to switch to and use climate-smarter vehicles. It is a question of changing, Mr President. If taxes are not collected and therefore investments cannot be made, it is clear that it will be difficult to reschedule, but if we can take in taxes that can then be used to make investments, it will be easier to reschedule. It can work to reset in all parts of Sweden. If we can also stop climate change, the whole of Sweden will suffer a little less from, for example, future droughts, floods or other extreme weather that would otherwise hit the countryside in particular. Mr President, I would like to We need to reset. I would like some parties in this House to have a little more awareness of the fact that the climate is not taking a break and that climate policy cannot do so either.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-694	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good speech, Joar Forssell! It will be a little difficult to take the discussion seriously if we create, as it were, a conflict in which those who are in favour of European taxation are environmentally friendly and those who are opposed to European taxation are, by definition, not environmentally friendly. It is therefore quite correct, Mr President, that the Christian Democrats are extremely hesitant about European taxation. We have said no to European taxation in the sense that Europe should be able to levy taxes directly to the EU in different ways. On the other hand, we have been in favour of, for example, European aviation taxation, rather than national aviation taxation, where the money is equal throughout the EU but lands in their own parliaments. It is simply that we want a fair competitive situation. As far as shipping is concerned, we have also talked about a similar form of taxation, long before, because Norwegians, Danes and English had a completely different taxation that favoured their shipping and disadvantaged Swedish shipping. The fact that there are similarities in taxation within the EU is therefore one thing, but starting taxation on the part of the EU means creating a new level of taxation. This is a difference of tone that it is quite important to have with you. Is there anything we know about politicians – including Christian Democrats, I suspect – it is that we tend to continue to want a little more tax when we have already created the new tax level. All of a sudden, we have created a fourth level, which will come up with its own proposals and ideas and finance it with its own economy. This has nothing to do with the environmental issue. We are as passionate about a good environmental policy as the Liberals, but we do not want to fund it via the European Union.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-698	Mr President, I would like to It is not just a question of carbon tax at EU level. The fact is that this debate is not really about it at all. However, I think it's interesting – and that's why it's relevant to highlight – what Christian Democrats view climate taxation and what Christian Democrats view climate. If you are going to be able to finance important investments that make it possible to reset the whole of Sweden and possible to use new fuels throughout Sweden that do not emit in the same way, it is clear that you need to get in a number of tax crowns. However, as in the debate on CO2 taxation at EU level, where the Christian Democrats were unable to respond to how many degrees of warming were appropriate, the Christian Democrats also fail in this debate to establish how important it is to stop climate change and by what clear and effective means it should be made. How do the Christian Democrats want to reduce the use of petrol and diesel? How do the Christian Democrats want to create incentives for fewer people to drive on petrol and diesel? How do the Christian Democrats want to phase out our dependence on coal? I wonder if the Christian Democrats believe that the Liberals only want to raise taxes. Because it sounds a little bit like that. That is completely wrong, Mr President. We want to increase taxes on things that are bad for the climate, but we also want to reduce taxes on things such as labour, which do not harm the climate. With the government constellation we now have, we will be able to gradually raise taxes on things that are bad for the climate and lower taxes on income, so that more can afford to change. Can the Christian Democrats stop behind that line? I wonder, Mr President.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-702	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit interesting to stand and listen here considering that in the mid-60s we were the party that for the first time in the Swedish debate raised the idea of stewardship from a social, economic and ecological perspective. Anyone who has the strength to go back and read articles from time can even see that a little disdainfully called the Christian Democrats water-and-air party. We are very pleased that more parties have adopted the idea that you actually have to work on the basis of a stewardship. We think it is positive that more parties than ours are highlighting these issues. On the theoretical side, it is no secret that we are in favour of tax shifting from what is environmentally dangerous to, for example, strategically reduced taxes that benefit labour. Work has other welfare effects – people come to work and so on. On the main issue, that is, what we think about the temperature, we are behind the climate targets on which the whole of this Parliament – I believe – agrees. We have no other opinion. We have no other idea of tax exchange, and we happened to be the first to raise the issues in the mid-60s. In concrete terms, in other debates today, we have had discussions on, for example, electrified flights. We often raise the issue of electrified roads, where we could access large amounts of CO2 in the transport sector in particular. We are in favour of nuclear power, because if we are to electrify more, we must have electricity to put into what we electrify. What is the catch – and this is linked to the social dimension of stewardship – is that we will have social problems if we only work with fuel increases, air tax increases and taxation on the individual. We must dare to look at how we make industry and the transport sector more environmentally friendly. Then we solve the problems we both want to solve.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-707	Mr President, I would like to It is no secret that even liberals far beyond the 1960s have raised the issue of climate. But it is news to me that the Christian Democrats' climate policy does not seem to have changed much since the 1960s, despite the fact that the climate debate has moved forward and despite the fact that we are increasingly seeing what climate change leads to. Despite last summer's drought here in Sweden and despite the drought that hit parts of the Middle East so hard that the Islamic State, or Daish, could take hold, Christian Democrats' climate policy has apparently stuck in the 60's. Mr President, I would like to I find it very sad. Anyone who is behind the idea of stewardship, as the Christian Democrats claim to be doing, must ask: If this earth is to be managed to our future generations, how many degrees of warming are appropriate? Is that a degree? Is that two degrees? Is it three, four or maybe five degrees? Is it management to allow climate change to continue at the speed they are now doing and just watch as the drought spreads, while hurricanes become more and while floods even drown entire nations? Is it stewardship? I don't think so. Mr President, I would like to I believe that we must have high taxes on things that are bad for the climate while taking social responsibility by reducing taxes on income and by making investments so that all parts of Sweden, no matter where you live, have infrastructure that allows you to reset. But, Mr President, the Christian Democrats still owe the answer: what are they going to do to reduce petrol consumption in Sweden?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-712	Mr President, I would like to I am not just a spokesperson for the Green Party in terms of transport policy, but I am also a substitute in the Committee on Taxation and I have had the opportunity tonight to take this debate for my colleague, Rebecka Le Moine. Mr President, I would like to We – humanity – face a great challenge. We are in an emergency for the climate. If we fail to reverse the emissions curves and significantly reduce CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, we will not achieve the Paris Agreement's objective of keeping the temperature increase well below two degrees and preferably for one and a half degrees, with disastrous consequences. The transport sector accounts for about one third of Sweden's emissions. Here we have perhaps the biggest challenge to set. The government has set an ambitious climate target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030. Road traffic accounts for over 90 per cent of the emissions of domestic transport. There needs to be a big change here. The Green Party wants to create a modern and sustainable society where it is easy for everyone to make sustainable and climate-smart choices. Fuel tax is an important instrument, which can be used both to internalise the costs caused by emissions from petrol and diesel but also to create an environmental impact. It is no secret that the Green Party did not want to see the temporary rebate on the petrol and diesel tax that was pushed through with the M-KD budget, but since it is the budget that was voted by Parliament, our government needs to relate to the announcements made in connection with the budget. Yes, I call it a discount when M and KD want to remove the cap on the indexation of the petrol tax. It is a mark-up based on the development of bnp so that the tax is not eroded. The same mark-up is also used for the calculation of the layer limit. I note that at a time when we need to focus more on how we solve our fossil dependence, the Moderates and Christian Democrats are choosing to push for a permanent discount on petrol and diesel taxes. I fully understand that the price of fuel is felt by many in society. However, taking into account the fact that vehicles have become more fuel-efficient and the development of our disposable income, driving today is not more expensive than 15 years ago. It is also important to know that the increase in fuel prices is not due to the taxation of petrol. Since February this year the price of petrol has increased by about 1.50 – from about 15 SEK to about 16.50 today for environmental class 1, although I saw that there was a place where you could refuel for 15, 95. However, no part of the rise is due to increased fuel tax, but it is due to the world market price of oil and the exchange rate. The recent rise in oil prices can be attributed to the decline in the supply of Venezuela, Libya and Opec. The Green Party's policy aims to change the transport sector so that we are independent of fossil fuels. By investing in bonuses – malus we are working towards a conversion of the vehicle fleet, and through the reduction obligation we make sure that anyone who is not able to switch to a fossil-free car today is still in the transition. Through increased electrification and increased production of domestic biofuels, such as biogas, we can both reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and reduce our sensitivity to world market fluctuations in the price of oil. We need a policy aimed at breaking our fossil dependence and setting a date for the last drop of fossil fuel to be sold. The Green Party wants the goal to be that the last drop of fossil fuel will be sold in 2030. I am opposed to this, but I would like to support the committee's proposal to support the Government's proposal.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-724	Mr President, I would like to People living in rural areas pay far too much in petrol taxes in relation to their carbon footprint. It's an injustice that I don't think should continue. The authority responsible for evaluating and analysing the impact of proposed and implemented measures in the field of transport, Trafikanalys, has found that rural people pay far more than their carbon footprint costs. In rural areas, petrol cars pay more than fully for their estimated socio-economic costs. The gasoline car pays over 180 percent of – or SEK 2.20 per mile more than – its costs. By comparison, urban residents pay only 80% of their costs. In the urban area, the diesel driver pays more than half his cost. Whatever the exact figures and details, what matters is what this tells us: Rural areas cannot continue to pay more than for their climate footprint when cities pay for as little as half of their impact. Somewhere this is what the discussion is about. That is what is at the heart of the matter: how do we put it? We cannot close our eyes to the fact that transport accounts for a large part of emissions, but with the tax instrument we must switch to a conversion. We must therefore develop more sustainable fuels. This is what we should invest our resources in. The tax system must be fair regardless of where in the country you live; it is dangerous if this instrument loses credibility. The overall tax burden needs to be reduced. A tax policy that provides a level playing field for living, living and operating businesses throughout the country is particularly important. When an individual tax has distorted consequences for some part of the country, more equal opportunities need to be created – perhaps through other reforms, such as distance-based travel deductions. Of course, that is not enough. For those living in the countryside, it is not only the trips to and from work that cost; it is also the trip to the grocery store and the ride to the children's sports training. The tax risks hitting the hardest where access to public transport is at its lowest. Those who live in the country cannot opt out of the car for the benefit of public transport or car sharing. For companies, both trucks and car-borne transport are a necessity and a prerequisite for them to be able to operate. Policies need more solutions to reduce the overall tax burden, especially in rural areas. Only lower prices of petrol would still mean that rural farmers pay more than urban ones. We cannot have such injustice. The Center Party therefore needs a broad range of reforms that strengthen infrastructure as well as businesses and jobs in rural areas. Let me be clear: the Center Party does not want an additional indexation to continue automatically from year to year. An active decision shall be required each financial year. It is important that a mark-up of this nature is periodically reviewed and analysed. It shall not be implemented automatically. We should remember that we have had an indexation for over 20 years. For rural residents, and in order to improve justice and the climate impact, we need to find reforms that mean that urban residents and rural dwellers pay fairly for their climate footprints. I support the committee's proposal.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-735	Mr President, I would like to The price of petrol and diesel is too high. That is why we in the Moderates want to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel. It is an opportunity that also the Center Party has. They can join our reservation, which makes it clear that overindexation for the years to come will be removed. The Social Democrats have made a very clear statement here today in the debate: over-indexation returns at the turn of the year and risks – or for those who so wish – to lead to a fuel price of approximately SEK 20 per litre before the end of the term of office. This is what the Center Party is signing up to today. It reintroduces the over-indexation of petrol and diesel. The Center Party will meet the Social Democrats and the Green Party with very heavy burdens in rural areas in the future. Can Helena Vilhelmsson explain here today why the Center Party has agreed to reintroduce the overindexation of petrol and diesel taxes from the turn of the year?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-739	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the honourable Member to clarify where it says that we have accepted that over-indexation should take place from next year. We are entering a budget debate. No decisions have been taken this year on fuel tax increases. No decision has been made on increased taxes. The budget we have is a result of M and KD and meant that, among other things, the consumer price index changed. So no, we will come back with the budget for next year with the budget proposal and the negotiations that are taking place with it.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-742	Mr President, I would like to It is remarkable that the Center Party, which claims to want to represent the countryside, is so poorly informed on one of the issues that are most important for the whole of Sweden to be able to live. It is clear from the bill that over-indexation should be reintroduced at the turn of the year. Hopefully, the Center Party has taken part of the bill and read it because it forms part of the government base. Only a few minutes ago, the Social Democrats have stated in this pulpit that it is clear that with this bill, overindexation will come back at the turn of the year. The Center Party responds to this: We do not know that. Let us continue to deceive our rural voters that this will not happen! But there is hope both for the countryside and for the Center Party, because Helena Vilhelmsson can give a clear message here today to the countryside: will the Center Party, or will the Center Party not let through a budget bill in this House that reintroduces the over-indexation of petrol and diesel taxes? It is free for the Center Party to give this message here today. Will, or will not, the Center Party let through a budget bill in this House that reintroduces the over-indexation of petrol and diesel, Helena Vilhelmsson? Leave a message to entrepreneurs, give a message to the people who depend on the car and give a message to Sweden's countryside! Now, do not hide behind various excuses, but respond to those who want an answer! Will, or will not, the Center Party allow a budget bill to pass in here that reintroduces the overindexation of the tax on petrol and diesel?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-747	Mr President, I would like to I have no answer to the honourable Member other than my previous reply. Next year's budget will be negotiated in the budget bill. We have clearly said – I said it in my speech, and it says in the specific opinion of the Center Party – that we believe that decisions on overindexation should be taken with the decisions of each financial year. This should be done to take account of the overall picture and to benefit the countryside, its businesses, residents and inhabitants in more ways and in more optimal ways in terms of the tax instrument than only the price of petrol. Gas prices control our consumption. It will counteract adverse climate effects, and it will also benefit entrepreneurship and housing throughout the country. In this regard, I think that the Moderates have had some strange reasoning and made some strange decisions. You have, for example, almost glamourly joked about beaver safari, as you have called it. You have not been very interested in fully reducing taxes on jobs and work under previous alliance governments. You have not been very interested in simplifying, for example, housing in rural areas. This is all about promoting overall entrepreneurship and housing in rural areas.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-750	Mr President, I would like to I wonder, Helena Vilhelmsson, what the Center wants with regard to the diesel taxes in agriculture because the Centre Party has not spoken out in this debate and because it abstained in the budget vote last autumn. There is no reservation in the process either. What does the Center want? Should there not be a further reduction in diesel tax in agriculture? Should it be a partial reduction in tax, which M and KD advocate? Or does the Center want an entire reduction in diesel tax in agriculture, as the Swedish Democrats advocate? That is one question. The second question is: how long does the Center Party want this? Will there be an end to diesel tax reductions in agriculture at the turn of the year, or can one imagine supporting the Swedish Democrats for a longer reduction?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-753	Mr President, I would like to I am actually referring to the same answer as in my previous speech. We do not want any automatic over-indexing or any CPI, but this is to be decided on in a whole for the 2020 budget and future. I believe that farmers and foresters should, of course, be compensated for the excess costs they have compared, for example, with businesses in the rest of Europe. This is extremely important for the competitive situation. This must come back in an overall discussion for next year's budget.
i-f8352389a88e7d89-756	Mr President, I would like to I wonder how the Center will vote in the vote next week. I am not talking about the index issue, I am talking about the targeted investment for farmers with reduced diesel tax. Helena Vilhelmsson argues that it is important that farmers have a similar competitive situation as farmers in the outside world. We share this view with Sweden's democrats, and that is precisely why we want to reduce diesel tax to the lowest level in the European Union. That is the diesel tax that Danish farmers have. Agriculture is under a lot of pressure, and the margins are over. If we have another dry summer, it will lead to a lot of bankruptcies. I therefore hope that the Center Party will be prepared to vote for the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 3 in the vote next week. This would be a relief for farmers and would lead to a reduction in diesel tax to the absolute lowest level – and not only for one year but for several years. It could give the pause that agriculture needs to recover power and restore margins. Farming would enter a positive spiral instead of a negative spiral, as it is today. I put a direct question to Helena Vilhelmsson: Will the Center Party vote for the Swedish Democrats' proposal in the vote next week to reduce the diesel taxes on agriculture to the lowest possible level?
i-f8352389a88e7d89-761	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party, together with the industry, wants to develop a system where both increased competitiveness and active efforts can be made to reduce the climate impact and footprint. This is not only done through a budget decision in the Riksdag; it is carried out through long-term discussions and long-term rules of play for innovation and for new technologies. I can well imagine a controlling charge where farmers who have the opportunity to use fossil-free fuels benefit from it economically. We're not there yet, but we need to discuss it in the future. We will continue to do so in the run-up to the budget proposal next year and in the run-up to future discussions.
