i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-2	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl has asked me how I intend to solve the problem of the lack of snow clearance of individual roads. A well-functioning snow clearance of our roads is an important prerequisite for ensuring good accessibility and a high level of road safety. For the sake of clarity, I would first like to clarify how the division of responsibilities is designed with regard to snow clearance of Sweden's roads. The Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for the state roads, municipalities for the municipal roads and streets. But for the individual roads, road associations or individuals are responsible for snow clearance. That is an important starting point. As part of ensuring that state funds are used properly, the Finnish Transport Agency equipped the contractors' plow cars with GPS. As a result, entrepreneurs decided not to take assignments. At first, it created a concern that individual roads would have problems with snow clearance. Already last winter, the government acted on the concerns and problems of the snow clearance of the individual roads. I have met both Trafikverket and the National Association of Individual Roads to inform me about the matter. I have called on stakeholders to work together in dialogue on long-term solutions. As a result, the parties have now set up a joint working group which has developed proposals for improvement. As a result, any concerns expressed by contractors about taking assignments from individual road managers in parallel with assignments to the Finnish Transport Agency have been reduced. It is important to give the right description of the challenges for snow clearance. The interpellation may give the impression that there are major problems for civil protection, home care and other community services to emerge. Evaluations of snow clearance do not show this. Trafikverket's re-reporting of the Government's mission to evaluate snow clearance in winter 2017 – 2018 shows the following: Despite a relatively snowy winter 2017/ 2018, Trafikverket received only a handful of phone calls from individual road keepers in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. In no case did the Finnish Transport Administration have to resort to the emergency measure to order the contractor on the state road network to plow a single road, a measure which, against the cost of the road operator, can be used in very special exceptional cases (social crisis). In contacts with REV (National Association of Individual Roads), they give a similar picture – there are probably a few road associations that have had problems with hiring an entrepreneur for winter road maintenance this year. ..................................................... I intend, of course, to follow up on this issue and have therefore now called the parties concerned to me for a meeting shortly.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my questions about snow clearance of individual roads! I had hoped that the answer would show that the government is taking the people who are now concerned about how their road will be taken more seriously this winter. Unfortunately, I feel that the Minister's response to me suggests that what I have raised in my interpellation is not a very big problem. In addition, I note that there are two major shortcomings in the Minister's response. The first is that the Minister claims that my interpellation gives the impression that there are major problems for home care, police, rescue services and ambulances to make their way on individual unexploded roads. That's not true. I'm not writing that there's a big problem with that. I write that there is a risk that such a situation may arise. There is a considerable difference, and the Minister knows it. It is perfectly possible to read what actually stands instead of making up something that no one has claimed at all. The second major flaw is the Minister's selective reading of the Swedish Transport Administration's investigative response. The Minister quotes a single sentence that the authority has received a few calls from northern Sweden and takes it to revenue because the problem does not really exist. The National Association of Individual Roads, road associations and private individuals who testify to the problems in the media thus drum phase of the lack of incoming calls to the authority in question. That people would call the authority when the problem has existed for several winters and is well known does not make any sense. And I find it hard to take the thin argument about the phone calls seriously. The fact that victims are forced to solve the problem on their own or cope with inadequate snow clearance or are forced to procure the service at large overcosts does not mean that the problem does not exist. The truth is that three centimetres below the loose words quoted by the Minister, it is black and white that the Finnish Transport Administration sees exactly the problem I describe in my interpellation. Let me quote: However, one should remember that there is a problem in some parts of northern Sweden where individual road associations have pointed out that they have had problems signing contracts with entrepreneurs for winter operation in the road association. In cases where the Swedish Transport Administration has known, the associations have received offers, but this has been associated with higher costs than in previous years. ..................................................... The Finnish Transport Agency thus confirms exactly what I and many others have said: that the time-keeping via GPS, where delays give rise to heavy fines, leads entrepreneurs to refrain from taking on jobs on individual roads, because they do not dare to take the risk. Mr President, I would like to This, in turn, leads to prices rising sharply and road associations having to pay excessive prices or have a significantly worse snow clearance than in the past. In fact, it is not serious to collide an alternative truth just to avoid having to fix a problem. Has the idea struck the Minister that the calls received by the Finnish Transport Administration are only the tip of the iceberg? After all, people's everyday lives do not revolve around authorities and their bureaucracy. There have been many meetings, action plans and discussions on the issue in question over the years. We do not yet see any solutions. That is why I, and many others with me, want to know what the Minister is going to do concretely to remedy the problem, so that we can see a difference in practice.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-20	Mr President, I would like to I notice that the reality descriptions are somewhat different, Helena Lindahl. It is strange, however, because we have similar experiences of what it means to grow up in rural areas and in sparsely populated areas. I myself come from Kosta with 800 inhabitants and remember very well how sometimes it could be full of snow and problems with snow clearance. But I'm careful where the responsibility lies. The state is responsible for the state road network. Individual road managers are responsible for the individual road network. I think it is right and reasonable that when they procure a service, the Finnish Transport Administration ensures that they also get it done. That's the point of the gps label. I wonder if Helena Lindahl thinks that one should have refrained from making such a gps label. I think it is reasonable for the state to be careful about how to use its resources so that they are not used incorrectly. I think it is unfortunate when one paints the picture that we would have major problems with accessibility or that there would be a risk of lack of accessibility for ambulances or rescue services. It does not increase the attractiveness of living in rural areas if it is thought to be an obvious risk. That is not the case. However, it is of course important that the Finnish Transport Administration, which does not perform any snow clearance, which is important to remember, has a dialogue with hauliers and individual road keepers and sees how to find solutions. That's why the reference to the phone calls was important. For it turned out that in not so many cases one perceived that one had problems. And when you had it, you found common solutions. For me, this is an important issue, because I want the whole country to live. I want it to be possible to live in the whole country and that it should be good quality and not least road safety wherever you are. Then we must find good solutions. Therefore, just as I initiated the collaboration that was with the Swedish Transport Administration and the National Association of Individual Roads, I have now called the actors to continue to follow up on this issue. In this sense, this interpellation debate is good, because it shows that we maintain the knowledge and awareness that there must be good and safe snow clearance throughout the country. But I also think it is important to be honest in the description of the relationship of responsibility. Individual road owners receive state subsidies to manage to maintain their snow clearance. Then, of course, we have a common interest in ensuring that we make the best use of state resources. We cannot allow a system whereby you take double invoicing from hauliers to drive both for the Finnish Transport Administration and for individual road keepers, but here you have to ensure that you clarify and carry out the tasks for which you have actually paid. I believe that we basically have common points of departure. But I also believe that it is fundamentally important that we give a fair description of what the division of responsibilities actually looks like in terms of snow clearance. I will continue to follow up on this. We have also called on the operators this time to ensure that there is a good dialogue before the winter and that, for example, it is clear from the Swedish Transport Administration that fines are not given to a great extent. There is no example where a delay of ten minutes has resulted in a penalty payment. This has not happened, and according to Trafikverket it is unlikely to happen either. Therefore, I think that the discussion about the fact that a penalty payment would discourage operators from taking different orders needs to be balanced in this context. I hope for good dialogue between the actors again this time, and I hope that this winter too will be a good and workable snow clearance.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-30	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, but I'm having a bit of a hard time trusting what the minister says. A look in the rear-view mirror unfortunately shows that the Minister has, I have to say, an elastic way of dealing with the truth. In the summer of 2018, the debate on snow clearance had raged for a long time and was also the subject of an election debate. I pushed the question in the election. As by chance, the minister appeared in one of my local newspapers, Västerbottens Folkblad, and announced that the situation was not acceptable. I think that was great. I brought that interview with me, and I've been following a little field that I thought I'd read out. This is what the Minister says: There have been shortcomings in the procurement of individual roads that have meant the risk of roads not being snowed. That's why we've given this assignment so that we can get a basis to ensure proper snow clearance for the next winter. This cannot be misinterpreted. The Minister clearly says that Trafikverket has been given the assignment because snow clearance of the individual road did not work. The mission would provide a basis and ensure working snow clearance already until the next winter – which is now. I also have with me how the mission of the Minister was formulated. In fact, it is written in two places that it relates to road and rail. It is therefore of the utmost importance that snow clearance works right there. There is not a word about individual ways, as the article did. As is well known, individual paths are not state-owned, and this means, in short, that Tomas Eneroth, as a minister, was not actually completely truthful in Västerbotten's Folkblad on an important issue just before the election. It is possible that this might be beneficial to the Social Democrats, Mr President. But it is not favorable for the people who live out of individual roads in the north and who do not know whether their roads will be plowed in winter or not. We have had quite a few meetings, development plans and so on. My question to the Minister is therefore: what will the Minister do to remedy the problem so that affected people can see the difference in practice? The Minister promised it would happen this winter.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-38	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl! We've been acting. We have ensured that there is a collaboration between Trafikverket and REV, we have given the assignment that Helena Lindahl refers to and we are now also following up. That's how you act. I'm a little curious if Helena Lindahl wants us to change the conditions of responsibility so that the government will take responsibility for road maintenance on individual roads. She has not expressed this in any other context. Is it a nationalization on the approach of the Center Party? It's hard for me to see. But changing the division of responsibilities would be within reach. The basic question is, of course, who is responsible for snow clearance on individual roads. I still think Helena Lindahl can answer that. The state has responsibilities, but I cannot give any government mission to cope with snow clearance on individual roads. There is no such relationship of responsibility. On the other hand, the state must work together, and that is what you do. Cooperation with local and regional actors should be ensured. You have to make sure that there are hauliers who are ready to take on the mission. This is also particularly important because the Swedish Transport Administration has no snow clearance of its own. I am not going to suggest this either, but it is usually local and regional haulage companies that provide such services and services. Does Helena Lindahl want to initiate a change there? I believe that the present system is working well. I think it is good to have regional coordination and to ensure dialogue. We have not seen that there are obvious major shortcomings, but we must constantly ensure that cooperation is developed and improved. That is why I have called the actors to me, and that is why I have ensured that we once again have a meeting where we are discussing the potential risks of snow clearance for this winter. I do not think, however, that we should back up the requirement to GPS-mark the vehicles, because it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration has control of and follow up on where government orders go and how to use the resources. The basic question then goes back: Does Helena Lindahl want us to change the division of responsibilities when it comes to individual roads? Today, we are making a state contribution to individual road managers because they are responsible, among other things, for dealing with snow clearance and the management of their individual roads. Is this division of responsibilities to be changed, and hence the allocation to individual roads? I have seen that this system has worked for quite a long time in Sweden, and I think it would be unfortunate to change it.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-46	Mr President, I would like to It is very interesting that the Minister is starting to hold me accountable when it is the Minister himself who has gone out publicly and promised that this would be resolved for this winter. I think there are quite a few people who are thinking about why the Minister is not holding it, because unlike me, I think the Minister has the tools to put his foot down. The present system is not working well at all. In that case, we would not be debating this issue now, and in that case, people would not be expressing themselves in the media and on social media or getting in touch to the extent that they actually do. No one has said anything about GPS marking on vehicles being bad in itself. It is clear that the state must review its costs, and you also need to see where you have your vehicles. No one has said anything about it. The only problem is that, with the introduction of this GPS marking and the threat of a penalty, entrepreneurs do not dare to take on these missions, although they still pass the individual roads while plowing public roads. This is what the Minister knows. This is a big question. When 82-year-old Laila in Storgranberg in Vilhelmina Municipality grew up, she had to take the skis to school. Last year she got rid of the ploughing and risks having to pull out the skis again. The reason was that the Swedish Transport Administration's subcontractor did not want to take on snow clearance due to the agency's new time rules. The home service in Robertsfors sometimes finds it difficult to travel on unexploded roads, especially individual roads. This is a consequence of the Swedish Transport Administration's time rules. In Kanaan Road Association outside Vilhelmina last winter they had to settle for ploughing on Thursdays. The subcontractors of the Finnish Transport Agency no longer dared to plow their village road because of the time rules. As people know, it is not only snowing on Thursdays in northern Sweden. Moreover, the cost is sky-high, and the road association's cashier simply is not enough to hire a private entrepreneur who drives miles only to plow a one - kilometer road. I think the Minister is also aware of this.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-53	Mr President, I would like to First of all, Helena Lindahl, we agree that GPS labelling is a good thing. The state should be careful how to use its resources, so that's good. Secondly, I assume that we agree that there should be no change in the division of responsibilities. It is therefore the individual road keepers who are responsible for snow clearance on their roads. Thirdly, we are also likely to agree that if this is to be resolved, we need to have a well-functioning cooperation. And how do we arrange such a thing? Fourthly, by having working groups in common and by calling together the actors, as I am doing this time too, and by ensuring that responsibility is taken so that we do not have a system in which shortcomings lead to a significant deterioration in service. But it is important that all actors also take responsibility, both the Finnish Transport Agency and the entrepreneurs that exist regionally. This also applies to those responsible for the individual roads. This is a joint responsibility that all actors must take to ensure both road safety and well-functioning snow clearance. It is about being able to live, live, grow and function in rural areas as well. This applies not least in Västerbotten and Norrbotten, where it snows more than at home in Småland and Kosta. I think we fully agree on that.
i-2oop1cAVy85B2Di7bJfscx	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister Åsa Lindhagen. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-58	Madam President, I would like In Sweden there are now increasing local electricity problems. Last week I met Ola Hugoson in Ystad. He runs the company Polychemistry, which cannot grow and hire because the electrical system is not enough. Trelleborg Port, Pågen, Ecolean and a number of other companies are in the same situation. The Government has introduced taxes on local electricity production in cogeneration plants, which has resulted in the closure of electricity production in Malmö, Stockholm and Gothenburg. And the government is proposing additional taxes on local electricity production. Experts agree that the fastest way to secure electricity in Skåne, among others, would be for the government to remove taxes to secure the important local electricity generation. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister Anders Ygeman if the government is prepared to remove the tax on local electricity production in cogeneration plants and to refrain from tax on waste incineration when one sees the serious and negative effects it has had on both industry and society around Sweden.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-61	Madam President, I would like The short answer to Lars Helmered's question is no. On the other hand, the government is prepared to take a number of strong measures to enable the business community in Skåne to continue to expand and to enable the business community in Stockholm to continue to expand. I hope that the measures expressed by Lars Helmered have actually not happened.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-63	Madam President, I would like There are several companies that cannot grow and employ as they want and wish, which is remarkable. Experts generally agree that the government has worsened the situation in Stockholm and Malmö in addition to the existing agreement on energy. Business start-ups, electric buses and new residential areas in Stockholm, for example, are threatened by potential power shortages locally. Is the government prepared to say that it has made a mistake and is backing from these taxes to secure electricity generation in the capital, among other things?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-65	Madam President, I would like I answered the question in my first speech. The background is that all types of energy must bear their own climate costs. However, the government is prepared to take other measures and in dialogue with the companies ensure good access to impact in both Skåne and Stockholm. In Sweden there are now the largest electricity surpluses ever. There has never been as much electricity exported from Sweden as now. The government is, of course, prepared to take the necessary measures to ensure that the huge surplus of electricity also goes to the customers and users who so badly need it.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-69	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen. Just recently, as you know, the National Security Survey was published, which again shows rather gloomy figures. Some examples that I will now highlight relate to women aged 20-24. More than 34 percent say that they have been subjected to sexual crimes. 49 percent of the same age group say that they are afraid of being subjected to rape or any other sexual attack. 45 percent in the same age group say that they have often chosen to take another route to avoid being attacked. It is serious when women blame themselves for trying to avoid being attacked.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-73	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the honourable Member for raising such important questions. This is about two parts. One is security here and now. We need reinforcements for the police. Strengthening the police is one of the government's top priorities. There will now be more employees in the police who will work specifically with rape and that kind of crime. It is extremely important that there should be consequences for those who commit the crimes. The second part is that we need to work preventively to end violence in society. This does not only require the legislation on consent that has been put in place, which is an incredibly important step forward in the fight to create an equal society. We must also create a culture of consent. We do not accept violence and abuse against women. We do not accept that you are not safe at your workplace, as the metoo calls have clearly shown that women and girls are not. We do not accept that you are not safe in the public space. There is an enormous amount to do with creating a culture of consent in Sweden.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I myself belong to this age group, so the question becomes in a way personal to me. I do not really question the fact that the government has high ambitions when it comes to gender equality. However, I question, and probably many women with me, why we should trust the government in this respect. When can we expect a real improvement in our security?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-78	Madam President, I would like It is a long-term work that is going on. We will not eradicate the violence this parliamentary term. Do we need to do more? Yes, we do. We need to tighten up the legislation, we need to strengthen the police and we need to work on prevention. These are extremely priority issues. It will take time to eradicate violence, but that's where we're going. We're going to get rid of the violence. Women and girls should be safe on our streets, in public transport and in their workplaces.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-82	Madam President, I would like My question is also addressed to Minister Åsa Lindhagen. It applies to the Swedish Sex Purchase Act, which this year has been in existence for 20 years. The symbolic value is still very strong today. The woman is not a commodity, but the buyer is the criminal. The law is a role model in many parts of the world. Trafficking in human beings is a lucrative market. The UN estimates that the criminal networks make about 7 billion dollars from prostitution. It is most profitable in the world after the drug and arms trade. The Internet has given the market more space and is used to recruit victims. Strangely enough, there is still resistance to the existence of the law. It is resistance that, in my view, does not argue on the basis of the reality that our policemen face on the Internet, on the streets and in the apartments they make strikes. The organisation RFSL recently issued a position to abolish the law. It's completely free to do that. But it is an organization that is out at schools around the country to lecture on sex and cohabitation, and that complicates the matter. How will the Minister and Government work forward to protect and strengthen the Swedish sex purchase legislation?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-87	Madam President, I would like I understood that the question was about how we should work to strengthen and protect the Sex Purchase Act. The starting point of the questions is the feminist big victory with the metoo roll call, that is, we began to put the shame and the blame where it belongs, namely with the perpetrator. It is also the starting point of the Sex Purchase Act, that is to say, that we place the blame where it belongs, namely with the sex buyer. That starting point must characterise the work we are doing in the future. Policies must always be on the side of the vulnerable, and the vulnerable must be protected and supported. And we will continue to work because there will be consequences if you commit crimes against other people.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-89	Madam President, I would like It sounds safe, and it leads me into the next idea. Despite the 20th anniversary celebrations, the number of defendants is very low and the number of convicted according to the Sex Purchase Act is even lower. A quarter of all reported crimes lead to sentences, most are fines and much less is prison. Me and the Center Party believe that we should instead strengthen the Sex Purchase Act and look at how to get the verdicts across the entire scale of penalties, not just fines. Perhaps we should also look at increased minimum and maximum penalties. How does the Minister feel about such thinking?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-91	Madam President, I would like I think that we must always be transparent in order to review the legislation and see how it works. The Sex Purchase Act is celebrating its 20th anniversary this year. What I also think about is how extremely important what is done in the police is. It is both about strengthening the police in general and about that the police are currently working to hire more people who are going to work with rapes and other types of serious crimes. If you are exposed to these crimes, you should also be able to get support and help from the rule of law. That is also an important part of this.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-93	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. DN reports four out of five municipalities to cut back. The elderly care is pointed out as a savings box. We see it coming. Older and very sick at accommodation is suggested to be left alone at night. The examples are many. Welfare needs upgrading, not downgrading. The government chooses to reduce the tax for those with the highest salary – 6 billion in reduced military tax for the richest. There is more money for Danne in Djursholm, which endangers Ulla's dementia team. Madam President, I would like How can the Government guarantee that the elderly themselves will escape the crisis that the municipalities have and can feel confident that care works?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-97	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for raising an important issue when it comes to welfare, with a special focus on elderly care. I think it is important that we all succeed in having such a focus. Like many others in the newspapers, I read about how to make blankets in different municipalities instead of turning up the heat. You pull in the hot food, and instead you buy portions at Hemköp. When the Swedish Democrats take over the government in Sölvesborg, the first thing to do is to interrupt the right to full time for the employees. The examples can be made more. This concerns me very much. Then what does the government do? We make various efforts to strengthen opportunities for good welfare. It's about welfare billions. They have been mentioned many times, and I am very pleased that so many more parties are now joining and realise that welfare needs to be strengthened. I do not think it is a secret that the tax cuts we are making definitely need to be balanced with investments in municipalities and regions.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-100	Madam President, I would like Older care needs upgrading. There is a need for trained staff and better accommodation. You don't have to be alone when you're older. In these times when more and more older people are on the threshold, so to speak, we must do our utmost to make their lives feel good and safe. Madam President, I would like How, then, will the Government explain to the elderly that it was Danne in Danderyd, who earns 100,000 a month, who needed reduced taxes, while it is to be cut back on the care of the elderly?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-102	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to try to explain it, because it doesn't make any sense. What we are doing now is trying to strengthen and help the municipalities, which are responsible for organising good quality care for the elderly. It is, of course, important that municipalities ensure that they have the necessary tax revenues and see that more and more people are getting older and therefore recruit staff and have an attractive working environment so that more people want to work there. This is the government's absolute ambition. Again a big thank you for the focus on elderly care! I hope we can continue to discuss it.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-105	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Energy Ygeman. Power and capacity shortages are serious. We see business investment being halted and threatened because electricity supply cannot be guaranteed throughout our country. One of the keys to meeting this is the availability of cogeneration. The Government has previously underlined the importance of power and district heating. The Energy Agreement also makes this clear. I heard only last summer's Government say: I'm giving the industry the right thing to do. We need to provide long-term conditions so that they dare to invest in cogeneration. In view of this and the precarious situation, it is therefore remarkable that the government is moving forward with strong tax increases that are hitting local production and aggravating the situation. Madam President, I would like In what way does the Government believe that substantially increased taxes favour the competitiveness of power and district heating and facilitate local supply?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-110	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for the question! It is simply the case that we do not want to subsidise any kind of force. We do not want to subsidise those who burn fossils. This would mean that they would have a lower tax burden than, for example, the nuclear power that some parties advocate. We want a level playing field and no subsidies. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that no local power generation has been shut down. It has been warned against, but the same company has also said that they are prepared to have a discussion about pushing their power generation forward. I welcome that discussion. But I will not want to contribute to subsidising fossil fuel burning in the year when the climate may have been discussed most of all.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-112	Madam President, I would like Then I put the question this way: does Minister Ygeman think that the cogeneration tax and the planned waste incineration tax are compatible with the Energy Agreement, where we agree jointly to safeguard the district heating sector?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-113	Madam President, I would like Yes, absolutely! One of the cornerstones of the energy agreement is that we should not subsidise certain types of power. That is why we removed the impact tax on nuclear power because it distorted competition. That is why we are together to discuss how we can remove the subsidies for wind power and green electricity certificates. The basis is that each force will survive on its own premises. I am prepared to take other measures, together with Camilla Brodin, to ensure that cogeneration continues to be competitive in Sweden.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-115	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Tomas Eneroth. Sweden is the best in the world at road safety, thanks to the zero vision. We have seen a steady decline in the number of road deaths. However, last year the trend broke when more than 25 per cent more people died in traffic than in 2017. The large increase was in the regional road network. Today, the Swedish Transport Administration estimates that a invested crown in the regional road network would make more use of the number of fatalities in traffic compared to taking further action in the state road network. The problem is that the Finnish Transport Administration is only allowed to use its resources for measures in the state road network. Therefore, my question to Tomas Eneroth is: Is he prepared to allow the Finnish Transport Administration to use its resources also to co-finance measures in the regional road network to reduce the number of fatalities?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-119	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Gellerman, for the commitment to road safety! Sweden is the world leader in road safety. We launched the zero vision, and it has been pioneering in reducing the number of deaths and injuries in traffic both in Sweden and in many other countries in the world. This is actually one of the reasons why we in Sweden have been appointed to have the world's largest road safety conference in February next year, when the whole world comes here and talks about road safety. But we shouldn't be happy. We need to be able to push down the number of people killed and injured in traffic more. And we do, among other things, by giving the Finnish Transport Agency the right and the opportunity to take road safety measures also on the regional road network in the 2018 national plan. In fact, that possibility now exists. You can co-finance mine barriers and thus get safer traffic not just on the state road network.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-122	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the very positive answer! I wonder a little how much has been done, whether this work has started and whether they have been given that opportunity in their regulatory letters.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-124	Madam President, I would like There is such a process going on, and Trafikverket has announced that in the coming years it intends to spend 8 to 9 billion on, among other things, central railings. Part of this is possible to co-finance precisely on the regional road network. Then, of course, other actors also have a responsibility with the county plans to ensure road safety. We must all – from municipalities and regions to the state – work to be even better at bringing down the number of people killed and injured in traffic.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-127	Madam President, I would like Addressing socio-economic inequalities is one of the biggest challenges facing healthcare. I was very pleased when, a few years ago, the fees were removed to carry out mammography surveys. It has had amazing effects. I think that many of us are reading various budget movements and other things, and I was a little surprised when I read the Christian Democrats' budget motion which says that they propose to remove the free mammography because they prioritise more accurate efforts than those introduced by the government.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-130	I would like to remind you that matters should relate to the duties of the Minister of State and nothing else.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-131	Madam President, I would like The government has been doing a very active job for a long time when it comes to improving opportunities for equal cancer care. Regional cancer centres are now all over the country. We know that survival is increasing. This is due to standardised health care processes, active work in research and much more. But it is clear that it also plays a very important role when we are able to have free screening, which means that opportunities are given to everyone. My mission as Minister of Social Affairs is, of course, also to ensure that we have equal and equivalent health care in general and, not least, cancer care throughout the country. It is incredibly central, I would say, that we have those opportunities, because there are groups that may not be both screening and other things because money matters. I would really like to emphasise the need for us to do all we can together for equal and equal health care and cancer care.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-134	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to discuss free mammography with the Minister for Social Affairs. I can note that in my home region of Stockholm, about 70% participated in the mammography before the fee-free. In Skärholmen the figure was 58 per cent. When the fees were removed, participation in Stockholm increased by 3 per cent and in Skärholmen by 6 per cent. There were 4,000 more women carrying out mammography tests, and 30 cases of breast cancer were found. The introduction of free mammography has thus had a fantastic effect in increasing equality in healthcare.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-136	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Dag Larsson for asking the question as a man. This is an issue that, one might think, affects half the population – all women who can be affected and who undergo mammography. But, of course, this also affects all men who have women in their vicinity. This is the most common cancer among women. We know that survival is increasing, and it is not least thanks to the research that is taking place.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-138	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Tomas Eneroth. The Green Party has pushed for the government to invest in train connections in Europe. The Öresund bridge connecting Sweden to Denmark and the rest of Europe is operated by many trains. Both passenger and freight traffic take the road over the Öresund Bridge. The Öresund Bridge serves Sweden well. M a it also makes us vulnerable, because how will the trains reach the continent if the bridge for some reason cannot be used? The only alternative route for trains to the continent is the ferry from Trelleborg. There are ferry services for trains so far, but Stena Line, which operates the railway ferry, states that it is expensive and complex to operate this service. It is not certain that they are prepared to continue with traffic – and certainly not to invest in new ferries with rail on board.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Berginger, for raising an incredibly important issue! We are now investing a great deal in rail travel and on the rail system. We are currently making the biggest railway investment in modern times. We're building new, we're renovating and we're making sure that more people can go by train because more people want to go by train, because it's climate smart. A large part of the train connections to the continent are via the Öresund Bridge, and it is important that we increase the conditions for other connections as well. I have been noticed, not only by Stena Line, but also by the Municipality of Trelleborg and the Port of Trelleborg, at the situation that is likely to arise if traffic from Trelleborg cannot continue. That is why I have visited the port of Trelleborg and talked to Stena Line, and I now invite the operators and Swedish transport buyers to a meeting to discuss the conditions for not least continued freight transport on other roads than just the Öresund Bridge. It is important from a variety of angles – both in terms of redundancy and in order to ensure more train traffic out on the continent.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-145	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Tomas, for that answer! It sounds positive that we want to carry out this meeting, hopefully in the near future. The Green Party wants to change the transport sector and get both more people and more goods to travel on the railways. Then we must have a robust railway with more opportunities to drive trains to the continent. This issue is also something of a security issue because Sweden becomes very vulnerable with only one connection to the continent.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-148	Madam President, I would like In fact, we are taking several measures. We are renovating the entire Swedish railway system and building new ones. In addition, we are now working through strategic work in what is called the good strategy to increase the proportion of goods travelling on our railways. It is both rail operators and freight companies and transport buyers who are now changing their travel patterns. But then we must also ensure that there are good roads, and that is, among other things, a question of securing transport from Trelleborg to the continent.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-150	Madam President, I would like Last week I visited Polychemistry in Ystad. It's a company with 300 employees if you want to expand. Everything is in place: financing, premises and machines. Only electricity is missing. According to the network owners, no power can be expected until 2029 at the earliest. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister Ygeman whether he thinks Polychemistry should wait ten years to expand or move to another country where the government is more responsive to the needs of companies.
i-kPibqo7b7SVhsRhXCTq8T	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for the question! Just a small piece of information: I assume you, since you have visited the company Polychemistry, know that they have not submitted any request to the network owner to increase its impact. When they do, they will surely find out if there is any effect to take out exactly where they are or not. In any case, the answer to your two questions is of course: No, we will work to ensure that both Polychemistry and other companies in Skåne and in the Stockholm region can grow and expand. On the other hand, the electricity grid is designed in such a way that you cannot increase as much as possible at any given time, because then you and I, as electricity consumers, would have to pay incredible overprices for our electricity grid. A server hall that we now connect can draw as much power as the whole of Uppsala, Sweden's fourth largest city, and therefore it will be so that if you are to connect such large electricity users online they will either have to wait a while or lie down in the regions where we have large surpluses of power.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-154	Madam President, I would like I would like to know how the government intends to work to solve these problems. It is not good enough to blame the companies for not applying and not talking to the network owners. You want to continue with the tax on waste incineration. You do not want to pave the way for the development of nuclear power. In Skåne there are both capacity shortages and power shortages. The responsibility lies with the government.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-155	Madam President, I would like We have tenfold doubled the expansion of the electricity grid in Sweden. The next few years we will build ten times as much power lines as have been built in the last 30 years. In connection with this, we will ensure that the companies in Skåne and everywhere else in Sweden have plenty of electricity to expand. We have historically large electricity surpluses in Sweden.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-157	I would like to remind everyone, both ministers and Members, that we in this House are speaking through the President and not directly to the person asking the question.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-158	Madam President, I would like I address my question to the Minister for Social Affairs. I want to raise the controversial bill that 15-year-olds should be able to undergo sex correction without the consent of guardians. In the government investigation that forms the basis of the bill, it is believed that genital surgery at an early age can be the difference between life and death. It is a claim that has proved to be unsupported. There is no evidence that young patients with sex dysphoria are taking their lives waiting for surgery, which has been a well-used argument from government representatives to get legislation in place. In view of the large lack of evidence in terms of sex-confirmation treatment and, not least, of the incorrect data on suicide risk, I wonder whether the Government intends to take this into account in the further work and handling of the bill.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-161	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Clara Aranda, for coming up again! There are no legislative proposals that anyone needs to take a stand on right now. It's important that it comes out. In addition, there are no legislative proposals that mean that at 15-year-olds you can easily get in touch with the care and wish for sexual surgery. It is always a matter of extraordinary reasons. It's always a matter of the profession's trial. To clarify the concepts, so that we do not once again leave the House with misunderstandings, I would like to say that a legislative proposal was drawn up for referral and for the Law Council. It's been criticized. We have not moved on with this proposal, but are working on it. I assume that Clara Aranda has also met the people who are affected, those who perceive that they are in the wrong body and who suffer from so-called gender dysphoria. I assume that she does not simply dismiss it by saying that there are no problems here. Of course it's a great suffering. What proposals we politicians are going to put forward is an issue that lies ahead of us.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-167	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Young transgender people in need of care should receive help and treatment based on good evidence and proven experience. Gender-confirming care can today be seen as an experiment in which the obvious consequences of these vital interventions are not taken seriously. My final question, therefore, is whether the Government will work to ensure that young transgender people's right to evidence-based and safe care is ensured.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-170	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that the legislation that Sweden has today dates from the 1970s. It hasn't changed so far. It is the profession that governs care in Sweden. I hope and assume that this will continue to be the case. Party politics should not govern what care people receive. We as governments, who are preparing legislative proposals, and Members of Parliament, who are legislating, are responsible for listening and ensuring that the profession has the necessary tools. But of course all care should be safe, qualitative and reliable.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-174	Madam President, Mr Eneroth, the President-in-Office of the Council. In order to achieve the target of fewer deaths and serious injuries in traffic, the Finnish Transport Agency is now implementing a reduction in the speed of a number of rural roads across the country. As a result, accessibility, another objective of road transport policy, suffers. It is about accessibility in terms of scope and size, in which geography I as a citizen can be active in my working life and education. It's also about the people I meet. The understanding of the speed reduction that is being carried out is in danger of failing because no measures other than signposting are taken. My question to the Government is: would it not be more effective to apply dynamic speed regulation based on road law, traffic intensity, daylight and so on? In this way, accessibility is likely to be less affected and the understanding of the measure is significantly greater.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-177	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for the commitment! It is nice to know that there is a great deal of commitment in Sweden to road safety issues. We are the world leader and work systematically with the zero vision. Speed kills. We know that. There is a clear correlation between the speed you hold and the result of a frontal collision. That is one of the reasons why we are working on speed reductions, but also on central railings, to ensure that frontal collisions are avoided. I believe that we sometimes need to work more to increase accessibility, not least in rural areas. In order to avoid speed reductions, we can, in addition to the state road network, use the centre rails and co-finance it regionally. In this way, we maintain a higher speed and, at the same time, avoid the risk of a collision. We can combine good road safety with ensuring that you do not get long commuting times. It is a way that could be effective, along with dynamic speed setting.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Eneroth, for your positive answer! However, that was not the answer to my question. I myself have exercised in this House the possibility of cofinancing with regional and state resources in order to achieve more middle rails in order to maintain accessibility. I am very pleased with the way the government handled that initiative. However, my question was: should not dynamic speed regulation be a better tool than static signs, which are a very cheap but – I am afraid – ineffective measure because people do not understand it?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-183	Madam President, I would like It's true. But the most effective medium in the near future has been the centre railing. It has been important to deal with the discussion in rural areas in terms of speed reductions. I'm open to dynamic signs too. It exists as a trial. Let's try it out. And let us see with the experts at Trafikverket what is within reach to get even fewer injured and killed in traffic.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-186	Madam President, I would like Patient safety is under threat. Since last week, planned operations have been cancelled in several regions because the new provider of medical supplies has not been able to carry out its task. Five regions and the National Board of Health and Welfare have gone up in staff positions, and patients in need of care are severely affected in an already strained health care organization. Today, almost 140 000 people are illegally waiting in line for specialist care or surgery. There is now a lack of a forecast for when the deliveries will work properly. It is good that Region Uppsala has decided to introduce a security warehouse where there should be sufficient equipment to prevent this happening in the future. Madam President, I would like I wonder what measures the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government have taken, both in the acute crisis and in order to strengthen crisis preparedness to prevent this serious shortage from occurring again.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-190	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for a question that I understand many are thinking about! Even if you do not live in any of the five regions concerned, it is clear that you take part of this and think about what the status of the staff is, how serious it is and what is happening. It is serious when people who are going to undergo a planned operation cannot have it carried out and when the reason is neither lack of space nor a lack of professional or skills. Nor is it a lack of time, but a lack of medical supplies. There must be better preparedness. It's not just me. It also says MSB to the regions. It is serious criticism that is being made. Each region needs to look at the level of preparedness. I would like to emphasise the importance of robust contracts when making procurements. It is obvious that something in this shortcoming is missing. On October 1st, a new supplier would take over. The lack of medical supplies arose just as quickly.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-195	Madam President, I would like My question was about what measures the Minister for Social Affairs and the Government has taken in this situation. It is clear to us Christian Democrats that there is a need for a clearer state leadership of health care. Having what today is unreasonable, that is, where you live in the country will determine your chance to survive a difficult diagnosis. I wonder whether the Minister for Social Affairs shares the view of the Christian Democrats that the current crisis in health equipment is yet another sign of the need for clearer national governance of health care.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-197	Madam President, I would like There were many questions in one to answer in 30 seconds. Survival of difficult diagnoses should in no way be confused with the situation that has now arisen. I would like to emphasise that very much. The National Board of Health and Welfare is the government's tools and tools and has been involved in the matter. This has been done through national cooperation conferences and by ensuring that there is an opportunity for neighbouring regions to assist, as has happened. Let me also just say that mistakes could also occur if it were the responsibility of the state. If there had then been a single buyer for the whole country, they might have had the same material shortage throughout Sweden.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-200	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. The Government visited Västernorrland at the beginning of this week and heard about the future opportunities of the county, that further efforts will be required on our railways and that the new Ostcoast Line soon needs to be built. Both people and businesses already want to travel and transport in a sustainable way. This is evident to us who each week travel by train. Trains are fully booked. It is gratifying that more people choose trains, but this has also led to an increase in travel time. With a single track, the whole system is vulnerable. We want to live more sustainably. The railway is a superior environmentally friendly alternative when we want to transport both ourselves and goods. Therefore, I would like to ask how the Government views the construction of the climate-smart double track between Härnösand, Sundsvall and Gävle.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-204	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that it is climate-smart to travel by train. That is why we are making the biggest railway effort in modern times. We do so after years of underinvestment, because it was more important to reduce tax instead of investing in infrastructure that allows us to meet climate goals but also to hold the country together and strengthen the competitiveness of companies that want to send goods by train. One of the great innovations we had when we presented the national infrastructure plan was the investment on the East Coast Line. It was over SEK 8.1 billion. This is therefore an important initiative. In Västernorrland County alone, we spend a total of 10 billion on infrastructure investments. We do this in order to link the country better, increase the opportunity for climate-smart travel and, above all, ensure that more people have the opportunity to travel on their own and ship goods with the railways. This is Sweden's opportunity to meet the climate targets.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-206	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tomas Eneroth, for your answer. The expansion of double tracks between Härnösand, Sundsvall and Gävle can halve travel times and double capacity. This benefits the climate as well as passengers and freight. In addition, a double track connects northern Sweden with southern Sweden. When does the Minister of Infrastructure think we can open the new East Coast Line, our long-awaited double track?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-208	Madam President, I would like On the last question, I fit. I've learned that from the risks of delays and other things. However, we are investing more than ever. There's a lot of pressure. We've noticed that this summer. More people want to ride trains. On some routes it is a doubling or multiple doubling. That's good, because it shows that people are engaged in the climate transition. They take their own responsibility, just like companies that send goods. What I can be clear about is that the government continues to invest in climate change and is making the biggest railway investment in modern times. The Ostcoast Line also benefits.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-210	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Ygeman a question about the lack of capacity in the electricity grids, as several other speakers have done. However, I would like to stress that this is not a lack of efficiency, that is to say a lack of electricity, but a lack of capacity, which is a shortcoming in the transmission of electricity from where it is produced to where it is used. This shortcoming is quite serious, especially for Stockholm and Malmö. It is because we have not expanded the core network and the local networks in the way we should have. It is good that the Government says that in the next ten years we will build more than we have done in the last 30 years. The problem is that it takes ten years to build this. It takes far too long in a situation where the shortage is acute. My question is not the same as that of some of the others here, who had some general questions about electricity. I wonder how we can shorten the times to build this from ten years to much shorter time. What can the authorities do? What can we get out of the investigation that was done? How can you make the nets smarter? How can we raise the level of ambition?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-213	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Martin Ådahl, for the question! It is true that the report by the Online Concession Investigation and Elisabet Falemo has been sent out for consultation. There are important proposals that can halve the roll-out of electricity networks for certain important parts and cut off several years of construction time for others. However, I do not think that is enough. Everyone who is part of this, municipalities, county administrative board, Swedish power network and government, must take their part. In the debate, it can sometimes be a little entertaining when the same municipality that has stopped the electricity grid building in its own municipality then complains that they have power or capacity shortages. After all, all of us in this House know that it is very difficult to get electricity if you do not have wires. The time to build power lines is going down. We are tenfold doubling the investment, but we are also going to make sure that we greatly reduce the time it takes to get new electricity lines in place.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-216	Madam President, I would like Sounds good. It is also hoped that this will be delivered. My question also concerned the level of ambition of the core network, which is also lagging behind. There have been requests from many different quarters for this to be reinforced.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-217	Madam President, I would like We have ten times the pace of the construction of the tribal network compared to the early 2000s. There we have a very high ambition. You can hope we deliver, but it's like Obamas's Hope said: In every part of this journey, we have to make sure to push down times. We must ensure that more processes are parallel rather than sequential. In this way, we save important time in the process.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-220	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eneroth. Sweden is a long country with great distances. It is also a country that is dependent on trade. Therefore, aviation is a variant of public transport that primarily captures long distances and large parts of Sweden. It also benefits us in our trade. It has come to our attention that SAS has decided to move some routes from Arlanda to Copenhagen. Possibly, it's business-wise for them. I don't evaluate it. It is a fact, however. This raises my question to the Government and the Government, Madam President. What does the government intend to do to strengthen Swedish aviation? It is incredibly important that we have a well-functioning flight. My second question is: what does the government intend to do to strengthen Arlanda?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-222	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that aviation is important for Sweden. We are an export-dependent industrial country. We are heavily dependent on having good communications with the outside world in order to maintain, not least, trade and export relations, but also, of course, for other travellers. The moment I say that the flight is important, I am also very clear that the flight needs to be changed. Like all other modes of transport, aviation must be able to make the transition that we are now making, with biofuels or, in the long term, electrification. Such research projects can be found here in Sweden. This will guide the aviation policy pursued by the government. It is then important to work for new routes from Arlanda that are internationally important. We are, of course, working, and have been doing, for a long time, on the aviation strategy that the government has had with a specific flight plan for Arlanda. We must ensure, nationally, that we can have good international air connections and be able to collect flights at Arlanda.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer so far. I think that in fact all parties in the Swedish Parliament agree that we need to change. As a West Swedish, I don't really see a huge problem with Copenhagen becoming a stronger node, for many of us have natural reasons to go there. But it is extremely important for Sweden that we have a well-functioning hub in the middle of the country, and then what Arlanda is all about. My question was, in fact, what the government intends to do, but I did not get an answer to that question, Madam President.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-226	Madam President, I would like I wish we had a deal, but we're not. The aviation tax and other instruments that we have in order for aviation and other parts of the transport sector to change have been severely criticised, not least by Christian Democrats, Moderates and Swedish Democrats. With regard to climate change and the conversion of aviation, we do not always agree in the debate. We work to strengthen Arlanda, of course. This has been the aim of the work with the Arlanda Council and a road map for Arlanda all along.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-229	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. We in the Committee on Transport know that there is social dumping in the labour market in both the haulage and construction sectors. It's something we've met. Employers exploit workers and undermine the Swedish model. But the fact that there would be municipalities involved in social dumping was something new to me. During April and May Solna Municipality moved 14 citizens from Solna to Kramfors. Common to all 14 was that they lacked support and got a number tag to the social services office in Kramfors.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-232	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Jasenko for an important question. I agree, and it is sad that we need to have this discussion here in the Swedish Parliament. It is clear that each municipality has responsibility for its citizens, its inhabitants, whether you are a child or an elderly person, whether you have a disability, whether you go to school or if you are a professional. It doesn't matter. This is based on each municipality taking responsibility for its citizens. That is why we have a cost equalisation system; the aim is to achieve a more level playing field. This is also why we provide welfare billions; the opportunity should be to offer good welfare in all municipalities in the country. I think this is a boring discussion to have. Basically, it is about solidarity between municipalities. 290 municipalities must share the responsibility for 10 million inhabitants. It works if everyone does their part.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-235	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer. While this was done, the inhabitants moved to Kramfors. There I was on May 1 with parents fighting the closure of a school. While fighting, other municipalities are moving costs to Kramfors, which makes it impossible for parents and municipal politicians to maintain the welfare of the municipality. This is most unfair. I hope the Minister can do something about it.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-237	Madam President, I would like It is a fact that each municipality has responsibility for its residents. How, then, do you ensure that someone becomes and remains a municipality resident? It is clear that it is a question of solidarity between municipalities. But basically it is also a question of how Sweden should stay together in the long run. I have no new answers to give to Mr Jasenko, but it is clear that this is a very urgent issue that we may, unfortunately, have reason to discuss more.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-239	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. In the last week, one can easily say that there has been a kind of false alarmism in the energy debate in Sweden. Above all, there have been two parties that have really taken on board: the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. They argue that there is a lack of energy and a partial shortage of electricity capacity or a shortage of electricity transmission. This seems funny when you look at the facts. Every year Sweden exports 15 to 20 terawatt hours of electricity to the outside world. 51 out of 52 weeks, it is net exports of electricity from Sweden. There is a need for sense and balance in the discussion and debate. My questions to the Government are: How does the Government view the debate that has taken place? What opportunities are there now for further expansion? We would like to hear this in black and white, so that we do not have to have this false debate that has taken place. What does the Swedish power grid do, and what stuff is in the plane?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-243	Madam President, I would like I welcome the discussion on Swedish energy supply. I think it's good and important to carry. The basis is that we five parties have an energy agreement that secures a long-term energy supply for Sweden. It gives us the opportunity to renew the nuclear reactors we have and to build new nuclear power. There we also provide an opportunity to invest in renewable energy. This energy agreement has led to SEK 80 billion in new energy investments. This energy agreement has led to Sweden having the largest electricity surplus ever and that we are only expected to export 27 terawatt hours of electricity this year. This is more than would be required for the entire Swedish vehicle fleet. Forward, the Swedish Energy Agency says that we will have a continued growing energy surplus, although the owners decide to phase out Ringhals 1 and 2.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-245	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I am pleased to hear the Government say that this debate is important, because it is. But it is also important that it is calm and balanced and that we get facts, such as those that the Government has just given us. I myself am from southern Sweden, from Blekinge. We have an important wind power project called Taggen. There are many other projects in southern Sweden that are important to expand when it comes to renewable energy. How does the Government view the expansion of renewable energy in southern Sweden? We have a little too little capacity and a little too little production there at the moment.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-247	Madam President, I would like I believe that there are good conditions for building renewable energy in southern Sweden on market grounds. The wind power that is being built today is being built without subsidies. That is why I believe it is urgent to abolish the previous subsidy system as soon as possible in the form of certificates of electricity, so that the market can manage itself. But we also want to live up to the agreement we have in the Energy Agreement to abolish the offshore wind connection charge. It will be able to give Skåne and Blekinge more.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-249	Madam President, I would like Rape, assault, escape, accidents, wars and natural disasters– those with post-traumatic stress syndrome have experienced serious events. PTSD is a heavy mental illness that relives memories of the trauma and has chronic stress, severe anxiety and other severe problems that lead to isolation, sick leave and incomplete schooling. PTSD is linked to deadly diseases, addiction and suicide. 600 000 people have PTSD. Most people don't get treatment. It is people who have been through hell but that society has abandoned. At least two of them follow this debate: my friend Jimmy, who was severely abused by people who entered his home, and my friend Anna, who saw death while fleeing to Sweden and who was subjected to sexual abuse and violence throughout her childhood.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-254	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Kayhan for helping to highlight an issue that may not always be discussed as much as it should be. I would like to emphasise that it is clear that healthcare has an important responsibility to meet the people suffering from PTSD. But it is also a challenge for our society to see these people. This is a matter for the world of work. If you are young, it is also a matter for the school to see and understand. How should you meet a person who has that diagnosis and symptoms and who needs an incredible amount of support, not only to get well and manage a future but also to manage to live here and now? Of course, care has an important responsibility. It is, of course, the professions of care that are the best at assessing how best to provide care.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-255	Madam President and Mr Hallengren! The government has invested money for several years to reduce mental illness, but most with PTSD are still not receiving care. I believe that targeted measures are needed for PTSD. Hundreds of thousands of people are waiting for a light and a hook to hang their hope on. I promise to continue to pursue this issue and will, among other things, organise a parliamentary seminar to discuss measures.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-258	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that there have been agreements on psychiatry. It is about strengthening psychiatry and making it more equal across the country, about increasing knowledge support towards the profession, but also about ensuring that the research that exists is always at the end of the business. When it comes to mental illness, it is a very broad spectrum. It hardly feels relevant to talk about a form of care for easier mental illness when Sultan Kayhan talks about PTSD. But we work with mental illness very broadly – and I mean broad.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-261	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Tomas Eneroth. Part of the Transport Committee has been in California to see and learn what we can do to achieve the 2030 targets. An important part of the goals is the conversion to fossil-free. Sweden is not lagging behind in any way, but reducing by 70% by 2030 is a high target. Many even doubt whether it is even possible to achieve it. However, I am very optimistic and believe that this is actually possible, but we need to speed up the transition. My question then is: does the Government agree that we need to speed up, and what can the government do to make it happen?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-263	Madam President and Mr Denis. I couldn't agree more. The Climate Policy Council was clear that if we are to reach the 70% target, we must speed up. We do a lot in Sweden. We are the world leader in the transition. It's biofuels. It's electrification. It's electric roads. It is an investment in rail and maritime transport to reduce emissions. But we have to do more-- there's no doubt about it. It's about our own commitment here at home. I believe, for example, that Sweden has the most electric cars in the EU. If we expand the charging infrastructure and ensure that we expand electrical roads, the probability of the switchover will increase. But we also have to work internationally. COP 25, the major climate summit, is being held this year in Chile. The fact is that transport ministers are invited this time. Transport ministers have become the new climate ministers, because it is in the transport sector that we need to change. Here we from the Swedish government will be leading, because we need the transformation both in Sweden and internationally.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your good answer. Part of the solution that we saw during this journey was autonomous vehicles. I am sure the Minister has heard a lot about these vehicles. Over there in California, you were a little more progressive when it comes to that part. We are a little behind in Sweden. How does the Government view the possibility of pilot projects in the area of autonomous vehicles? I am thinking, above all, of public transport and of freight transport.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-268	Madam President and Mr Denis. It is true that the USA has also come a long way, but we are very far ahead in Europe and not least in Sweden. In fact, Einride is now driving a truck in Jönköping, 100 meters on a public road. This is still happening in the context of demo installations. But we are also working on what will be the future permanent regulatory framework. Then it has been important for me to ensure that things are similar in the European Union, so that the automotive industry has the opportunity to develop these models throughout the European market.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-269	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Lena Hallengren. I, too, am going to ask a question about all the regions which have made a joint procurement of medical articles and which are now without equipment. The procurement has proved to be poor, and the prize has played too much of a role. I think we can also see that the liberalisation of the pharmacy monopoly may have played a role here. This also applies, of course, to privatisations. In my home county Uppsala several operations have been cancelled, and it has been announced that even more will be cancelled. I wonder what the Minister of Social Affairs is planning for this not to happen again. Will the law on public procurement, for example, be reviewed so that in future we cannot see that a low price can take precedence over quality? Can we in any way prevent this kind of decision?
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-272	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ilona Szatmari Waldau, for the question! I am a little cautious about my analysis when we are in the middle of this, but I assume that there will be a clear analysis of how this situation could arise. It has turned out that the five regions involved in the procurement process have handled this in a slightly different way. They have simply had different preparedness to face the situation. For example, planned operations have not been cancelled in all regions. However, I stress, as in my previous reply to the question, that it is very serious to get into this situation. The reason is not something from the point of view of the future and or something in crisis like that, but it is actually a procurement that has been made. What factors have been recorded and what considerations have been taken, I do not fully know. Nor is it on my table to deal with the whole law on public procurement. But it is clear to me that the question is being asked, and not just in this House. I assume that it will also be set by the regions concerned and by other regions.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-275	Madam President, I would like What I can say from a Uppsala perspective – Uppsala has definitely had the worst preparedness for this, because there has been no interlayer – is that responsible politicians blame each other. You blame yourself. It blames officials, and officials blame the company for not delivering what it has promised. Everyone blames everyone. I think that is a very serious situation. I very much hope that the Government, which is nevertheless the most responsible politician in Sweden when it comes to health care, will ensure that this does not happen again.
i-b8e6be858a93c5e1-277	Madam President, I would like Without reducing in any way my own role, I would like to stress that in this case the regions have a responsibility. They have a responsibility to manage health care on a daily basis but also to manage the procurements they choose to make. It is, of course, important to get the support that can be obtained from both the procurement authority and elsewhere. I intend to follow the matter very closely, I would say, to find out more about how this could actually happen.
