i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-25	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me what further initiatives I intend to take to ensure that Ahmadreza Djalali is immediately treated outside the prison, that his death sentence is lifted and that he is released. The human rights situation in Iran remains very serious, not least as regards the execution of a large number of capital punishments. Sweden's position on the death penalty is well known. It is an inhuman, cruel and irreversible punishment that is contrary to human rights. We condemn the death penalty in all its forms. I would like to stress the seriousness with which I look at the death sentence against Ahmadreza Djalali. Sweden requires that the penalty is not enforced. Together with the rest of the EU, we have protested against the death penalty on repeated occasions. Through our embassy in Teheran, we participate in joint EU démarches to the Iranian Foreign Ministry and the judiciary. The latest EU démarche in the case, when the worrying information that has reached us on Ahmadreza Djalalis's state of health was also raised, was carried out in March. We continuously raise his case with high-level representatives of Iran, both in Stockholm and in Tehran. I myself have recently spoken with my Iranian counterpart, Foreign Minister Zarif. In these contacts, too, we call for the sanction to be changed. We also stress Djalalis's worrying state of health and stress the importance of receiving the care he needs. We continuously request permission for the Swedish Embassy in Tehran to visit our citizen. However, I have to say that so far we have not met. Iran's clear-cut view is that Djalali is considered to be only Iranian citizens, and thus the embassy has so far not been considered entitled to visit Ahmadreza Djalali. We are in close contact with Djalalis's relatives, and our efforts for Djalali continue unabated.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-30	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is to be welcomed that the Foreign Minister has lifted the case of Ahmadrezas with the Irish Foreign Minister. The situation of Ahmadreza Djalali is very serious. I turned in the interpellation on the third anniversary of his imprisonment. The real reason for Iran's harsh treatment seems to be that Ahmadreza has turned down being a spy for Iran. He is now on death row in the worst of the worst prisons, Evin Prison in Iran. It is a real limbo between life and death, far from wife and children here in Sweden. Iran is the country in the world that next after China executes the most people annually. His state of health is now very serious both physically and mentally and a consequence of Iran's inhumane treatment, where we do not know to what extent torture occurs. All we know is that it's happening. In principle, it is impossible for Swedish authorities to gain access to Iranian prisons. However, for a period of time Ahmadreza was in hospital, which is usually visited. I therefore wonder why the Ministry for Foreign Affairs did not visit the hospital to get in direct contact with Ahmadreza and better knowledge of his state of health. Another question arises when the Minister for Foreign Affairs answers, we call for the sanction to be changed. Is not the Swedish objective for Djalali to be released and handed over to the Swedish authorities? Or do you accept that he's going to get a prison sentence? Amnesty has called on the Iranian authorities to give Djalali immediate care outside the prison, to lift the death sentence and to release him. Is this demand supported by the Minister for Foreign Affairs? If the inhumane punishment is converted into a long prison sentence, the basic condition is not changed: the situation will continue to be great for Ahmadreza and his family. There is another question that I often get when I have contact with the relatives of the Swedes who in different ways are in trouble around the world. It gives a fairly consistent picture of disappointment over the dialogue with and the support the Ministry for Foreign Affairs gives them during the process. There are often uncertainties as to what is being done in the specific cases. Perhaps a little linked to this – although it is not Mrs Wallström's responsibility as Foreign Minister – is the question of what support society provides. People often feel that society does not support them when they end up in difficult situations. I wonder how the minister sees it. One last thing I would like to highlight is the situation of lawyers in Iran. We know that Ahmadrezas's lawyer has been exposed and imprisoned on various occasions. We are also aware of the famous case of Nasrin Sotoudeh – Margot Wallström may be able to pronounce the name better than I – who is sentenced to 148 lashes and 33 years in prison. How does the Foreign Minister view the ominous situation of these lawyers in Iran?
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-41	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the comments! I would like to say something about the wider picture of Iran and human rights and something also to comment on how we are working on the case. Sweden continues to require Iran to respect human rights. In addition to the bilateral contacts we have, we are working systematically and continuously on these issues through both the EU and the UN. Of course, we will always be stronger if we stick together in the European circle in our dealings with Iranian representatives. We address human rights in all our political contacts with Iran. The Swedish Government will continue to be very clear and to have a frank dialogue with Iranian representatives on the issue of the human rights situation in the country, including the application of the death penalty. This widespread application of the death penalty in Iran, including for minors, is a very worrying topic of discussion. The EU is a driving force in the process of abolishing the death penalty. Of course, we take an active part in this work and have a similar argument. The number of executions in Iran fell by about 50 percent in 2018 after a revised legislation limited the use of the death penalty in drug-related cases to only the most serious forms of drug crime. The death penalty previously imposed but not carried out is now being reviewed on a case-by-case basis. This emerges when we compile our MR report on Iran. The EU has sanctions against Iran on human rights since 2011. Those measures were last extended in April. This concerns the freezing of funds and economic resources and travel restrictions. Sweden is also a member of the core group, which in Geneva annually presents a resolution to the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran. That mandate was last extended on 22 March. There are also a number of other things in our MR report on Iran that show how worrying this is. I would like to say one more thing: we continue, of course, to argue that this death penalty should not be applied but that it should be converted into a prison sentence. You have to take one step at a time. Of course, we also require diplomatic access and to be able to check, for example, his state of health. But then I really want to defend our consular unit and its activities. Often, it bears the burden of the frustration that many relatives of course feel. Our consular staff are working around the clock, every day of the year, on these issues. They care incredibly much about the relatives and manage these contacts in an admirable way. In every situation, I will defend them and say that I know that they put their hearts down in the work of trying to find the best outcome in all the cases that we work with. Anything else, I'd like to reject. If there was an opportunity to meet with Djalali, we would have used it. I don't think that possibility existed, unfortunately. And lawyers should certainly not be attacked because they are doing their job – in this case defending their clients.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-49	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. During the Social Democratic Government since 2014, Sweden has approached Iran to a very large extent. Several government delegations have travelled to Iran, of which one led by the Prime Minister himself, despite the fact that the human rights situation in Iran, as described by the Foreign Minister, has not improved very much. Although we have seen a positive development around the death penalty in the past year, it is still a little early to shout hello. These advances have often been made to the Iranian regime with reference to the interests of Swedish companies. There have also been relatively few civil society organisations participating in delegations. They have often come to the end when demands have been made for this from outside. The international climate of approaching Iran has changed considerably recently since Trump became President. First, in the election campaign, he threatened to break the nuclear agreement, and then he broke it. The agreement was for Iran not to develop nuclear weapons. He has also imposed a series of sanctions on Iran. The rising tone between the United States and Iran is in danger of escalating. The tone has indeed risen recently. The Secretary of State himself had the opportunity to meet the US Secretary of State Pompeo relatively recently and also the Security Minister Bolton. In Parliament we had a visit from the Foreign Minister of Iraq, and I tip that Mrs Wallström also met him. When we had a discussion with him, I thought he expressed it very wisely: the Middle East does not need any more wars. We must put an end to the kind of war that we see in the Middle East. I wonder what the Swedish Government's relationship with Iran looks like today. Do you expect to continue with the advances that were tried a few years ago? Do we want to deepen relations and cooperation despite the fact that human rights developments are not moving in a direct positive direction in Iran? Then there is the question of war: What can Sweden do, and what does Sweden do to prevent war from breaking out? If so, how does the Foreign Minister intend to act? What measures can be taken against Iran but also against the United States? Somewhere you have to match up a little with the right-wing President Trump, who has a very authoritarian way of acting towards his world, who does not seek multilateralism and who does not seek dialogue. We as a country and as part of the European Union must, of course, react when we see that it can lead to increased flows of refugees, increased human suffering and simply increased wars in the world. It's something that's very serious. I would like the Foreign Minister to respond a little to these considerations.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-57	Madam President, I would like The questions that Håkan Svenneling is now asking are the most relevant, difficult and challenging questions. Is it isolation policy or is it contacts, meetings and dialogue that apply? After all, we have tried isolation policy for decades, including with Iran, and it has not shown any progress on the human rights situation. We believe that it is dialogue and meetings that need to be put in focus, so that we can talk directly to Iran about things where we have serious criticism. This applies above all to MRs. Starkast will be when we can stay together in the European Union and have a policy there that both has sanctions on human rights and can limit their ability to acquire nuclear weapons through the nuclear agreement with Iran. We are defending it, because the truth is that there is a control regime there that allows us to see that they are living up to their commitments. Then they also expect us to live up to our commitments. But in a different direction, in a direct dialogue with Iran, we must address the criticism of human rights and the lack of progress there. Håkan Svenneling himself mentioned Nasrin Sotoudeh, which is another example of how the Iranian regime does not respect the principles of the rule of law. That is why we at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in Stockholm have also raised this case in talks with senior Iranian representatives, including the Iranian ambassador. As long as we have this contact, it allows us to talk directly to Iran about this and express criticism directly. Otherwise, what I think would happen if we were to advocate a policy of isolation is that the most conservative and fundamentalist forces get air under their wings. We've seen that before. As soon as something like this happens, as now with the US play, it is those who get water on their mills and who also become the ones who take advantage of it the most. We are therefore striving for as broad a dialogue as possible. We believe that the nuclear agreement is averting the threat of Iranian nuclear development. It is very important both for our country and for the European Union that Iran does not make that agreement. Then I think we have opened up to other countries as well. It will also be less credible to conclude an agreement with a country such as North Korea in order to limit the development of nuclear weapons if it is shown that an agreement which it took ten years to negotiate and which they actually live up to, as the IAEA has shown, can be terminated this easily. We believe that sometimes it has to go on several tracks at the same time and in parallel. You should be able to do both. It is not always easy, and it is not always we can see huge progress. This takes time and we must continue with the policy of dialogue. Increased trade and deeper exchanges with other countries allow for dialogue. Many Swedish companies also work with social responsibility and respect for human rights and can contribute to positive social development in the country. Maybe we'll have to get back to America. I do not have time in this speech to sort out the policy towards the United States as well.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-64	Madam President, I would like Then we hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have the opportunity to do so in his final speech. I thought I'd try to sum up some parts of what we've been talking about. It is clear that the Minister is looking forward to a step-by-step approach to how to improve the situation for Djalali. This is positive, and I think that you should be clear about actively working with that method and working in a good way with this. I hear that the Minister clearly defends the consular support provided by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and I have great confidence in the consular support of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, I will say this honestly and clearly. But I also hear that many relatives perceive that sometimes they do not get clear information. This spring a great deal of attention has been paid to one case, which I think we will have to come back to, namely what concerns Gui Minhai. It shows that there is a bigger picture and not just about the individual cases that I have heard about. There are other cases, too. Has the government changed its attitude towards Iran? I think it is very good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is conducting a dialogue with the Iranian Foreign Affairs Department and raising human rights issues and other things. I am not quite as convinced as the Minister for Foreign Affairs that trade gives birth to dialogue and that it is good to send his Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Trade, as Ann Linde now is, to give the impression that we want to increase economic exchanges as much as we have wanted from the Swedish side because we have not seen any progress in the area of human rights. It has really only been seen in the nuclear field and in that agreement. I have some doubts as to whether to proceed as quickly as the government has done. Now that strategy seems difficult, so I hope that we will continue to have a dialogue with Iran and not isolate it, but do so from a human rights perspective. It will be interesting to hear what the Foreign Minister is doing to counter another war in the Middle East. I think it would be very dangerous if Donald Trump could once again dictate the conditions in the world and create a new, dangerous war for the whole world. I hope not.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-69	Madam President, I would like No, indeed, it must not happen that we start, deliberately or unintentionally, a war in the Middle East. Of course, I have also explained this to my contacts and on my visits to Washington. Unfortunately, this can happen by mistake today. It can be something about technical equipment, a misjudgement or simply that rhetoric becomes a war rhetoric that can cause someone with less judgment to take a first step or throw the first stone, and so triggers a chain reaction. This is very serious and, of course, we are talking about this in the European Union. Once again, we are the strongest when Europe sticks together and says that this is not the way forward. Multilateralism and defending free trade and what has made us successful are the systems that also best protect democracy and democratic development worldwide. When we stick together, we can also have a dialogue on human rights and the principles of the rule of law. Even though we are impatient and should be, this is what can gradually change a society. On this case, I would like to say that no one should have doubts that we will do everything for Ahmadreza Djalali to look after his health and for his death penalty to be transformed. We will continue to work on this issue in all our contacts, directly with Iran or via the EU and the UN.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-72	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me three questions about the consequences of the Government's proposal on increased taxes on fossil fuels for cogeneration. The first question is about how I view the risk that global emissions will increase as a result of the unilateral focus on emissions in Sweden. The second question is about how I see the Government's proposal helping to reduce power production, as Sweden is moving towards a situation of power shortage. Finally, Mattias Bäckström Johansson wonders whether I myself and the government intend to take measures to ensure a strengthening of the competitiveness of cogeneration. The spring amending budget includes proposals to abolish energy tax reductions and increase the CO2 tax on fossil fuels consumed for heat production in cogeneration plants. Power heat can play an important role in energy supply, but it must bear its own environmental costs. The proposal aims to reduce CO2 emissions from fossil fuels in cogeneration installations. The proposal will contribute to the transition to biofuels already underway in Swedish combined heat and power plants from fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas. The majority of the electricity we import comes from Norway today. It is a country with a broadly renewable electricity mix. As a result, my answer to the first question is that there is very little risk of increased total emissions as a result. At the same time, however, total emissions depend on the impact of the measure on emissions within the EU ETS, i.e. the European Emissions Trading Mechanism. All plants in Sweden need to be able to contribute to reducing net emissions of greenhouse gases from fossil fuels. The CHP installations currently affected will still have lower taxes than CHP installations outside the EU ETS. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that the use of fossil fuels is effectively reduced. It is often heard that the owners of the local CHP plants are primarily looking at the profitability of the business. The City of Stockholm is in a favourable situation, as the municipality is half-owner of the local company Stockholm Exergi. They thus have a good opportunity to also take in other values such as enabling local development and electrification. The Government intends to monitor the capacity and effect situation in the electricity system. Finally, and in response to Mr Bäckström Johansson's last question, I would like to point out that the competitiveness of remote and combined heat and power is influenced by many factors where we need to look and follow up on the whole. The Energy Agreement concludes that a competitive district heating sector is needed to cope with electricity and heat supply in peak load situations. I am ready to discuss with the other four parties that have concluded the agreement how we implement what we have already agreed.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-78	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to the interpellation that I have made! The background is the increase in taxes on fuels that the government has put forward for cogeneration and that we can now see events that may not be in the course that the government has predicted. Initially, I think it is important to point out that there is no party in this House that believes that fossil fuels should not be phased out over time. In the short term, however, the problem is that we have a high degree of dependence on electricity both in households and in companies. In order for cities to grow and be suitable locations for the establishment of business activities, good access to electricity is required. Now it has been announced that the proposal is likely to lead to a forced closure of a number of works that are currently fired with fossil fuels such as gas or coal but which also have a phasing-out process in progress. The forced closure risks a lack of impact and, in the short term, a lack of transmission capacity. The proposal also looks to generate significantly less tax revenue than planned. As far as emissions are concerned, the industry itself has flagged because this can lead to an increase in emissions. In its reply, the Government acknowledges that there is a risk of increased total emissions. The reason why there is a risk of increased emissions, which may seem strange because fossil fuels are being phased out, is that we have to cover the loss of production with imports during the colder part of the year when we import electricity. For a long number of years it has preferably been Norway that has been our most important trading partner in this regard. In the past winter, we could see that countries with predominantly fossil-based power production, such as Denmark, Germany and Poland, are the ones we are trading more with in January and February and from which we are net imports. There is added value in fuel burning and both electricity generation and heat production. This added value is now being created as an incentive not to use and instead to have pure heat production. In addition, in some of these cases, heat pumps will also be used, which will increase the use of electricity and not only the loss of production will be covered, but also the use will be increased in order to stay warm in the households of Stockholm City and other major cities. Here the government's unilateral focus on Sweden can lead to undesirable development in a global perspective. This can lead to increased emissions, and no one is served by it. Instead, we should have a more comprehensive picture of what is most effective to implement. It will be a little strange if the government does not see problems with the proposal it has put forward. Lack of production and transmission capacity is not something that can be covered in a few years. There are very long lead times when it comes to new power generation or to building new power lines. D may be somewhere between 7 and 15 years in lead times waiting for the person to live under these conditions. Is the effect on district heating and combined heat and power really desirable when it is directed towards not using the energy content or fuel that is fueled in an optimal way? It may play a minor role in the exact fuel used. Rather, it should be an entry point to strengthen the conditions for the most efficient use possible.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-86	Madam President, I would like Let me state, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, that the government does not have a unilateral focus on Sweden. We have an international focus. We have signed the Paris Agreement, and we are pushing the EU for the whole of Europe to move towards net zero emissions. We see that the countries mentioned by Mattias Bäckström Johansson have taken strong initiatives to reduce their CO2 emissions. For example, Germany has taken the initiative to completely abolish its use of coal and coal burning. Let us look at the import and export situation of the past winter. Sweden exported electricity 51 out of 52 weeks in the last year. The week we net imported was the largest exporter Norway with a basically completely renewable energy mix. What we imported was mainly Norwegian hydropower, which is of course positive for the climate. Although there are long lead times on new transmission capacity, I would also like to remind you that we have ten times increased investment in transmission capacity. We have gone from the order of 400 million a year in investments to the order of 4 000 million a year. I would also like to remind you that in several of the cases raised by Mattias Bäckström Johansson, the owners of the facilities have the opportunity to make other decisions. Stockholm's politicians may choose whether they believe that there is a risk of regional capacity shortages if they want to produce electricity in their work or if they want to maximise their own profit and then produce heat. I have a question for Mattias Bäckström Johansson which I hope he has the opportunity to answer. He has said in the interpellation, and in the debate, that he agrees with the government that coal burning should cease in these works. He also agrees, as far as I understand it, that there should be a system in which these activities bear their own climate costs. In the opinion of the Swedish Democrats, when will subsidies of coal burning by tax reduction cease? What is the timetable for Sweden's democrats to abolish our subsidies on coal burning?
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-92	Madam President, I would like As far as electricity trade is concerned, we are buying electricity from Norway for a large part of the year, and this is perhaps the most important trading partner. But during the coldest part of the year Sweden has a stronger trade with those countries that have a predominantly fossil-based power generation. It is also the case that Norway is building new electricity cables against Germany and the UK, which means that the conditions may be reduced to actually cover our need for electricity in winter from Norway. Here it is important to be more forward-looking than we have been in recent times. What we actively choose to do is to put ourselves in a worse position than we had before, with the risk that it will lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions. As regards what can be done to phase out the small share of fossil fuels available, for a number of these works there has been a plan to convert to the use of biofuels or to convert their plants. What is happening now by throwing in a shock increase in the tax is that it is instead closing, increasing Sweden's vulnerability and risks increasing emissions. I find it hard to see what the profit in it would be. There is already a system of emissions trading that has a controlling effect on the price of carbon dioxide and the fossil emissions in which these installations are included. What is now being done is to introduce dual instruments by both paying for emissions and paying a tax in Sweden that actually intends to cover more of the fiscal needs that exist to reduce the tax for those who have the highest income in the country. In the short term, there will be effects that have not been anticipated. The negative impact of the Government's proposal is estimated by the energy consulting company Pöyry to be socio-economic losses of SEK 150 billion. In its reply, the Government stated that if this is considered to be negative consequences, the City of Stockholm would have to disregard the company's business goals and run plants with losses in order to instead upgrade other values. Now the interpellation is about the preconditions of cogeneration, but it is interesting that the Government says that it should ignore what is business-related and proper to take into account socio-economic aspects instead. When the Swedish Democrats have raised similar arguments on, for example, Vattenfall, which is fully owned by the state, not half but fully, and on the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2, at least the party colleagues of the Government in this House have clearly indicated that the business economic objectives are the most important and that there is nothing else to consider in terms of consequences. Perhaps there is reason here to come back to how you view this. Even if data on socio-economic costs were to be regarded as seriously inflated, and even if a few per cent were to be correct, it is still a question of costs which far exceed the tax revenues generated by the proposal. Why is it so important that emission reduction should take place in Sweden to such a high price tag when it has been possible to do so more effectively in other parts than to make sure to remove the last 2 percent in the power system in Sweden?
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-99	Madam President, I would like I think Mattias Bäckström Johansson will have to decide. Is this a small, small proportion he is trying to claim on this issue, or is it the huge change in the situation of effect that he is expressing in his interpellation? It can't be both at once. Mattias Bäckström Johansson gets to choose a perspective. It was quite a pun from Mattias Bäckström Johansson, but I still haven't got an answer to my question. Should I interpret Mattias Bäckström Johansson so that the Swedish Democrats are prepared to continue to subsidise coal burning in Sweden? I did not get a time when you want to phase out or reduce subsidies through tax reductions. Is it the case that the Swedish Democrats in 2019 do not have a deadline for how long they are prepared to subsidise coal burning? This shows how seriously the Swedish democrats take the climate situation. Of course, all companies in Sweden must strike a balance between what climate responsibility to take and what business profits to make. Stockholm Exergi is owned by Stockholm taxpayers for a reason. I don't think that reason is to make a maximum profit. The reason is to provide competitive heating and energy costs for the Stockholms. I assume that the owners of Stockholm Exergi, i.e. the Stockholms, want them to deliver just that. It should be good security of supply as well as competitive electricity and heat prices. In the balance between going with very high profit or just high profit, I think that the Stockholmers will choose to go with high profit and instead give competitive heating and energy prices to the Stockholmers. I believe that when the Swedish Democrats have thought it through in their Chamber, the Swedish Democrats in Stockholm municipality will come to the same conclusion. But it remains to be seen. You are represented in the Stockholm Council. I am happy to receive an answer to my first question, namely when and if the Swedish Democrats are prepared to abolish subsidies for coal burning in Sweden.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-103	Madam President, I would like Sweden does not have a planned economy, so that we decide from here, for example, when plants are to be closed down. There is an emissions trading system and it shows that the price of CO2 emissions has quadrupled in recent times. There is a controlling effect on reducing CO2 emissions. This tax increase is part of the January agreement and will go towards tax reductions on labour. Priority will be given to those with the highest incomes by removing the military tax. For me and the Swedish Democrats, it is most remarkable that we are now prepared, with an extremely dubious effect, to force into our big cities a situation where, for example, new residential areas cannot be created, public transport that is electrified cannot be further expanded and business start-ups may not be possible. As some of these facilities appear to be closing down rather quickly, the planned tax revenue is significantly reduced. The industry itself makes the assessment that in Gothenburg and Stockholm tax revenues can be lower than they were before. The annual revenues from the plants generate socio-economic losses that are a thousandfold greater. At the very least, I find it incomprehensible that we should continue to want to move forward with this increase in shock, which puts off the legs of cogeneration. The proposal is also intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We'll see what happens. The Government now admits that there is a risk that emissions may increase, as can be seen from the interpellation response. The work for a fossil-free energy system is absolutely self-evident, but it also requires taking responsibility. It must not go out on a secure energy supply that gives the whole of Sweden the opportunity to live and grow. It will be difficult not to regard government policy as anything but socially damaging.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-108	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson is successful in making long speeches in the Chamber, but unfortunately he is not as successful in answering a simple question: When, do the Swedish Democrats think that the subsidies of coal burning in Sweden should stop? I can only conclude that the Swedish Democrats continue to subsidise coal burning in our largest cities at the expense of taxpayers. It will hardly benefit either climate change or the citizens of Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-110	Madam President, I would like John Widegren has asked me how I will work to ensure that in the future we will be able to deliver as much wood raw material to the forest industry as possible, and that Swedish forests will continue to be competitive as an important part of our bnp and our exports. Let me begin by saying that forestry policy has long been based on two equal objectives: the environmental and production objectives. The focus on forestry policy is on equal objectives and forestry sector responsibility and the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. Swedish forests are of great importance for industrial growth and competitiveness, for jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country, for a vibrant countryside and for recreation, as well as for a growing circular and bio-based economy. Equally, protection and environmental considerations will increase, increased production of forest raw materials is important in the transition to a bio-based society and to phase out fossil energy. The activities of forestry and the forest industry have been very high in recent years. The felling exceeds 90 million cubic metres, of which almost everything is processed in Swedish industry. In 2018, forest industry exports amounted to SEK 145 billion. The demand for forest biomass is expected to increase further in line with the continued shift away from fossil raw materials in Sweden and in many other countries. In a growing bioeconomy, we need to ensure sustainable yield of forest raw materials that also ensure biodiversity and social values. The challenge of meeting the future demand for forest biomass while achieving environmental objectives is a central issue in the national forest programme that was presented in 2018. One of five objectives is to achieve sustainable forest growth with good and guaranteed access to national biomass from Swedish forests, within the framework of achieving national environmental objectives. The government believes that there is scope for measures such as better regeneration, plant breeding, grubbing-up, thinning and reduced damage, which can increase production with little or no negative environmental impact. Measures to increase forest production and at the same time promote biodiversity should be promoted in particular. The average time between regeneration and felling is now over 100 years and the depreciation period for investments in new industrial capacity extends over several decades. It is therefore important to establish long-term rules that provide investment security around the forest and its entire value chain, enabling a fossil-free future, sustainable growth and employment throughout the country. The combined effect of excluding forest land from timber production in relation to good and secured biomass supply needs to be continuously analysed. The Board of Forests and several other relevant authorities have the task of producing coherent statistics on forest land, including the provision of statistics on formally protected areas, voluntary provisions, consideration areas and the legal protection of unproductive forest land. According to the January Agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, private ownership of forests is to be protected and strengthened. The national forest programme will be developed to further promote a growing forest industry and sustainable forestry. The programme will be based on the two production and environmental objectives of the Forest Protection Act. Particular focus shall be placed on good conditions for entrepreneurship in the forestry sector. In addition, strengthened ownership rights, new flexible forms of protection and compensation for soil protection and how international biodiversity commitments can be reconciled with a growing circular bioeconomy will be investigated. It will take the government to ensure.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-117	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This issue is extremely important. I hear from the nutrition how it boils and breaks a bit. You're worried about the future of timber supply. Sweden is protecting more and more forests. It is believed that total protection is now up to about 31 percent of Swedish forest land. This includes both productive and less productive land. If we continue to protect the forest, we are approaching the limit of what we can harvest in relation to growth, so that we do not exceed growth through felling. The fact that Sweden has had sensible, sustainable and reasonable felling has characterized our country for a very long time, at least in the last hundred years. It has been freedom under responsibility. Over the last hundred years, forest holdings, i.e. the number of cubic metres of forest, in Sweden have doubled. While the forest has been harvested two to three times, we have managed to increase the amount. So these are very important issues. If industry starts to feel uncertainty about access to forest raw materials, there is a high risk that the pace of investment, new investment and development may slow down. Every year several billions are invested in the Swedish forest industry. It is invested in very climate-smart innovations, and the ambition in Swedish forest production and industry is very high. For the future, Sweden is very dependent on such ambitions. If the forest is not the most important, it is certainly one of the most important parts of the transition to an environmentally friendly and climate-smart society. The forest industry then represents many smart innovations. There is therefore a concern when more and more forest is to be protected. One wonders if we will be able to supply raw materials to the industry. Today we are in the order of about 100 million cubic metres. In the industry itself it is said that if you can continue with Swedish forest production at the same rate as today, we could increase the yield by 1 million cubic metres per year. But then we must not interfere with what has to do with ownership and long-termism by taking more land out of production. I and the Moderates believe that Swedish forest production today is sustainable. Since there have been signals from some government parties that Swedish forest production is not sustainable, I would like to ask the Minister: Does the government think that Swedish forest production is sustainable? Swedish forest owners depend on long-term rules of play. The felling interval is in the order of 50 to 100 years, a little depending on what you produce, so it requires absolute long-term rules of play. It is therefore gratifying that the government and its new cooperation parties intend to set up this ownership inquiry, which should look at restrictions on ownership. This has been a moderate issue for a very long time. There are extremely high market values in Swedish forests. This is in many ways the basis for agricultural and forestry entrepreneurs to be able to invest further. I therefore wonder what the Government has to say about the importance of the long-term rules of the game for forest owners.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-124	Madam President, I would like I thank John Widegren very much for the question. I share a great deal of what the interpellier has to say in his speech. I particularly share the picture of the importance of long-term and stable conditions in order to ensure that we get the necessary investments that we need for this industry. They are needed to develop new products as high up in the processing chain as possible and to ensure the Swedish position as one of the countries in the world that are the best at using the forest raw material, which contributes to increased bnp and export for our country. It's important. At the same time, it is important that we have a sustainable use of forest. When I talk with forest owners, with the industry and really with all stakeholders in this area, I feel that there is a consensus about it. We have a common interest in ensuring that we use the forest in a sustainable and long-term way. I also share the image expressed by the interpellant that we have been good at this in Sweden. Forest owners and industry have taken great responsibility over time. Politically, we have been very clear about making demands and providing incentives for it. In the current situation, it is of the utmost importance that we continue to work on the issues on the political agenda that lies in the pipeline. We need to think about how we ensure ownership issues. This is a point included in the January agreement. We will set up an investigation aimed at strengthening property rights and having new flexible forms of protection. However, it is also a question of taking into account remuneration issues in this context. In cases where forests are exempted for various reasons, landowners shall be entitled to reasonable compensation. We also need to build on and develop the forest programme. The previous government laid down a forestry programme as a basis for the two objectives that have long been established: production targets and environmental objectives. It aims to start setting out the long-term rules of the game that are needed and which take advantage of all the great values and interests of the forest. What we are talking about here above all is the possibility of ensuring good and high production and constant development of production, but it is also, of course, about the values that are linked to the environment, recreation and other things. My view is that the forest and forest policy must be able to accommodate all these values in the development of long-term strategies. It is also my image and sense that this is actually possible.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-129	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government. I didn't really think I got an exact answer to whether the government considers Swedish forest production to be sustainable, but I got an approximate answer. Today we can say that we have protected about 31% from production. Do we need to protect more? Are we supposed to remove more land from production? It is, in fact, a fairly important issue, and I think it is an extremely important signal. As I said, this 31 percent consists of both high-productivity and low-productivity forest, also mountainside – all types of forest are housed. I know that the Swedish Forest Agency will deliver some kind of report or response to how much land is actually protected and what kind of protection it is, but it has not arrived yet. I also receive signals that we are probably very close to achieving our quantitative targets for forest protection. The voluntary provisions that will come in the coming years will push us over the area targets. Then we will achieve the last goals we have set ourselves. Then one wonders: Are we really supposed to take more land out of production if we see that we have perhaps already achieved the amount of land that we would protect? If it is the case that we have achieved the long-term objectives, then we cannot be happy to protect any more. Is there, in this situation, an urgent public interest in restricting the ownership of more land? The only time we have to restrict property rights is when the reason is public interest. Is there really an incentive to do this? I want to say something about the different types of protection. The regulation on the protection of species has long been said by the Government Office that it should be reviewed. We've been waiting for that for a long time, and I hope it's coming. We blew off the key biotop inventory with the M-KD budget, which won in this House. I would like an answer on how to think on from the government on key biotopes, because this is an extremely uncertain and legally insecure process for landowners. In the case of key biotopes, there has been an attempt – quality control, you might say. 14 key biotopes were set up, and then officials had to go out and look at them. In 13 cases out of 14 they did not have the same answer. This means that it is extremely legal insecure when it is the judgement of individual officials. It'll be a matter of assessment. How does the government view it? Officials act differently and sometimes work a little too much on their own. There are quite a few times emotional values in this. There may be officials who have emotional values in their work and may not really comply with the decisions we have made here in Parliament. Do we need to protect more forest? How do you think about the key biotopes in the future? Does the government see any concerns with individual officials?
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-135	Madam President, I would like I can begin by stating – if it was unclear in my first reply – that my picture is that Swedish production is essentially sustainable and has been so over time. But that does not mean that we must not continue to ensure that it is also for the future. Then John Widegren has in some sense several different tracks that he develops and wants answers to. I will try to graze them as best I can in the rather short time at my disposal. I would like to say that forests are a rather polarised issue, above all politically. I think that's a shame. I think that there is actually a rather broad consensus on what we want to achieve. Feelings are in some sense a good driving force. At the same time, however, it is extremely important that decisions that affect such large values are made on a scientific basis and in all parts correct decision-making documents. There is very little room for any politician or official to think otherwise. Having said that, I can also say that I believe that an important part of what is linked to, for example, how to look at and work with key biotopes is that regional and local conditions must be taken into account and that this is relevant. It is clear that in some sense it is delegating to officials to make that distinction. It is a constant challenge that we need to consider how we relate to it. At present, the Swedish Forest Board has been commissioned to develop the methodology for how to work with key biotopinventory. It should be based on greater consideration of regional and local conditions and should also be relevant. For my part, I think it's a good thing. That is how we must continue to work on this issue. When it comes to the agreement that exists between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals – what we call the January Agreement – it is clear that it says that it stops the expanded inventory of key biotopes. We'll do that right away. But we also say that it is extremely important to replace forest owners who, for various reasons, are not allowed to use their forests. They set it off for various reasons because it is worthy of protection, and they shall have benefits that are reasonable in relation to it. There are very many different issues on the table right now. They are important in their own right, but they must, above all, form a whole. We shall make it clear on the last line that we shall ensure that we create the long-term, stable conditions where it becomes very clear what is going on. The policy should be seen as relevant to the objectives we aim to achieve. But we will also work to have as broad an anchor as possible for the proposals. My ambition is for us to deliver on all of these goals. This does not mean that it will by definition be simple in all situations. Clearly, there will be opposing interests. The only way to create the long-term approach that is needed is to address all these issues on the basis of the values they represent. Then we have to ensure that they work in a whole to achieve the overall objective. We're going to have two goals. But we shall also ensure that we continue to be a nation at the forefront in relation to forest issues.
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-147	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I think the Council of State is sensible on many issues. It feels very good that way. I did not really get the answer to the question: should we protect more area? The Swedish National Audit Office's report showed very clearly that we protected too much on quantity instead of quality. It is extremely important to take it with you. It is clear that we should protect land that has extremely high biological values. But it may well be that land that we have chosen in time to protect and remove from production no longer holds the high natural values. Then we must have an opportunity to remove the protection of those lands when we pick up new lands that we see as worthy of protection. Many times biologically high values can move. It is not certain that they are locked on a geographical point for all time. I think it's extremely important. I do not think that we should increase area by much more for what we are protecting. Then we cannot supply the forest industry with raw materials. It's a fact. We will not be able to support the forest industry and its ambitions with increased investment into the future. We also see that they are extremely important. It's time to stop and wait for the answers. In real terms, I think we're right. That is why we need to stimulate production in the forest. We will definitely protect the best and high natural values. But we now need to think seriously about production. Production goes hand in hand with climate-smart work. My last question is: should we protect more area-wise?
i-90fda9a3d5c39f0d-153	Madam President, I would like I believe, above all, that we should protect the right and use wisely. That sometimes means that we need to have a certain volume. What is important now is that we ensure that we develop the methodology and ensure that we have a legally secure and qualitatively good key biotop inventory in Sweden. It's a priority for me. Now we have not talked much about this in the interpellation debate. But I believe that there is a great deal to be done linked to the fact that we want to ensure that we have a raw material, about which the interpellation is about, which is sufficient to the industry. We're gonna use what we usually use more fully. There is more to be done to ensure that everything, including waste material, is used, which is now in the forest at present. I believe that there is more to be done with regard to methods of sustainable logging. This means that you hurt less forest when, for example, moving wood in and out. You can develop how to lay roads and what type of vehicle you use and so on. I think there is more to do when it comes, for example, to reuse more of what goes into production, especially on the paper and pulp pages. You have to work very broadly on all parts. My final summary of what I'm trying to say is, very short and clear: protect the right, and use wisely.
