i-5fpytBNSVUMK5x1bUhtdPr	An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Per Bolund, Minister Annika Strandhäll, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and Minister Hans Dahlgren. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-c13266b95347f0db-1	Madam President, I would like We feel worse and the number of sick leave due to mental illness is increasing. It is also difficult to diagnose mental illness. When an administrator at Försäkringskassan has to decide whether to be on sick leave or not, a predetermined form of support is used. The Swedish National Audit Office, which reviews our authorities, has criticised this model of support. They say it is so unclear that administrators can make different assessments of the same medical certificate.
i-c13266b95347f0db-4	Madam President, I would like The Social Insurance Agency's administrators have a wide range of support at their disposal in order to be able to make the most legally secure assessments possible. Every year, approximately 600 000 assessments of the right to sickness benefit are made at Försäkringskassan. One also needs to have an understanding of the complexity of the task of the Social Insurance Agency's handler. As a minister, I should not go in and have views on what templates individual authorities use. However, we have said that there should be legal certainty in the proceedings and not least that those in need of sick leave should receive the support and assistance they need to get back to health and/ or work as quickly as possible.
i-c13266b95347f0db-6	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is of course very important that you have a legally secure system. However, since we have decision support that contains so much preference for interpretation, it is difficult to guarantee that the same medical certificate leads to the same assessment. I therefore see that there is potential for establishing much safer decision-making support in order to obtain a safe assessment of the health certificates that are made.
i-c13266b95347f0db-8	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the honourable Member for a good and important question. I agree that we should ensure that, in relation to the individual, it is made as legally secure and good judgements as it is ever possible. I also agree that there is always a major area of improvement. In dialogue with the agency, we continuously work to raise the importance of people understanding why they get the decisions they get and that they get the right support.
i-c13266b95347f0db-11	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hans Dahlgren. In the area of social policy, responsibility within the EU should largely be at national level, which is sound and good. Unfortunately, it now turns out, contrary to this, that a directive aimed at forcing Member States to implement quota parental insurance is on the way from the EU. The Commission and Parliament wish four months of quota while the Council of Ministers has now landed in two months. Whether this means a change for Sweden or not, depending on where the final directive lands, we believe that this is, in principle, total madness on the part of the European Union. Surely it must be absolutely obvious that it is not politicians, especially politicians in Brussels, who are to decide how families with children should set up their own everyday lives and how they want to distribute their parental leave. How can the Social Democrats be in favour of this proposal and thereby work towards abandoning the principle of social policy at national level?
i-c13266b95347f0db-15	Madam President, I would like Quotation of parental leave is nothing new. It has existed for a long time within the EU system, within the framework of the Parental Leave Directive. Now it is a minimum level; it is a matter of two months. It is far below what we have in Sweden. That is why we are not worried about anything.
i-c13266b95347f0db-16	Madam President, I would like As the proposal now stands, it is two months, which would not mean any change – because the Social Democrats have previously introduced mandatory quotas in Sweden. But we in the Swedish Democrats do not want quotas at all. My question is, above all, that quotas are quite the wrong way to go if we want to achieve equality. Do not the Social Democrats see a fundamental difficulty in the EU interfering with families' own everyday puzzles? Shouldn't it be up to Sweden first to decide how we want it and secondly up to each family with children to decide how you want it?
i-c13266b95347f0db-18	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats see great advantages in the fact that men and women share responsibility for the care of children and that they have the opportunity to take the leave mentioned here.
i-c13266b95347f0db-20	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Hans Dahlgren. As you know, the United Kingdom has decided to withdraw from the European Union. It creates great frustration and wonder among all the hundreds of thousands of Swedes who live in the UK about what will happen in the future, with children's schooling, health insurance, pensions and so on. The risk is obvious that there will be no agreement with the UK after they have left the EU. Then my question is: Does the Government think that Sweden and the Government have done enough to allay the concerns that all these people feel in many ways?
i-c13266b95347f0db-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. There is great cause for concern about the situation we are now in. The clock is ticking, and there are less than two months left until March 29. Our hope remains that there will be an orderly exit. But the government has prepared for the situation that may arise, for a crash landing out of the EU for the UK. These include the groups mentioned by Eskil Erlandsson, Swedes who live in and work in the UK. We have now made preparations here at home for the British who live in Sweden. We also know that the UK has the same ambition to try to achieve some level playing field even if there is a withdrawal without an agreement. What the Swedish Government can do is to ensure that the benefits of some Swedes living in the UK continue to be maintained through so-called transfer.
i-c13266b95347f0db-28	Madam President, I would like My supplementary question is: will there be a time around which there will be a vacuum, if I may put it that way? The UK is planning to withdraw on 29 March. When can Swedish and British legislation be in place so that these people do not get any vacuum in, for example, their health insurance and pensions?
i-c13266b95347f0db-29	Madam President, I would like Our ambition, of course, is to avoid a vacuum, if at all possible. We have a proposal for a referral, and it will be prepared here in the Riksdag as usual. I hope that this can happen as soon as possible so that there will be no difficulties for the citizens concerned.
i-c13266b95347f0db-30	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. The government negotiations between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party resulted in a list of reform proposals. Several of these concern the housing market. One of the proposals is to introduce free renting in new production, i.e. market rents, which both the Social Democrats and the Green Party opposed in the past. You spoke about it during the election campaign and promised not to introduce it. You simply want to abandon the Swedish model in the housing market, according to which society takes responsibility for citizens having good housing at reasonable cost regardless of income. The effects of market rents are greatly increased rents, increased housing segregation and larger class gaps. Nevertheless, why do you want to abandon the current leasing system in which the parties negotiate the level of rent and instead introduce market rents in new production?
i-Ks22fYm6LtvoZsn8uYbq2E	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Momodou Malcolm Jallow, for the question! It is true that this is not an issue that neither the Green Party nor the Social Democrats had with them in the electoral movement. However, as Mr Momodou well knows, we ended up in a very difficult parliamentary situation. It was crucial that the parties could move and find compromises so that we could get a government in place. This is an area where we have compromised. The government will now set up a study to look at what a system of free market price setting for new construction in the rental portfolio may look like. We will have to come back with a concrete proposal in this area. I do not think we should overdramatise the effects of such a proposal. We already have principles that make us close to a market price for new construction in, for example, metropolitan areas through so-called presumption rents. There are also assessors who say that market price setting may even lead to lower rental costs in some areas. Let us come back when we have a concrete proposal in place!
i-c13266b95347f0db-38	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The production of rental apartments does not increase when market rents are introduced. This has been seen in different countries. There is not a single country where there are market rents and free renting where also the production of cheap rentals has increased. This only benefits property owners. But even these are not unanimous or convinced that market rents are the right way to go, according to a survey conducted by the Tenant Association. This will affect all families with children, the unemployed, pensioners and so on. Why do you want to introduce market rents even though many property owners themselves feel that this is not necessary?
i-c13266b95347f0db-41	Madam President, I would like As I said, this was a compromise between different parties. We had to give and take. This was something that the Center Party and Liberals brought into the negotiations, and we accepted it. The system will now be investigated. I think it is important to look at this as a whole and not just at a single separate issue. It will be a broad palette with various housing policy instruments that can be used. This applies, in particular, to investment aid, which is aimed precisely at producing rental apartments with low rental costs and also at a high level of energy efficiency. We will therefore have to work with several different measures to reach a good and functioning rental market. Situation in Venezuela and Sweden's action in the EU
i-c13266b95347f0db-45	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Hans Dahlgren. First of all, I would like to welcome him in his new role. After all, we have been meeting through the EU Council for many years. I would like to address the situation in Venezuela. It has developed into a humanitarian crisis. Unfortunately, Sweden and the EU have been acting passively for a long time in terms of repression and the effect of the so-called socialist revolution, which has led to today's chaotic development. When, in principle, all the countries in the immediate vicinity of Venezuela turn against Nicolá Maduro and reject him as its President, we, too, in Europe, must show that we are on the side of the Venezuelan people in the fight for democracy and human rights. What will Sweden do in the EU to achieve a strong marking and a common position?
i-c13266b95347f0db-49	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The very dramatic situation in Venezuela is an important situation. It is precisely today that the EU Foreign Ministers are discussing this at the so-called Gymnich meeting. We know that both Sweden and the other EU Member States have a firm view that the Venezuelan people must be allowed to decide their future freely and peacefully. The EU is now going to work hard to make this a reality. The EU has called for new elections to be announced in the near future. That is a clear signal to Mrs Maduro, who now has the leadership shirt, if you may say so. After all, we have not recognised the outcome of the elections. One idea that I know the Swedish Foreign Minister has brought to the Gymnich meeting is to create an international contact group that will be able to work together with the countries that are most involved in the matter. I know that she will also report that Sweden has an interest in participating in such a contact group. I hope that will be a concrete result.
i-c13266b95347f0db-53	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It sounds positive if we're on the move. The EPP, our European political group in the European Parliament, will today vote in favour of a resolution to support Juan Guaidó. I wonder if the EU Minister would consider following up on this resolution and working for the EU to recognise the President of the National Assembly of Venezuela, Juan Guaidó, as the country's legitimate President?
i-c13266b95347f0db-55	Madam President, I would like As far as recognition is concerned, Sweden, like many other countries, has the principle that we do not recognise governments, but we recognise countries. It is Venezuela as a nation that has been recognized by Sweden, not any particular person.
i-c13266b95347f0db-56	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Annika Strandhäll. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the management of the premium pension is carried out cost-effectively for the benefit of the savers. The other day, we in the Social Security Committee were given an account of this. The audit has identified a number of shortcomings that should be addressed without delay. What is the government doing about these shortcomings? It is of course very important for the public to have confidence in the management of these funds.
i-c13266b95347f0db-58	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Westerholm, for this incredibly important question! Unfortunately, in recent years we have had to see how several parts of the premium pension scheme that Sweden's pension savers must be able to rely on have been abused in a horribly to say the least. We have hunted billions both in Malta and in Luxembourg, where pension savers' money has been lost. Nevertheless, I am pleased to say that I think we have a very good cooperation in the Pensions Group. We agree on a series of reforms to secure the premium pension system. It is both a number of reforms that came into force at the turn of the year and that by 2020 we will have a completely new premium pension scheme in place. This system should enable Swedish pension savers to feel completely secure with it. The way it is now, we shouldn't have it.
i-c13266b95347f0db-61	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is very important that this comes out to everyone covered by the pension system so that they can feel that it is high quality of fund management one of the money they have chosen to invest themselves. The shortcomings I mentioned are very worrying. That is why I ask you to remedy them quickly.
i-c13266b95347f0db-64	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Westerholm. Once again, I can only underline my ambition and our ambition to ensure that we have a safe and secure premium pension system. It is also gratifying that we are six out of eight parties in the Swedish Parliament working together on these issues. I feel very confident that we will have the Liberals with us in this work in the future.
i-c13266b95347f0db-66	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi. The fact that all of Sweden will live is an important starting point from many aspects. I want to highlight the role of county boards. These 21 independent authorities have a broad mandate and are an important part of regional development. They also guarantee through their existence the state presence throughout the country. The Swedish National Audit Office has today submitted an audit report on the government's governance of the county boards. It emphasises the broad mandate and makes a number of recommendations. There is talk of improved coordination and a holistic approach. It should also be pointed out that the regions have now in practice taken over the responsibilities of the county councils and thus have regional development in their mission. That, too, focuses on this issue. As I see it, it is important that there is good interaction between municipalities, regions and states for this.
i-c13266b95347f0db-71	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Håkansson for this important issue. The county administrative boards are a very important part of the state's regional foundation. It is good that we have strong regions in Sweden that are responsible for regional development and now for health care and public transport. But the Swedish state must also have a strong presence throughout the country and be present on the issues that are handled locally and regionally. Therefore, we have worked for a long time to develop the operations of the county administrative boards and provide them with better conditions. One of the most important reforms carried out by the government during the last term of office was to improve the financial conditions for the county administrative appropriations. In the Swedish state, we have many skilled employees who work on the county administrative boards. They must be given better opportunities, less administration and greater room for manoeuvre to take advantage of the interests of the Swedish state power.
i-c13266b95347f0db-73	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It sounds like the Secretary of State has a good understanding and understanding of future work. In the last budget, which was unfortunately voted through here in the Riksdag with a right majority, there are cuts in the county boards' environmental inspections. The risk is obvious that climate work will thus stop. These can be important measures for seas and sensitive environmental areas. Will the Minister of Civil Affairs push forward to strengthen climate work in the future?
i-c13266b95347f0db-75	Madam President, I would like The budget decided by this House with the support of the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats represents a saving of SEK 65 million in terms of the county boards' environmental inspections. It may not sound like much in this House, but it does mean a change in person for virtually all county boards throughout our country. But this is not just a matter of climate change. It is about environmental inspections of environmentally hazardous activities in our industries and, among other things, dams. This is serious and reminds us of the need to strengthen the county boards.
i-c13266b95347f0db-77	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. On the Internet, in the subway, when we sit down on TV, on the bus, from the radio when we eat breakfast – everywhere we are exposed to advertising. Recently, I and many others have noticed that something that has completely exploded is gambling advertising, including online. You get tips on how to make fast money. Money in your hand in five minutes! No bets needed! Here's an online casino for you! In the January agreement we can read how the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party agree that household indebtedness should be reduced. My question to the Government is what he and the Government intend to do to ensure that the increase in gambling advertising does not lead to an increase in household indebtedness.
i-c13266b95347f0db-80	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Hult for the question. First of all, the Swedish state is back. From 1 January, Swedish law applies to the Swedish gambling market for the first time in several decades. Swedish law applies in our country to all the gaming companies that operate. It's been like that for 31 days. It was about time– it should have been done a long time ago. But now it's in place. Now it is important to ensure that Spelsinspektionen and the Swedish Consumer Agency get the right conditions to ensure that the law is followed by all those who hold a licence. Those who do not comply with the rules must face severe sanctions. We will ensure that all gaming companies meet the requirements of the legislation regarding care obligations and moderate marketing. One might ask whether we have moderate marketing at this stage in terms of gambling activities. I don't think we have. That is why we will have to continue working on this issue. The Government has a parallel evaluation of the implementation of the new legislation. This is handled by Statskontoret. We are serious that Swedish law should apply in our country also in the gaming field.
i-c13266b95347f0db-82	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It's a little comforting, even though I'm still a little worried. There is also a parallel investigation by the Kronofogden, which looks at these two parameters, as you will know. You can carry that with you in your work. I have a supplementary question. Italy has now chosen as the first country in the EU to impose a total ban on online gambling advertising and on radio and television. Is it a road that Sweden could go?
i-c13266b95347f0db-84	Madam President, I would like Legislative processes are also ongoing in Denmark. There is a debate on this. But we have had this new Swedish legislation and the re-regulation of the gaming market in place for 31 days. There is probably first and foremost reason to ensure that this law is implemented and followed by all actors. Then we have reason to evaluate the implementation. We and the parties involved in the development of the game reform have not ruled out the need for more action by the state.
i-c13266b95347f0db-86	Madam President, I would like There is a port conflict in Sweden. Previously, the Port of Gothenburg was severely affected. An investigation was set up. The parties agreed. A proposal was submitted for referral. Both LO and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, but also Sweden's Municipalities and County Council and TCO, are behind the proposals to limit strike opportunities. But with good reason it is emphasised that these legislative changes should be made this year – not next year, as the government has proposed – in order to stop these problems, which so harm both Swedish economy and Swedish companies. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister Bolund: Is the government prepared to urgently return to Parliament with a bill so that we can find a solution to the port problems already this year and not next year, as it stands today in the Government's proposal?
i-c13266b95347f0db-88	Madam President, I would like It is of course worrying that there is a conflict going on that could potentially have major consequences for the Swedish economy. At the same time, it is important that we stick to the Swedish model, which basically says that it is the social partners who will settle the working conditions in the labour market. We take this issue very seriously. In the port sector, working peace has not been achieved for 40 years, if you are to be correct. It's troubling. That is why we have produced a bill that is prepared within the Government Office. The deadline is now due, so it is a little too early to present a precise timetable for how it can be taken forward. But we have made a proposal. It shows that we take this issue seriously. How quickly we can move forward in a timetable, we will have to come back to when we have seen the referral points and put them together.
i-c13266b95347f0db-90	Madam President, I would like The harbour of Gothenburg was hit really hard. Now other ports are affected. Ultimately, companies and the Swedish economy are affected. We note that the parties to the Swedish labour market fully agree that these legislative changes should be made to stop these deviations in the Swedish model. The parties in general, such as TCO, Saco and the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting, want the same. The government has stated in its proposal that the solution will come next year. I think it should happen this year. I therefore hope that the government will change its mind and come to Parliament with a bill as soon as possible.
i-c13266b95347f0db-92	Madam President, I would like We take this issue very seriously. We have produced a proposal that has been out for a referral. We can now take the views of interested parties and put them together. We are also active in the form that we stand for mediation that is state mediated. We hope that the parties will be able to come closer together and, at best, find a solution. We will proceed with the proposal which has now been referred and will analyse it. Then we will have to come back to how quickly we can do that.
i-c13266b95347f0db-93	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Hans Dahlgren. Sweden has historically been one of the largest net contributors to the EU. In connection with the discussions on the multi-year budget, our discounts risk disappearing and our fee to increase by up to SEK 15 billion per year. These 15 billion are needed in Sweden for measures in the areas of care queues, insecurity, poor pensioners, care and welfare. The holes are many and extensive. This applies not least after the mismanagement of the last four years. Swedish tax revenue should primarily be used for Swedish welfare. My question is: If the final proposal for a multi-annual budget will mean a significantly increased Swedish EU levy, I wonder whether the EU Minister and the Swedish Government are prepared to use the veto tool in the Council of Ministers to stop this.
i-c13266b95347f0db-97	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It is an important issue for the government, the whole of the Swedish people and for the European Union as a whole what the future long-term budget for the EU should look like that will take effect in 2021. There is a proposal put forward by the Commission which, as the questioner said, means that the Swedish EU levy would be significantly higher than it has been during the current period. It is a proposal that we do not accept. It is a proposal which represents an unfair burden-sharing. We want more justice between the different Member States. We do not accept the kind of phasing out of the Swedish rebate that the proposal entails. We will work against it. Of course we need allies. We have. There are several other Member States which, like us, think about reducing the level of the EU budget. We cannot keep on having the same expenditure when a large Member State like the UK, which is a net contributor, leaves the Union, but we must cut back. That is our ambition. The decision shall then be taken unanimously.
i-c13266b95347f0db-101	Madam President, I would like I welcome and regret a little the news. The last parliamentary term was quite clear that we had a great deal of agreement in the Swedish Parliament that we should have a restrictive stance on the EU's long-term budget. The government had support for its position, as I see it, from all parties in the Riksdag. But it's pretty toothless and not worth much if you're not prepared to use the veto. If we are told that we do not accept this, does that mean that the government is ultimately prepared to use a veto to stop the increase in fees? Then you have our support. I think you have a majority of the parties in Parliament behind it. I think you should use that weapon.
i-c13266b95347f0db-103	Madam President, I would like The Treaty on European Union states that the decision on the long-term budget is to be taken unanimously in the European Council. This means that all 27, who are well left then, will agree on it. Of course we have to work for our interest. In the end, there must be something that everyone can accept or, I suppose, everyone is just as unhappy with.
i-c13266b95347f0db-105	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Annika Strandhäll and concerns mental illness, which is the most common reason for young people to be on sick leave. We have seen that school children's mental illness has increased in investigations from 1985 onwards. Both the functioning of the school and the demands and expectations of education and skills for young people to enter the labour market have been pointed out. When it comes to how mental illness affects young people in the labour market, there is not so much research. Despite the fact that increased mental illness results in long sick leave, there is still a lack of knowledge in this area. I think we all agree in this House that it is quite serious when young people start their lives on the labour market with long sick leave. My question to the Government is: What is the government doing to increase knowledge in order to prevent this development?
i-c13266b95347f0db-109	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Qarlsson, for a question about one of the most important health issues in modern times in Sweden! It is about young people entering the labour market with an accompanying mental illness or a risk of mental illness. It's about children and young people who go to school where a common reason why they can't manage school work and therefore can't make it through comprehensive school can be mental illness. Mental illness is also the most common cause of sick leave among both women and men in Sweden since 2006. During the last parliamentary term, the government spent considerable resources both on preventing mental illness and on building a structure in health care and providing decision support, but more needs to be done. During this parliamentary term, I see measures in the area of responsibility that I have today: health insurance.
i-c13266b95347f0db-112	Madam President, I would like There are many efforts made to meet what has already been developed and where you have these concerns and troubles. What I'm really asking is how we can increase our knowledge so that we can't get there without preventing it. The parties have now, together with Afa, made investments with the right amount of money. Research in this field will be carried out in different ways. But even more knowledge is needed from here as well. I am therefore thinking about what the government can do more to increase knowledge.
i-c13266b95347f0db-114	Madam President, I would like In short, I can say that I am very aware that the social partners have taken responsibility for research into mental illness. What the government is now on the table, and which we will continue to work on, is that we have special forums together with the social partners where we are discussing just healthier workplaces. There, the discussion on mental illness and what the government and the social partners can do together is such an important issue that we will continue to work on.
i-c13266b95347f0db-116	Madam President, I would like The Swedish pension system is fundamentally robust and stable, which is a prerequisite for safe and sustainable pensions. Nevertheless, we see that far too many pensioners receive too low pensions. That is something that we Social Democrats can never accept. The last term of office increased pensions, due to favourable economic development but also to the fact that the S-led government made several important efforts to strengthen pensioners' incomes through reduced tax and increased housing. In the cross-block P ension group, we reached a historic agreement which included several important improvements to the guarantee pension, the housing supplement and the premium pension. My question is what the Minister for Social Security considers to be the most important issues to address this term of office in order to further improve the conditions for pensioners.
i-2KZGfyyhnzG3jhMMfVT9uF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Teresa Carvalho, for that question! Several efforts were made during the last parliamentary term. What we see before us in this parliamentary term is within the framework of the pension agreement that we were involved in and concluded with the other parties. As early as 2020, significant improvements will be made to both a higher housing supplement for pensioners and further reinforcement of the guarantee pension. Then we have Social Democrats in the agreement that we have now reached with C, L and MP additional ambitions and want to see further increases in pensions by 2021 with at least SEK 600 per month for those pensioners who have the toughest. In addition, the Social Democrats believe that there is a need to increase contributions to the pension system in order for our children and grandchildren to feel safe with adequate pensions in the future. This is a high priority for us during our term of office.
i-c13266b95347f0db-121	Madam President, I would like I am particularly pleased that the Minister highlights precisely those pensioners who have worked and worked a full working life and who do not necessarily benefit from basic protection but who still receive relatively low income pensions. Of course, it should pay to have worked and been involved in building our welfare country. I would also like to take this opportunity to send a message to continue with the tax issue. Of course, the pensioner should not pay higher taxes than the person who works.
i-c13266b95347f0db-122	Madam President, I would like If it is something that is extremely important, it is that we have invested a great deal of resources in removing the unfair difference in taxation between wage earners and pensioners that was introduced under the alliance government. This difference should be completely gone by 2020. We are also really going to ensure that pensioners – many of whom are women – who have worked a whole life to get a decent pension. It's basic.
i-c13266b95347f0db-124	Madam President, I would like The Social Insurance Agency, like other authorities, has an expectation of carrying out effective work and increasing production. One thing that may be unfavourable to such efficiency and development is the need to spend a lot of time on hiring new staff. On 1 December, the acting Director-General participated in the Ekot Saturday interview and said that there is a need for higher education courses that are specialised, for example with content on medical assessment. Such training would also involve greater professionalisation and could increase efficiency and legal certainty. I would like to ask Minister Strandhäll if she agrees that there is a need of this kind and if that is the case.
i-c13266b95347f0db-127	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for the question! We heard earlier during Question Time here today that I was given an example of the concerns of another Member that different assessments of their medical certificates could be obtained. I also explained the complexity of the administrators in the work they do at Försäkringskassan. We are of course conducting a continuous dialogue with the government management at Försäkringskassan about how we can contribute in different ways to improving the conditions for Försäkringskassan to accomplish its difficult task. The question raised here by Rasmus Ling has also been raised with the department. I think it sounds like an exciting idea that there should be a more specialised education for those who work with these complex issues on our authorities.
i-c13266b95347f0db-130	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. It is, of course, a complex task as such a large authority as Försäkringskassan. It is all the more important, then, that there is ongoing development work, that you can constantly work on how to strengthen the skills of the employees and so on. We also hope that Försäkringskassan will soon be able to have an ordinary Director General so that such development work can be carried out in the future.
i-c13266b95347f0db-132	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to come and bring basic skills into work. But it is also, and not least, important that as an employer, we constantly work with skills development as regulations change, the world around us changes and demands for work change. I think that is extremely important. The recruitment to the Director General of Försäkringskassan has been paused, just as the government's work during the autumn. But it is now running again with full power.
i-c13266b95347f0db-135	Madam President, I would like Sweden has strengthened border controls as a result of threats to public order and internal security in Sweden. However, we continue to receive signals that border controls are not working. The Swedish border police themselves report that the lack of resources is complete; they lack everything from staff to premises and computers. There's no way to watch who gets into the country. The lack of Swedish border protection means that people as well as drugs, weapons and stolen goods easily move in and out of our country. The Moderates and Christian Democrats have contributed considerable resources to the Police Authority in this year's budget. But it is also necessary for the government to give priority to border protection. Otherwise, what should ultimately be a protection for Sweden risks becoming a paper tiger.
i-c13266b95347f0db-138	Madam President, I would like Border controls are of great importance. Not least, the authorities responsible for maintaining the security of our country point out that border controls play an important role. That is why we also agree that they should continue as long as they are needed. How they are then carried out is primarily a police matter. The police authority is an independent authority and has to organize its activities in the way that one finds best. On the other hand, it is important that we ensure that the authority has the resources it needs to be able to carry out a good and efficient operation. We have taken great steps during the last term of office and intend to do so also during this term of office to ensure that you have the resources to carry out a good operation. Of course, this is something that the government will follow during its term of office in dialogue with the Police Authority. If there is a need, there are also opportunities to send signals in regulatory letters and in other ways.
i-c13266b95347f0db-141	Madam President, I would like I take note of what the Government says. At the same time, this has been a recurring criticism. The European Commission has also considered that large parts of Swedish border control activities are so inadequate that they violate EU rules. The Commission says, among other things, that urgent action should be taken by the authorities to address the backlogs and gaps identified at both strategic and operational levels. ..................................................... The government has been aware of the shortcomings for a long time. Why have they not been corrected, given what the Government just said about the last term of office?
i-c13266b95347f0db-143	Madam President, I would like Of course, we also have a continuous dialogue with the European Commission. We take their views to heart, and of course the Police Authority does. It is a sensitive authority that takes on board the views of, for example, the EU. I am convinced that the police are taking this very seriously and are also working intensively to address the shortcomings that have been pointed out. We, of course, also take this very seriously on behalf of the government and are sensitive. Of course, we will work to ensure the best efficiency of the border police.
i-c13266b95347f0db-146	Madam President, I would like Turkey is today an unstable and authoritarian state that imprisons the most journalists in the world, arrests and tortures opponents and exacerbates the war in Syria. In addition, Turkey is led by a pronounced Islamist. In view of the situation in the country, the Prime Minister reported to the EU Board a few years ago that the membership negotiations had in fact stopped long ago and that this was also reasonable in view of developments. Then it is also reasonable that pre-accession aid to Turkey should be affected. But, Madam President, Turkey still receives more pre-accession aid than any other candidate country. For the years 2018 – 2020, the support amounts to approximately SEK 20 billion. It's not a small penny.
i-c13266b95347f0db-150	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I do not know if I have any authority to put an end to this support. But I can say that the background is, of course, that there is a desire from the European Union for Turkey to become a completely different society than it is today. We stand by the criticism of the lack of respect for human rights in Turkey and the way in which special action has been taken in recent times. There is no question of going further on the issue of accession negotiations with Turkey than we have now.
i-c13266b95347f0db-152	Madam President, I would like The Government does not seem to know the purpose of the pre-accession aid. The purpose of the aid is not to make Turkey a completely different country from it today. The purpose of this assistance is to prepare Turkey for accession to the European Union. It can't be clearer. Nevertheless, this somehow reveals that there is an ambition somewhere in the future to make Turkey a member. We consider that to be irresponsible, to say the least.
i-c13266b95347f0db-154	Madam President, I would like Of course, we want Turkey to become a different society than it is today. We use all the methods we have at our disposal to act in this direction.
i-c13266b95347f0db-155	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. During the last parliamentary term, major efforts were made to find more housing for young people, students and the elderly. The goal was clear: F smile would find a place to live. But despite the fact that we started building strongly, we have not yet solved the housing crisis. Many people in the country are concerned about how things will turn out and think: What about my home in the future?
i-c13266b95347f0db-158	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Vepsä, for a very important question! Housing shortages are a major problem both for us as individuals and for society as a whole, for a functioning labour market, and for example for carrying out the studies you want to pursue. This is therefore an issue that is very important for the government and also an important part of the January agreement that we have concluded with the Center Party and the Liberals, where it is clear, among other things, that we are going to make major changes in the residential area. We will also maintain and develop investment support, which goes to apartments with low rental costs and high energy efficiency. We will also continue with regulatory simplification work, for example reviewing national interests and how to encourage construction outside of the planned area. We therefore need to take a wide range of measures to improve the functioning of the housing market.
i-c13266b95347f0db-161	In the budget decided by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, the ambitions are, to say the least, much lower than those proposed by the government. What do you say to the young people who are currently waiting in the housing queue and may not be able to get a first home in the future because they have reduced the ambitions of housing policy?
i-c13266b95347f0db-162	Before I let the Government in, I would just like to remind you that we are not talking in your form in here, but through the President.
i-c13266b95347f0db-163	Madam President, I would like I think it is unfortunate when we have a thorny policy in the residential area. Housing is an investment-heavy business. The conditions that prevail must be long-term and provide stability. I am concerned about the signal that many housing companies are now receiving as a result of the budget voted in here in Parliament by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. We have now agreed that we will restore investment aid and ensure that it will benefit in the future. This is a welcome message, both for those on the housing queue and for those housing companies who actually want to build good housing for everyone.
i-c13266b95347f0db-166	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. During the previous parliamentary term, the Parliament decided on an announcement to the Government about increased official responsibilities and possibilities to follow up errors committed in a clear way, in order to increase confidence in our general institutions. I have been looking for progress in the area that the government has made and therefore I was going to ask the Government: How is it going? When will we see progress in this important area so that confidence in our general institutions can be increased?
i-c13266b95347f0db-168	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for a relevant question. It is an important part of the administrative policy to maintain citizens' confidence in the public and the Swedish state. For this reason, the government initiated several reforms during the last parliamentary term, including confidence reforms aimed at increasing trust in the governance of public activities and the core values delegation, whose work is about maintaining the state values. But as Erik Ottoson describes, there is a need to continue working on the issue during this term of office. Not least, it is a question of maintaining the role of civil servant. Several parties have raised the issue of the need for a civil servant training, as a basic education for those who start working in the state. Close to this issue is also the question of the responsibility of officials who make decisions. We will have to come back to these issues during our term of office. They will be an important part of the management policy.
i-c13266b95347f0db-171	Madam President, I would like I just want to ask you a control question. Should I interpret the Government's response as meaning that he considers this to be a matter of urgency and that the Government also intends to implement, so that this will not be an announcement which it considers to be met without implementation?
i-c13266b95347f0db-172	Madam President, I would like Yes, the answer should be interpreted as meaning that it is important for the government to pursue the issue of the civil servant role and to strengthen it. As far as civil servants are concerned from a criminal law point of view, I am not the responsible minister, but those questions are in the Ministry of Justice. However, as far as training and other activities related to the role of civil servants are concerned, I can tell you today that this will be an important administrative policy issue for the government during this term of office.
i-c13266b95347f0db-175	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and is about consumer policy. Budget and debt counselling is mandatory for municipalities in the country to offer. However, this does not apply to consumer guidance. This would prevent many people from falling into debt. The consumer advisor can give advice and help vulnerable consumers make informed choices in a world where many contracts today are long and complicated.
i-c13266b95347f0db-177	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sanne Lennström, for an important question! During the last term of office, the Swedish Consumer Agency initiated and started a national consumer information service, Hallå konsument, which has been very successful. There, consumers receive support on consumer-related issues. I will, of course, also be conducting a dialogue with the Swedish Consumer Agency during this term of office on how we can develop national consumer information. However, there are worrying developments in municipal consumer information. There we see that there are cuts in the municipalities. Therefore, Statskontoret has been tasked with mapping the municipal consumer support work. In April we will have an evaluation of Statskontoret, and we will of course then proceed with the matter.
i-c13266b95347f0db-179	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Consumer policy is today a very high profile area. The Swedish Consumer Agency has a vision that society should have conscious and safe consumers. How does the Government think we can work towards achieving that goal?
i-c13266b95347f0db-181	Madam President, I would like There are several aspects. One is, of course, consumer guidance and information, which must be in place. There society must provide the right support. Another is to provide good conditions for and have good cooperation with the consumer movement. We see people getting involved in consumer-related issues, and we have more and more conscious consumers. This must be the basis for a partnership between the public and consumer movements, in order to make consumption more sustainable and more aware.
i-c13266b95347f0db-183	Madam President, I would like If you are ill, there must be financial security through health insurance. At the same time, it is of course important to prevent abuse of health insurance so as to safeguard that part of our welfare. The former government, where Annika Strandhäll was Minister of Social Security, had the goal of having the number of sick days by 2020 on average to be nine per year. This goal is now removed according to Försäkringskassan's regulatory letter. I have a question for Minister Strandhäll: Is this to be seen as a complete abandonment of this objective by the government, or will a new objective be introduced?
i-c13266b95347f0db-186	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katarina Brännström, for your question! I can assure the honourable Member that we, as the government, have a very clear ambition to ensure that the resources devoted to welfare go there. The resources allocated to our social security should go to what they are intended for and not to cheating, error or fraud. As Minister for Social Security, I will continue to have a clear focus on this. If you are ill, you should be able to feel safe in Sweden. You should be able to get the right support, and you should not have to worry day and night about your finances. You will receive support to get back to health and work. When we presented our regulatory letters as a transitional government, all political objectives were removed. Let me be clear that this is why the target of 9.0 is not in the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan.
i-c13266b95347f0db-189	Madam President, I would like I'll thank the Government for the answer, although I don't really know if it was an answer. Should the target be gone, or should it be reinstated? It is of course important that we have control of health insurance, as the Government says, and that we can ensure that abuse and overuse do not occur. How do you intend to continue your work if you do not set a goal?
i-c13266b95347f0db-190	Madam President, I would like We shall, of course, now look at how we will develop health insurance policy during this term of office. Sick absence in Sweden should be low and stable. Precisely how to set and formulate goals, we will have to come back to, but the reason why the figure 9.0 is now removed from the regulation letter is that we as a transitional government could not allow it to remain.
i-c13266b95347f0db-191	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. In November, the Riksdag decided on a new public service funding system to ensure long-term independence. It is a foundation of our democracy and, therefore, it should also be financed jointly by everyone through the tax bill. That's good. However, it is a sad consequence when Radiotjänst in Kiruna is forced to close. It is a workplace with 240 competent employees. If one were to scale it up to Stockholm, it would involve approximately 15 000 employees. So it's a big place of work. My question is simply: how are the replacement jobs going?
i-c13266b95347f0db-195	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Karkiainen, for the commitment to the jobs in Kiruna and for this issue! The Government announced last summer that, in connection with the changes in public service funding, measures will be taken to ensure that the Swedish state's presence in Kiruna does not deteriorate. That's why we've been working on compensatory work. I was able to announce yesterday that the Government's focus is that 120 government jobs will be moved to Kiruna during the second half of 2019. It will be about the Swedish Tax Agency, Lantmäteriet and the National Service Centre. There is a fantastic competence of the staff at Radiotjänst. That's what we're gonna take care of. That also requires active action on the part of the state, and we will take these measures. We won't let Kiruna down.
i-c13266b95347f0db-197	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your excellent and gratifying answer. This is not just about Radiotjänst but about the need for the state to be present and to appear throughout the country. It's about legitimacy. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to explain what the ambition is for the future in terms of government jobs throughout the country.
i-c13266b95347f0db-199	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to answer that question in 28 seconds. One can briefly say that yesterday we have been told how the moderate, Christian-democratic and Swedish democratic budget affects the A rbetsförmedlingen and the state jobs around our country. We have a lot of challenges in this area, but the Government's ambition remains: The Swedish state should take responsibility for the whole country. It requires a good presence throughout the country. It also requires more governance by the state authorities. We will continue to work on this issue. Now closest it is the service presence that is in focus.
i-c13266b95347f0db-202	Madam President, I would like My general policy question goes to Minister Per Bolund. In 2013, Stefan Löfven promised that we would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. At that time, Sweden was in tenth place among the EU countries. After a term of office with S and MP in government, we are now in 19th place. Although unemployment has fallen some, it has fallen more rapidly in other countries and is lower in countries with weaker economic cycles. I also note that the unemployment target is no longer in the government declaration and that there is no policy for more jobs in the agreement that is now the basis of government policy. Instead, it focuses on reduced taxes for high-income earners and people working less. A relevant question to Minister Per Bolund is then: Is it not time to acknowledge that the government's policy has failed in terms of employment policy and the goal?
i-c13266b95347f0db-206	Madam President, I would like This with goal is a two-edged sword. I remember that the previous government, Reinfeldt, set a target for us to have 5 million workers by 2020. This objective has been achieved by this government in the last term of office, already in 2017. We have succeeded very well in the labour market. Unemployment has fallen by 11⁄2% since the last parliamentary term, and we have the highest employment rate ever measured in an EU country, according to Eurostat. We have therefore done a great deal, but of course we need to work more. I do not agree with the analysis that there is no focus on work in the agreement we have reached in January. On the contrary, there is a great focus on creating the conditions for more jobs and also equipping those in unemployment to be able to take the jobs available. This is a work that we constantly need to engage in. We have worked very hard during the last parliamentary term and we will work very hard to reduce unemployment even during this parliamentary term.
i-c13266b95347f0db-211	Madam President, I would like It's all about timing, it's usually called timing. This claim is particularly true of the cheese. Ask Anna-Karin-Karin in Björklinge in Uppsala County! She got her vouchers on Christmas food on January 10th. Lutfish in January is well relatively good timing compared to if you get the debt collection requirement before you have received the invoice itself. This happened to Eva in Uppsala. Anna-Karin-Karin and Eva are not alone. On my Facebook there are very many from Uppsala who have written that their mail has come up to a month too late and more than that. Many Uppsala residents have also been financially affected by this through reminder and collection fees. Sometimes it has even gone as far as the Kronofogden. Therefore, my question to Minister Per Bolund is what the government intends to take for action so that what has happened in Uppsala will not happen again.
i-c13266b95347f0db-214	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gustaf Lantz, for a very important question! We must all be able to trust that the post will arrive and that it will arrive on time. Of course, it is incredibly serious if bills and the like do not come to us, so that we can pay them on time. Here we have postal legislation that is very clear. We should be able to rely on the post office whether it is managed by a state company or by a private company. There is also a regulatory authority, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, which is responsible for ensuring compliance with the legislation. I note that they have also begun a review of the postal distribution in Uppsala to see what has gone wrong. It is noted that disturbances can occur. It has happened before, too, in extreme weather or similar. However, longer interruptions of the type we have seen are not acceptable. I think it is good that a review has now been launched to find out what has gone wrong and can also make demands for the errors to be corrected. I also note that Citymail has said that those affected can submit their claims to the company. I suppose that is my call to those who have been adversely affected here.
i-c13266b95347f0db-219	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Annika Strandhäll, and it concerns family week. We Social Democrats believe that it is important to use the political tools at hand and make it easier for working parents to have more time with the most valuable, that is, the children, especially in these times when we get alarm reports that stress increases mental illness in general and that young people's mental illness creeps down into their ages. A regular employee usually has five weeks' holiday, which is most commonly used during school children's summer holidays. Then the planning days and days of the school and preschool for various meetings, which are extremely important for the operation, will be added.
i-c13266b95347f0db-223	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for a question that is very funny to receive! This feels like something that it will be great to do during the term of office – to make things easier for parents who often have a lot of stress. What it will be about is that parents who have children between the ages of four and 16 will have the opportunity to have three extra days off in the framework of parental insurance, three for each parent, so that you have the opportunity to take leave when the children cannot be at school for other reasons. It can be planned excursions that you want to be on. It could be other things. This means greater freedom for parents and a greater opportunity to plan life with their children. Respect for democracy and human rights in the EU
i-c13266b95347f0db-228	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Dahlgren. It reads as follows: Is there anything more that can be done from the Swedish side to make sense in ensuring that the principles of democracy and human rights are respected by all the Member States of the Union? We have seen and know that it is a very careful examination of those seeking membership of the Union. However, once they have become members and are on the inside, it seems that there is still a lack of opportunity to really make them responsible for violating these absolutely guiding principles for the whole of the Union.
i-c13266b95347f0db-230	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The answer is: Yes, there is more we can do. We have a few things that are already in place. Article 7 of the Treaty refers to how a country can ultimately be deprived of the right to vote if it does not meet the most basic requirements. The problem is that unanimity is required, and some of the countries that are on the edge here today are protecting each other. So it is a difficult process. We're about to have a budget negotiation. I think it is time now also to put the budgetary tool in our hands when it comes to getting all the Member States to respect fundamental rights. It should cost you not to take responsibility and not to do right by yourself. As Thomas Hammarberg knows, in the F N system there is something called universal periodic r eview. There is now a discussion within the EU about doing something similar, which reviews each other repeatedly.
i-c13266b95347f0db-234	Madam President, I would like The overriding issue in the EU area is, as I said, Britain's withdrawal from the Union. Their choosing to leave the Union is bad for Sweden, for the EU and not least for the British themselves. The UK is one of Sweden's most important research and innovation partners. The withdrawal will mean that Sweden will lose the support of one of the most like-minded countries in these particular areas. It is a lost support that can weaken Sweden's position in future framework programmes. The Government has commissioned Vinnova and the Swedish Research Council to find out what consequences Brexit can have in these areas. My question to Hans Dahlgren is: Can the Government give any reflections on the identified consequences? How can research and innovation in Europe and Sweden be affected by the UK's withdrawal?
i-c13266b95347f0db-237	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It's really relevant. The UK is a leader in research and innovation. Yesterday, I heard someone tell me that when the UK has left the EU, there will be no university in the EU that is among the top 20, but the ones we have in Europe are in the UK. But the beauty of the crow song is that in the draft political declaration on how to shape the future relationship between the EU and the UK, which we hope we will be able to row ashore eventually, there is a clear indication that we will include the UK in the cooperation on research, development and innovation. This is something that I think we want to take on board in London, in Stockholm and in other capitals.
i-c13266b95347f0db-240	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Dahlgren of the European Union. Ethiopia has had an enormous development over the past year. Unlike many other countries in the world that have moved towards authoritarianism, Ethiopia has done just the opposite. The political prisoners are released. Journalists are released, and human rights activists are released. In addition, political parties are allowed to come back and operate freely in Ethiopia again. There has also been peace with neighbouring Eritrea. But it is a great challenge to change from authoritarian government to a democratic one. Ethiopia is a large country on the Horn of Africa with over 100 million inhabitants. They need our support in the process of changing towards democracy. In the light of the positive developments in the Horn of Africa, I would like to ask the Minister of the European Union whether there are any proposals for initiatives that could be taken within the European Union to contribute to development and peace, not least with regard to many of the armed guerrillas in the country.
i-c13266b95347f0db-244	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It's really relevant. I must admit that this is one thing that I have not had time to look at in my ten days as a minister. But I promise you I will. I would like to return to the honourable Member with the information I can obtain. When one sees such a positive development on a continent where there are quite a few other concerns and concerns, it is clear that we in the European Union should take this on board.
