i-f2167bc368f80efe-1	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates' budget option for Category 2 means that we want to increase the grant to Finansinspektionen by SEK 10 million. The fight against money laundering and terrorist financing has become increasingly intense in the 21st century. In 2009, the new risk-based regulatory framework in the EU came, which places completely new demands on society's actors to try to prevent money laundering. The next step may be to improve opportunities for interaction between stakeholders. Let us not be naive. Money laundering will exist as long as it is possible to make money from crime. But money laundering is a moving goal where the ways of laundering money change as opportunities arise and become blocked. The regulatory framework has changed over the last ten years and has become increasingly detailed and complex. The banks have been given an almost police role in the work against money laundering, and each individual customer is to be audited and monitored, and deviations reported to the financial police. Large resources in the form of staff and computer power are devoted to the comprehensive task. However, money laundering is a moving objective in which the practices of criminal organisations are often one step ahead of legislation. Anti-money laundering work is currently not being carried out effectively enough. There are reasons for both authorities and companies to think in new ways about how we should work to combat money laundering. We must be open to new and perhaps also unconventional structures. It can be both about how we organise money laundering supervision and about and how we handle information and use new technology. But the great solutions will take time. We have to do things right now. We need to give priority to in-depth cooperation between today's authorities both within and outside the country. Similarly, we need to resolve the issue of how we can better share existing information both between authorities and between authorities and financial companies. We need less communication and more strict supervision. It is clear that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority's anti-money laundering work needs to be tightened up. The Financial Supervisory Authority must be given more resources to cope with the increased workload. The Moderates increase the grant by SEK 10 million in order to strengthen Finansinspektionen's efforts to combat money laundering. Mr President, I would like to Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 2. Finally, Mr President, I wish you a Merry Christmas!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-9	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether it is because it is Christmas soon, but even I could agree with a moderate's speech! It feels a little strange, but that's how it was in this case. On the issue of money laundering, one can well say that there seem to be many common points between the political parties, and that is good and a strength. Too many scandals have rolled up. The Swedish banks have, to say the least, grossly mismanagement of their work. Of course, their aim is to earn as much money as possible in as short a time as possible. These have been superior control systems and risk analyses, and that is why we have seen all these revelations. The banks are responsible for their customer knowledge and have failed on all counts. The lack of red flags is probably one of the signals. Unfortunately, the Financial Supervisory Authority has also failed in its control of the banks. Banks should have control systems precisely to ensure their customer knowledge – otherwise it would not have looked like it did. Finansinspektionen has been criticised for its naivety, i.e. it believes that Swedish banks are better than other banks regarding money laundering, but it has also received criticism for its lack of cooperation with other countries' authorities. Similarly, the forms of intervention against the banks have been called into question, just as Sofia Westergren did here before. The large flow of people between Finansinspektionen and the banks is also a problem. There has also been an internal audit report from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, and it is a good thing that you control yourself. It is about shortcomings in the work of money laundering. I believe that there were four out of six points on which criticism was made. We in the Left Party are pleased that, together with the Christian Democrats, we have obtained an investigation and that a united committee has supported this investigation. Today, we also learned who the investigator will be, and the directives look good. There is a need to look at the penalties used and the structure of the work. That county boards should be responsible for supervision in all sectors other than finance is a bit shaky, I say. There are tens of thousands of actors to be monitored with very little resources. We cannot conjure the county boards, so I believe that we need to ensure common, uniform work to coordinate competence and to be able to work both proactively and more forcefully. The directives came in November and today, as I said, we were told about the investigator. The investigation is very important, both for trust in the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and for trust in the banks, which one must say is completely undermined after what has happened. But of course they are also important to prevent the gang crime and the killings that are going on. It is the economy behind it that is the key to crime, and it must prevent the money from being used and getting into the system. It's pretty basic. The report states that what suspected money laundering offences are or are not detected is largely determined by the control resources and direction of different authorities and operators. Brå also writes that the rapid technological development of digital payment solutions means, among other things, that money can be moved quickly between different accounts. Therefore, effective and well-developed control activities are needed to detect suspected money laundering at an early stage. I myself usually compare the work against money laundering with the work against doping in sports: As soon as someone has figured out what they are doing to cheat, they change the way they cheat. This is also true of money laundering: when banks come up with one, or when Finansinspektionen comes up with something, they come up with a new system to circumvent it. In the budget that we are now discussing, the Left Party – and also the Christian Democrats – has allocated 20 million extra to Finansinspektionen in order to strengthen control of money laundering and improve the conditions for this work, so that Finansinspektionen can employ more and so that it can tighten up its work and its cooperation internationally. Mr President, I would like to As our budget is a whole and as it has fallen in the framework decision, we have a special opinion here and we are abstaining from voting. However, it can be said that with the Left Party budget, equality would have increased, poverty would have been combated, security increased and welfare and the green transition would have been greatly increased, because we do not give priority to tax cuts for wealthy men in Danderyd. I wish the President a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year, and I wish the President's Office and the Finance Committee the same. Merry Christmas to you!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-21	Mr President, I would like to The banks are very important in the financial bloodstream and central to the financial stability of a society. This task makes them important institutions which are protected by the public in various ways. Otherwise, millions of customers could see their money lost. There would also be a great risk of more banks being involved in the collapse of the individual bank, which could at worst lead to a full-scale financial crisis. Banks enjoy a special position with which to assume a particular responsibility. Therefore, there must also be special rules that banks must comply with and guarantees issued by the state that contribute to stability. It is therefore important that banks act in such a way as to maintain confidence in them. It is important for society as a whole, because the financial system is based on trust. We cannot accept that this confidence is being put at risk, whether speed blindness, greed or recklessness is behind it. It has serious consequences for society as a whole. Basically, it is a matter of following good ethics as well as laws and rules and of citizens having to feel confident about what they do at the bank after three o'clock. At the moment, this confidence does not fully exist. Recurrent money laundering scandals have damaged confidence in the financial system. It is now very important that authorities such as Finansinspektionen can exercise effective supervision, with sanctions proportionate to the potential harm banks can do by facilitating or not acting against suspected money laundering. I went out this spring with demands for a proper review of how the agency has functioned and how it should be re-made in order to become stronger, have the right skills, complete its mission and raise ambitions. The Authority should become larger and stronger. Today, it is not able to fully maintain all its tasks with full force, without the focus shifting between years. Ulla Andersson from the Left Party had similar ideas. Together, we produced a proposal for a committee initiative, which has now resulted in an investigation that will examine the inspection widely and look at sanctions, staff supply, the authorities' feedback to the banks' supervision and, not least, issues of confidentiality between banks in order not to be able to shop around with their attempts at money laundering. This is excellent and much-needed. In a report 2017, the IMF pointed out that Finansinspektionen is an overly thinly manned authority. The Office's internal audit and the Swedish National Audit Office have pointed in the same direction. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority needs to secure expertise and avoid situations like the one two years ago, when employees in the money laundering department lost corresponding to 85 per cent of staff turnover. It is not possible to accept a situation where the talk in town will be that skilled employees at Finansinspektionen can quickly be recruited to the bank side. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority should not be able to be bought up in this way. We now need to build a stronger financial inspection, and basically it is the banks that will pay for it. The supervisory fees paid by banks should be increased to finance a major inspection. This is very reasonable, as a strong inspection strengthens the confidence on which banks depend. I am convinced that the investigation that is now to follow will propose an extension of both suit and authority. But we Christian Democrats already want to strengthen Finansinspektionen, and if our financial perspectives had been approved, Finansinspektionen would have received another SEK 20 million next year. This is not the case, and I am sorry. The additional contribution would have been needed to strengthen staffing and supervision already now and to have a sustained focus on money laundering issues so that the fight against money laundering can also take place more strongly in international cooperation, as money laundering knows no land borders. Mr President, I would like to Banks are central to the financial bloodstream. Confidence is fundamental; citizens must feel secure and not think about what they do at the bank after three o'clock. Stronger financial market authorities are important to this confidence.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-37	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by taking the opportunity – so that I don't forget – to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I am addressing this to the Members and to those at home who are listening to us, but perhaps above all to the President, the President's Office and – last but not least – our committee office, which is dealing with us and which is still doing its job well. Merry Christmas after this day, and make sure to have a nice leave! The object of today's meeting is Category 2 Economics and Finance Management. The expenditure area covers financial market policy and state administration policy and includes a number of operational issues relating to state activities. It is all about increased financial stability, better consumer protection in the financial market and better accessibility to public services. I would already like to support the committee's proposal and reject the motions that have existed and exist. Mr President, I would like to We have restored order in public finances and paid off the deficit that was handed over to us when we took over in 2014. In the good years we have now built up a welfare reserve by paying off on the public debt, and the sovereign debt ratio is the lowest since 1977. We have equipped the Swedish economy with muscles to face a possible slowdown in the business cycle. At the same time, risks remain. The state is equipped for the future. Today we are moving towards an increasingly digitised payment system. The development towards an increasingly cash-free society carries with it many benefits but also many risks in terms of increased vulnerability to disruptions in the payment system. Several factors have been driving, but not least we ourselves and the banks have had a great responsibility for this. In November, the Parliament decided that the banks should assume their responsibilities and provide cash services throughout the country. This is incredibly pleasing. A sustainable financial system does not allow abuse in the form of money laundering and terrorist financing. It is therefore gratifying that several changes have been made in this area in 2019. Among other things, Finansinspektionen has been given the opportunity to conduct ownership and management trials in banks and other financial companies. In the 2018 Budget Bill, Finansinspektionen was strengthened by SEK 80 million to review money laundering supervision. We are now continuing to increase the funding by another 10 million from 2020. There is also an additional 12 million on county boards and their anti-money laundering work. Mr President, I would like to Increasing the state presence and service throughout the country is a prerequisite for the strong society. Basically, it is about trust in society and public Sweden. Our policy is to ensure that you can live and work throughout the country. This is to be improved. The Government's proposal for an increase of SEK 54 million by 2020 to the State Service Centre is therefore extremely welcome. This will help to ensure that opportunities for living and working throughout the country are indeed improved. The transition to a sustainable society is a prerequisite for ensuring good economic development, future prosperity and good welfare. It is good that the Government intends to return to the Riksdag in 2020 with a comprehensive focus on this work and how to follow Agenda 2030. Since I don't get a line here from the Moderates, I just want to respond quickly to their bet of 10 million. I don't really know where that money is. I've been trying to find them in the budget. However, it is a bit difficult to find them, because their own exercise actually shows that they are cutting by 4.8 million. But I have come to the conclusion that, as well as the Moderates are investing 10 million, I, as a member of the Committee on Finance, could say that I am investing 100 million. Then you think: How has Adnan been able to bet 100 million? Well, when I am standing outside this Chamber, I am removing 100 million from the nearly 700 million that the Financial Supervisory Authority receives, and once I come in here, I will put them back and say that, in addition to the government's major efforts, I have invested another 100 million. But what I'm not talking about is I'm keeping $5 million in my own pocket. The moderates' own motion shows that they actually cut by 4.8 million on the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, and that is not good.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-47	Mr President, I would like to The financial market is a key player in the green changeover. Massive investment in new, innovative and clean technologies is needed to achieve climate and environmental objectives. For us to live up to the Paris Agreement, the financial flows must be changed from fossil to sustainable. This government has high ambitions to bring financial markets into the green transition. We have tightened the sustainability requirements of the AP funds, set sustainability requirements for the funds that will be included in the new fund square for premium pension and have legislated for fund managers to inform about their sustainability efforts. Since 2018, climate and sustainability risks have been included in Finansinspektionen's supervisory work. Finansinspektionen has taken on an international leadership role and is leading a global sustainability network for supervisory authorities. The Riksbank has decided that sustainability should be taken into account in investments. Last month, therefore, they chose to sell their holdings of bonds issued by provinces and states with a lack of climate responsibility. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that it is now beginning to move on the financial market and that the government has achieved a great deal with its work. There is a strong demand for sustainable investment. The Swedes want to be part of the green transition. The market for sustainable funds has literally exploded. The amount of green covered bonds increases exponentially. This is an extremely encouraging development. However, we must continue our efforts to redirect the financial flows and get the money to work for the green transition, not towards it. Therefore, in 2020, the Swedish National Debt Office will conduct a green government bond issue. The demand for green bonds is enormous, and the fact that government green bonds are now being issued will help strengthen the market for green bonds. Mr President, I would like to Last but not least, I would also like to mention the work against money laundering. The government has increased its ambitions in the fight against money laundering and in preventing the financing of terrorism. It is essential that we do not allow ruthless criminals to use the financial system to wash their dirty money clean. Finansinspektionen has scaled up its supervisory work in this area and will continue to do so in the future. Therefore, the government is now sending money so that they can continue to develop the work against money laundering. The work of the authorities will also be followed up in a special investigation. We will certainly have reason to come back to that in future debates. Mr President, I would like to Now is the time to call for approval of the committee's proposal and, not least, to wish my colleagues in the committee, the committee secretariat, the President and the President's Bureau a really good Christmas and a happy new year.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-54	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish social contract is threatened by widespread insecurity and lack of well-being, and the Swedish people feel that they do not get currency for their tax money. The Moderates' budget therefore prioritises what is most important for Sweden: the municipalities and the welfare. The Moderates provide municipalities with the most of all parties. Larmen from the Swedish local and regional sector is coming in a strong stream, despite many years of boom and good tax revenue. The causes are several: demographic changes with a higher proportion of older people and children, more children and young people in need of special measures and not least significantly increased costs for the reception of new arrivals. In addition, a government that does not fully manage the state's commitments, but takes over the responsibility of municipalities, for example in terms of security, migration, employment services and infrastructure. In addition, the state's own authorities, such as the county administrative boards and the Finnish Transport Agency, often oppose municipalities in matters such as detailed plans, construction and beach protection. Municipalities are increasingly finding that they are receiving more tasks and demands and, at the same time, less and less support from the state. In fact, while municipalities and regions are being forced into constant tax increases, the state's economy is becoming stronger. And while the debt of the local government sector is increasing, the state is paying off on the public debt. The strengthening of the state economy is, of course, positive, but a great deal unfortunately seems to be happening at the expense of the local government sector. Moreover, developments have gone in the wrong direction. During the year of the Alliance, according to the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting, or regions as it stands today, there was a balance between the municipalities' income and costs – this despite the financial crisis and recession. The Alliance's extensive support to municipalities during the crisis years meant a lot. But since the turn of the government in 2014, things look different. Now the imbalances are increasing year after year, and more and more municipalities are facing economic problems, despite boom and good tax revenues. The new cost compensation helps some municipalities to obtain something more resources, but at the same time means that other municipalities get significantly less. There are hardly any basic problems to be solved simply by shifting costs between municipalities. The Moderates welcome the fact that some municipalities receive increased resources thanks to the new equalisation system but would at the same time like to see a change so that other municipalities do not have reduced resources. Then much more money is needed in the system. With our moderate policy, the municipalities benefiting from the change had improved as much, while no municipalities had experienced any deterioration. Unfortunately, the January Contracting Parties' budget focuses on quite different things than the municipalities and welfare. The Social Democrats talk a lot about the need for more money for the municipalities, but their policies have other priorities. In the so-called JÖK budget, the local government sector was simply allowed to stand back. We Moderates do the opposite and add the local government sector 50% more in new money than the government does in the budget for 2020. In addition, we are converting a significant part of the targeted state grants into general grants, which increases the local authority's room for manoeuvre. At the same time, we are thus strengthening other parts of our society and securing the state's commitments so that we can relieve municipalities of costs for things that are not really a municipal responsibility. Mr President, I would like to The basis of moderate policy is to give priority. We streamline and close down government agencies. We are adjusting aid downwards towards the UN's recommended objectives. We say no to pointless building subsidies, inefficient climate policy, extra services, holidays, family week and electric bicycle premiums. We are tightening up migration and integration policies, introducing premium ceilings, qualification for new arrivals in benefit systems and imposing conditions on supply support. We also abolish interest deductions for SMS loans and credit card credits. All of this gives us scope to invest much more in welfare, the municipalities, the police and the judiciary, to reduce taxes on all employees and pensioners, to reduce fuel taxes by SEK 1 per litre and at the same time to have more surpluses in state finances than the government and support parties. With our moderate policy, there will be more money for welfare and lower taxes. With the policies of the Social Democrats and the cooperation parties, municipalities and county councils are allowed to stand back while taxes are raised for many. Mr President, I would like to Last week I had an interpellation debate with Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko. I concluded by inviting her to today's debate with the Committee on Finance, because I think it is valuable for responsible ministers to take part in the budget debates, especially when it comes to the financing of the very core of welfare. Unfortunately, the Minister for Civil Affairs seems to have more important things to do today than to debate in our Parliament. In 2018, Lena Micko was Chairman of SKL, Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. In an interview in Svenska Dagbladet in April 2018, she and the management of SKL concluded that the targeted state grants were a growing problem. In the article, Sweden's citizens and the Swedish welfare cannot afford to continue with inefficient efforts in the form of targeted state grants. It was suggested that general state subsidies should be the general rule. Between 2012 and 2018, the targeted state grants increased by 60 per cent, while the general ones decreased, even though the municipalities requested the opposite. This is something that we Moderates have taken on board in our budget exercise, where, in addition to adding more money, we are also redistributing targeted state subsidies to general ones. But the government, with Lena Micko as responsible minister, not only continues with a large proportion of targeted state grants but increases in this year's budget share further. Mr President, I would like to The basic responsibility for local government finances lies, of course, with local government policy. That is where municipal priorities are set. They are certainly not always optimal. At the same time, it is not easy to plan the finances of municipalities when the conditions are constantly changed. For example, the introduction of the new cost equalisation system has knocked away a number of municipal budgets in the autumn. At the same time, more and more municipalities are wrestling with how to finance commitments that are not really municipal but that the state is therefore rolling over into the municipalities. I mentioned earlier the costs of security, migration, employment services and infrastructure, but there are more examples. All of this competes for resources with care for the elderly, home care and school. Mr President, I would like to I note that there are four things required by the state in order for municipalities to have a reasonable long-term chance of managing their finances. Firstly, the state must take responsibility for its tasks. These range from asylum reception to employment services, security issues and infrastructure. There is also a need to take a strong stance against authorities countering the development of municipalities. Unfortunately, today's government does not accept this responsibility, but is rolling over more and more costs on the municipalities. The Moderates have another policy in which we want to re-establish the state's responsibility for fundamental state responsibilities and instead allow the municipalities to devote themselves to theirs. Secondly, state subsidies to municipalities need to be increased. Unfortunately, the government's priorities are different. The Moderates invest the most new money of all parties in municipalities, 50 per cent more than the government base. Thirdly, the targeted state subsidies need to be made more general. In the budget of the oderers, we are making efforts to turn this around and turn large parts of the state subsidies in detail into more general ones. Instead, the governance base increases further the level of detail management. Fourthly, it is absolutely crucial for municipalities that all parts of our country have a strong business and that more people get to work in real jobs. A strong industrial policy, reasonable taxes on entrepreneurship, labour and transport, good supply of electricity, secure welfare, visible and accessible police and a strong judiciary are important elements. Today's government has unfortunately failed on almost all these points. Mr President, I would like to I can only say that the Swedish local government sector needs more moderate policies in all areas. We cannot afford the lopsided priorities of the JÖK budget, where everything else is clearly more important than the welfare of the Swedish people, which is largely delivered by the Swedish municipalities and regions. We Moderates simply prioritise differently. Finally, since the majority of Parliament in the first stage of the budgetary process has given policy a different direction from that which we Moderates wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on appropriations in the various areas of expenditure. The Moderates' budgetary options should be seen as a whole. We are therefore instead presenting a specific opinion on our policy in Category 25. As I said, the Moderates invest most of all parties in the local government sector, as much as 16.2 billion more than the government.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-78	Mr President, I would like to Today, therefore, we are debating Category 25 General grants to municipalities, which unfortunately has sailed up as one of the most important areas of the state budget. The effort in Swedish administration is and has been municipal self-determination and self-management. The state's ambition is to give municipalities a level playing field to provide good welfare for citizens, which in the perfect worlds could be done at a relatively low cost. But that is not the case. It is one thing that municipalities have different structural and geographical conditions, which the state needs to compensate for. Therein lies nothing controversial. But from time to time, local self-determination is subject to exceptions. An obvious example of this was the pressure exerted by many municipalities by the state to receive newly arrived migrants from Afghanistan and Middle East hotspots in 2014 and onwards. When the financial responsibility of the Finnish Immigration Service, i.e. the state, for this was passed on to the municipalities, a completely new situation arose in many municipalities. It is this dynamic that we Swedish democrats are reacting to when, in our draft state budget, we strengthen support for the municipal equalisation system. It is our action in the situation which would not have had to arise but which has now de facto arisen. From political opponents, the narrative has previously been that the Swedish Democrats have weakened the welfare of the municipalities. That's not true. However, this reflection misses the essential question. In a rain of spittoons, sometimes literally, we protested against a senseless migration policy. We feared that what is now happening would happen. Some of you may have seen the news story from Bengtsfors, one of the municipalities where adults with mental disabilities are saved. The programme showed that half of the municipalities in Sweden do the same. Defeated individuals who cannot be referred to the labour market may see their activities closed down. There you have the result of Fredrik Reinfeldt's and Stefan Lövven's politics, which many here in Parliament have been involved in voting for. In 2015, Kramfors was reported to have received most new arrivals per capita in Västernorrland. It was an explicit policy from the government that all municipalities should participate in their projects, and money was directed to the municipalities that received the most. In this way, the finances of municipalities were held on plus, temporarily. In the same year Stefan Löfven declared that Sweden's reception of refugees is the responsibility of Sweden as a whole. Today, a few years after the Prime Minister's statement, Kramfors talks about extensive saving requirements because the state's financial commitment to the migration project is being phased out. This is going on in municipality after municipality. Was this what Stefan Löven meant by refugees being the responsibility of the whole of Sweden? Municipalities are struggling today with savings in elderly care and other municipal core activities as well as increasing borrowing, and this during the peak of a boom. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's municipalities and Regions, SKR, have flagged for this very thing. Every third region and every fourth municipality went in deficit in 2018, during the peak of a boom. According to a report by SKR in October, some twenty municipalities and four regions will probably have to raise the tax next year. One of the problems with tax increases is that they can fight back through lower tax revenues within a couple of years. Then we are in a vicious spiral of falling tax revenues, which probably leads to worsening welfare and municipal service. However critical we Swedish democrats are of the policies of the past and still in force, we need to adapt our policies to the situation here and now, and everything speaks for greater support from the state to the municipal levelling-up system. That is why we have made significant re-priorities in our draft state budget and spend EUR 5 billion more than the government on Category 25. According to the forecast, we are escalating this up to 15 billion to 2022, which is in line with the needs predicted by SKR, which makes the assessment that the state must take greater responsibility for there to be good welfare throughout the country. If we had got our budget through, we would probably not have had to reallocate funds within the municipal equalisation system, that is, we would rather have contributed funds from the state treasury in accordance with our draft state budget. But at the present time, we chose to support a redistribution, essentially in favour of sparsely populated municipalities. Not rarely does this discussion lead us to save on other things, such as new arrivals' start-up costs. Yes, it is no secret that the Swedish Democrats do not believe that a rain of subsidies is the right way into Swedish society for new arrivals, quite the opposite. For us, it is self-evident to first secure the welfare of those who have spent their entire lives working and paying taxes in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to For most of my life I have lived on Lidingö – a municipality with more than 47,000 inhabitants and a single municipal indoor pool, a 25-metre pool that turns 55 next year. For years Lidingö residents have wanted a new pool, but the budget has not allowed this – much depending on the municipal levelling system, where Lidingö next year is obliged to pay in SEK 400 million net. To see then how municipalities in metropolitan regions receive huge contributions year after year in the municipal equalisation system has, mildly said, made me sceptical about the system. However, despite my attitude, I can defend in this House the decision of the Swedish Democrats to support the government's new municipal equalisation system. The reason is that we must all take responsibility for a reckless migration policy which has contributed to the crisis of many municipalities today. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President and all the Members, officials and listeners a truly happy new year and, of course, a Merry Christmas.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-97	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with much of the description of problems in the local government sector. It feels like most parties today share the assessment that the municipalities are in a rather tough position. I am therefore pleased to see that the Swedish Democrats are adding more money. However, it is strange that, when you see the major problems in the local government sector, you think that these 5 billion should be enough to solve the problems. From a moderate point of view, we will add over SEK 16 billion extra next year. Then we have really made clear priorities in order to be able to provide money for municipalities and welfare. Charlotte Quensel says that the Swedish Democrats have made clear priorities in their budget. And yet you're only raising $5 billion for the local government sector. Obviously, you've given other things priority for the rest of the money. Then my question is: what have you prioritised instead of the municipalities? And does Charlotte Quensel believe that these 5 billion will be enough to deal with the difficult situation of municipalities in 2020?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-100	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for the question. We are prioritising the increase in costs and contributions over several years, as the honourable Member certainly noticed. Nor am I sure that the Moderates' priority will remedy the urgent problems that will arise next year. I saw that it's ferie schools and other things you're adding money to. I don't know if we can afford to do that right now.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-102	Mr President, I would like to In that case, it's probably a misconception of Charlotte Quensel. The bulk of the money that we spend in the Moderates' budget is general state subsidies that the municipalities are free to use for what they themselves think is appropriate. So we are taking away a lot of the targeted money, and instead we are letting the municipalities decide for ourselves over the money. If Charlotte Quensel does not believe that our 16.2 billion will solve the problems of municipalities next year, I wonder how she thinks her own 5 billion will do the same.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-104	Mr President, I would like to We have followed the recommendations of the SKR. Then we feel quite confident that it is a good first step. Should we see that that is not enough, we must also re-prioritise.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-105	Mr President, I would like to Christmas is around the corner, and for many it often means a long-awaited vacation in the company of loved ones. At the same time, we can imagine that there are now quite a few longing children out there, even though the greatest yearning right now is probably with the country's economic elite. When Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson presented the government budget, she announced a juicy Christmas present to the country's richest percent. At the turn of the year, the richest percent get their taxes reduced to the point that the missing tax revenue amounts to SEK 6 billion. It is SEK 6 billion that would otherwise have been able to go to the longing children in school, to the sick in health care or to the elderly in care. The Swedish Municipalities and Regions estimate that they need SEK 90 billion more in 2026 to maintain today's quality in welfare. On the other hand, most people who work in health care, in care for the elderly or in preschool know that today's quality is not enough: There is still more to be done. Nevertheless, the January parties choose to give only SEK 5 billion more to the country's municipalities in general state grants. It is therefore less money than they spend on reducing the tax on the richest 3%. In a situation where 61 municipalities plan to raise taxes because the economic situation is so strained, where four out of five municipalities are forced to make cuts and where our health care is hard hit, our home service is understaffed and our schools are faced with saving requirements, choosing to prioritise tax cuts for the richest percentages, reducing employers' contributions for McDonald's and free years is not only irresponsible but also clear proof of the political orientation of the Social Democrats. It has been chosen no longer to pursue a left-wing policy for the majority. Instead, one has become a right-wing party among others, and in certain matters even lie right over the Moderates. Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party are saying no to this massive transfer of financial resources from low and middle income earners to the wealthiest percentage of the country. Instead, in the area by area, we choose to make offensive efforts on welfare, on children, on the elderly and on the country. In our draft budget, we want, among other things, to carry out a comprehensive training effort to address staff shortages, introduce free medicines for the elderly, strengthen health care throughout the country and also increase resources for elderly care by billions. Mr President, I would like to Today, Sweden is the country in the Western world where inequality has increased most in recent decades, both within and between municipalities. And inequality has consequences – for democracy, for cohesion and for the individual. Today, for example, there is a difference in life expectancy of ten years between a man in Munkfors municipality and a man in Danderyd municipality. But it doesn't have to be that way. At one time, Sweden was one of the most equal countries in the world, and we can become one again. Then, however, we need to end the neoliberal policy, which treats Sweden as if it were a start-up and not a nation. Then it takes reforms that do not knock away the bones of ordinary people and only benefit the rich and powerful. This calls for real investment in welfare, and this requires left-wing policy.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-113	Mr President, I would like to With the January parties, the harsh welfare winter worsens. The parties considered themselves to have a total of 25 billion in the budget. But when the expensive and sprawling January agreement was to be paid the last night of negotiations – the initial deduction, the development period, rent-fixed building subsidies, the defense tax, inefficient environmental measures, that is, everything that was forced upon each other – it was the welfare that was left in the cold with the bill. Out of 25 new budget billions, a few hundred million were spent on health care, school and care for the elderly. The so-called welfare efforts of which the government boasts are nothing more than small fig leaves with which the January parties try to cover up the naked budget body. Now we see the result: Every other municipality cuts down on the fragile in individual and family care and people with disabilities. 180 municipalities save on care for the elderly. Instead, the government, which should provide new resources, is even cutting resources to care for the elderly and, in particular, retirement homes. In the first budget this spring it was several hundred million less. In the second budget this autumn, there were further cuts. This means decided and announced savings on elderly care totalling SEK 1.3 billion. This is despite the fact that the government's own finance department has pointed out that tens of thousands of new places are needed in the care of the elderly, where sick elderly people are getting worse while waiting for a retirement home when loneliness is crawling along the walls and when they are told: There is no room for you. The question has to be asked: have the January parties not seen the crisis in municipal Sweden? Was it something they didn't see coming? It doesn't seem any better. For it is not welfare reforms and not wealth resources that are the biggest economic policy reform of the January parties, but a targeted tax relief only to the 5% of the population that has the highest wages. This priority will, of course, have consistency with you. When the government fails to prioritise municipalities and fails to prioritise welfare, the risk of tax increases increases increases increases. I have no objection to lowering the tax or removing the defence tax. However, I have problems with the priority and the tax policy resulting from the lack of priority. When the risk of tax increases increases – we see it now in 61 municipalities – all residents get increased municipal tax. In Ödeshög there are 59 people who pay military tax and who will receive a tax relief. But there are thousands of people who do not and who will have a tax increase of about $600 a month if they are middle earners. In Ydre municipality, 49 people pay military tax. However, there are thousands of people who will receive an increase in municipal tax of SEK 500 at the turn of the year. With the priorities and policies of the Christian Democrats, next year would be different. We propose in our budget, which is still financially stronger than the government, a total of SEK 7 billion more for welfare next year. And we see that the local government crisis is both an economic crisis and a staffing crisis. This is why we are making a special investment of SEK 3.4 billion in care for the elderly, of which SEK 2.6 billion is for staff who are threatened by sick leave and stress. However, municipalities only receive the money if they work actively to improve staff conditions – so that they can also recruit staff for elderly care in the future – if they actively work to reduce shared tours, if they have reasonable management responsibilities, good employee satisfaction and increased participation. We want to invest in more retirement homes – the shortage must be removed – not least shelters with Community opportunities that can counteract the loneliness that is so harmful to health. Mr President, I would like to The moderate and Christian-Democratic budget made a huge contribution to health care. Among other things, new queue billions and standardised healthcare processes were introduced, and large general resources were added to prepare a primary care initiative. To this we are now proposing further reforms in the form of more accessible care places, funds to improve patient law and support for care in rural areas. We want to see a policy for more people in work and for improved skills provision with more training places and a longer working life. We see that many municipalities are on their knees. We now need an active policy and more resources to help the well-being on its feet. Mr President, I would like to I also think we need to see that, when we enter a recession, we will need an active policy to keep people in work and get people to work. In this case, it is important to contribute to the municipalities. It is important that municipalities can maintain good employment, both for their well-being and so that we do not exacerbate a crisis once it comes. In this way, municipalities play a key role in ensuring that people do not end up in long-term unemployment and long-term exclusion. Mr President, I would like to We also see an equalisation system that the government has pushed through very quickly. We think that these are reasonable principles that are laid down, that the compensation for rural areas is increased and that the cost compensation system is updated. But we also see that municipalities now, at a very late stage, are having a deterioration in the conditions for managing their planning in the coming years. This is why we have contributed SEK 2 billion in particular to mitigate the effects of the introduction of this cost equalisation system and to prevent battles from becoming so powerful in our local government sector. We also need broader tax incentives to stimulate work. We need earlier entry into the labour market in order to secure the staffing of municipalities. We need to further strengthen the drive to stay a little longer for those who are experienced nurses, doctors or social security officers in order for us to pass the skills in our local government sector. And the tax incentives that we need to make need to be broad but also targeted at those with the lowest incomes that come from unemployment, who are newly arrived or who have been on sick leave and have undergone rehabilitation and are trying to get back to the labour market. For with more people in work and more hours worked, we can have more opportunities to cope with the finances of municipalities and the resources for welfare in the future. But then we must look with concern at as more and more municipalities raise taxes and saw off the welfare sector on which we are actually sitting. This now requires very strong action. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish a Merry Christmas to the President, to all those in this House, to all those who listen and, of course, to our committee office, which is working very hard to enable us to make good decisions in this House.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-129	Mr President, I would like to The security of good health care, the dignity of care for our elderly, and the education of our children are well at the heart of good welfare. Standing up for welfare is important. This makes Sweden a safe and rich country. Therefore, investment in welfare must also continue in preschools, schools, retirement homes and health centres. Welfare and security are the most important priorities of the Social Democrats. This is precisely what this debate is about – state subsidies to municipalities and regions in order to cope with welfare. Mr President, I would like to Municipalities and regions are the basis for the decentralised welfare model that Sweden has. Local self-government gives a great deal of freedom to design and manage their activities according to local needs. The municipal sector's tax revenue accounts for about two thirds of total revenue, and the state contributes to the financing of municipal activities through general and targeted state grants. So that is what we are debating here today. Total tax revenues and state subsidies are used in the way that municipalities and regions themselves decide. Mr President, I would like to More and more people live longer, and more and more children are born. That's a good thing. This is the result of a long-term welfare policy. At the same time, however, it places high demands on the welfare system. To meet this positive but also challenging development, tens of thousands of new employees will need to be employed in health care, care for the elderly and the school. Together with municipalities and regions, we need to shorten care queues, improve school outcomes and reduce school segregation. We need to get to grips with gang crime with more resources for the police and sharper laws, while fighting the causes of crime with good welfare and prevention. But in order for this to be achieved, people in the welfare world must become more numerous. More have been employed, about 100 000 during the previous term of office. But they need to increase, and they also need to have a better working environment in order for them to thrive and be able to devote themselves to the right things. The relationship between a strong welfare and a strong economy is clear. When society is strong and people feel safe, we also dare to invest – in getting a family, starting our own business, re-training us or changing jobs. To be able to afford the investments in welfare, it requires that we are many who work and pay taxes. It's connected. With this budget, we are continuing our efforts on welfare. In the past, we have secured an increase of 35 billion in the previous parliamentary term, and now 20 billion more are coming under it. But we know that more needs to be done. The needs of welfare are great. Some municipalities and regions have an extra strained location. The proportion of municipalities reporting negative results was higher among the smallest municipalities in terms of population. Many of those who work in welfare are running fast and do not always have time for the care needed. We see the needs. In the coming years, therefore, any desire for investment and expenditure increases need to be weighed against more resources for welfare and increased security throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to Precisely because the conditions are so different in the country, the Riksdag decided the other week on a new proposal for cost compensation. This will come into force in the New Year, which means that greater account will be taken of the social development that has taken place in recent years, with an increasing number of older people in the population and an increase in urbanisation. Overall, the levelling-up will be strengthened and more attention will be paid to sparsely populated areas and socio-economic factors. The redistribution is a step towards ensuring equal welfare throughout our elongated country. Sweden does not benefit from the fact that we drift apart, but from the fact that we stick together. Mr President, I would like to From municipalities and regions there are criticisms that there are too many targeted state subsidies. I can understand that. I know from my own experience as municipal councillor in Linköping municipality that we sometimes received targeted state grants that tied us to an initiative that might not be the best for our municipality or that was most needed at the time. A redistribution from targeted to more general state subsidies should take place, and we have begun this work. Mr President, I would like to If you listen to the right-wing conservatives in this House today, you might think that it is only more money for welfare that their budgets would give. They give the municipalities with one hand but take even more back with the other. These include the proposal for a backlog in health insurance and the continuation of substantial reductions in the number of unemployed. This is what we have called a poison cocktail for municipalities' finances because it means increased costs for social benefits and labour market measures. It will be particularly noticeable for many already vulnerable municipalities. In practice, the proposal would mean a substantial increase in the cost of many municipalities by shifting the state's responsibility for new arrivals and the unemployed, as well as for sick leave on them. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats will always put welfare first. Our top priority is to strengthen welfare and increase security throughout Sweden. The aim is to create good and equal conditions for municipalities and regions in order to be able to cope with today's and tomorrow's challenges and to offer a well-being of good quality. We have a common job to do, the state, the regions and the municipalities together. It is vital for our elderly to have good care and for our children to grow up safely. That is why investment in welfare must continue. That's what we want to continue with. This is how we build a stronger Sweden. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions and would like to end by wishing everyone a Merry Christmas.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-144	Mr President, I would like to Welfare and security are the most important priorities of the Social Democrats," said Eva Lindh. Suck on it: Welfare and security are the most important priorities of the Social Democrats. Why, then, is everything else more important for the Social Democrats in the budget than just school, care for the elderly, home care and support for disabled people? After all, you are spending all your money, the entire scope for reform that you think is in the budget, on other things than the very things that Eva Lindh points out in the debate as the most important priority of the Social Democrats. No one can take such a message at all; it is completely incomprehensible. It is equally incomprehensible when Eva Lindh is standing in the speaker's chair talking about her own experience as municipal councillor and how difficult it was with the targeted state grants. I touched on this in my speech earlier, and I fully share Eva Lindhs's assessment. This is exactly the signal I get from my councillors around the country. But why are the Social Democrats increasing the proportion of targeted state subsidies in this budget? This is not at all what Eva Lindh says – that they are taking the first step towards reducing the proportion of targeted state subsidies. You're increasing the proportion. It is a higher proportion of targeted state subsidies in this budget than in the previous one. What Eva Lindh says is wrong. Again, the Moderates want to add 16.2 billion more than the government to the municipalities. What is it Eva Lindh believes that the municipalities do not need from the money we provide, as the government is thus spending 16 billion less on the municipalities? Do you not think that the municipalities need these 16 billion? What do you think is unnecessary from what we add?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-150	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we think that welfare is incredibly important. We're betting on welfare. We've been doing it for years. When the Moderate Party did not propose to invest in welfare, we did. We did it for many years, and that meant 35 billion in spending on welfare. We are continuing this effort. We have now promised that we will contribute EUR 20 billion in the next parliamentary term. We are making investments because we see that it is needed. We know that it is necessary, and we will continue to give priority to the welfare of every possible opportunity when we need to set budget lines against each other. We will continue to do so. I can be glad that the Moderates are also investing in the welfare of their budget. I think it is good if we agree that it is necessary. Neither Jan Ericson nor anyone else needs to worry; we know that the money is needed. We believe that this is the most important priority, and we will continue to support it.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-153	Mr President, I would like to I am not at all worried that Eva Lindh, as an old councillor, would not see that the money that the Moderates provide is needed. But you're not actually adding this money. Although Eva Lindh says that the money is needed and that she is aware of it, it is not in your budget. Your budget is empty. You've spent the money on just about everything except the municipalities. As Jakob Forssmed said, there are a few hundred million, compared to the 16 billion of Moderates next year. You do not take the needs of the municipalities seriously, and you do not take welfare seriously. Eva Lindh boasts that EUR 20 billion will be added during this term of office. The Moderates will contribute SEK 16 billion as early as next year, a single year – 2020. We are the ones who take welfare seriously. During the alliance years, there was a balance between income and costs in the municipalities. Now it's going the wrong way. I think it's serious.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-156	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, the Moderates say that they are investing in welfare, but at the same time they are drawing down a lot of money that goes to the municipalities. This means that the municipalities that are already vulnerable will find it very difficult to deal with, for example, increased costs of subsistence support for vulnerable people, which will be printed out. Cancer sufferers may have to go and seek support when they no longer have food on the table. That is what this means. They say that you invest in the municipalities, but with the other hand you take money. We are not prepared to do that. What is said to be invested will not happen, but it will be already vulnerable municipalities that will be less able to cope with welfare.
i-KVXPLvYdpBhAoVdZGLKwU4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eva Lindh, for your speech. It is quite easy to agree with much of what the speaker said in the speaker's seat. It was a good analysis, a good picture of the situation and a good picture of the needs of the welfare community. The problem is that the government's budget has very little to do with the speech. After all, the statement is not reflected in the budget that is now being presented. It does not add resources to the well-being or the new billions that the government believes it has at its disposal, EUR 25 billion. That's a few hundred to the welfare. The question is: if Eva Lindh, the Social Democrats and the government are now doing this analysis, how can the budget differ so dramatically from what is being said here in the speaker's chair?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-160	Mr President, I would like to In the 2018 elections, the Social Democrats received 28 per cent. It is more than some other parties, but it is not a majority. If we had the choice, we would have invested more in welfare. We will give priority to this throughout the term of office. We will, because we know it is necessary. I agree with the analysis of my own party. I am proud to support the Social Democrats and the priorities that are being set, but sometimes it is about giving and taking. That's why we're behind it. Not only me but also our Finance Minister, Magdalena Andersson, says and has said that important priorities need to be made and that more efforts will probably need to be made during this parliamentary term. However, it is clear that we are investing in welfare. We have done this, and we will do it. It is in the budget, but in all likelihood we need to do much more than what is in the draft budget today.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-162	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like Eva Lindh thinks it's someone else's fault and someone else is forcing them to make these priorities. But no one is forcing the Social Democrats to have government power. Eva Lindh said in her speech that welfare and security are the main priorities. Is the social democratic influence a few hundred million out of 25 billion? Who else is in charge? It is the Social Democrats who sit at the government and have the Ministry of Finance. You still have some influence over the budget, don't you, Eva Lindh? It is one thing to say that the efforts should be made later in the parliamentary term, but cuts of 310 million were made last spring in the care of the elderly and further cuts last autumn. Reductions in care for the elderly with the situation we have out in Kommunsverige, where 180 municipalities save on care for the elderly – how can that be?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-165	Mr President, I would like to It's always about what you put in words. We're betting on welfare. Nevertheless, this is clear. Then you can tell if more is needed or not. We are making a great effort on welfare in this budget too. What Jakob Forssmed is talking about redistributing. We need to reallocate targeted state subsidies to general ones. We see that there needs to be more investment in care for the elderly, and we give more money. It is to be able to invest more in elderly care, school and health care. This needs to be done, and it is included in our budget, including the budget that we are deciding on today.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-167	Mr President, I would like to Merry Christmas! I'll start there, or I'll forget it. But now it was said, and that goes for the rest too. Before I get into the Center's priorities in the future in this crucial area – municipal finance – I thought I'd take some basic entrances. For me, it is important to establish that two thirds of the local government finances come from income taxes. This means that we are completely dependent on how entrepreneurship and jobs develop. That's the key to municipal finances. It is important to understand that the last third comes from state subsidies and contributions but that two thirds comes from income taxes. In practice, this means that structural reforms to create more jobs and entrepreneurship in the country are the most crucial for the finances of municipalities in the future. Although state subsidies have increased and will increase, they alone will not be enough to cope with this. The Center Party believes that we should have greater municipal self-government. It is important to establish something. With the misery description that exists in Sweden today, you might think that everything is worse, but if you compare the trend from 1980 to 2016, you can see that the demographic costs have increased by 20 percent. So we have a larger population with more older and younger people, which has led to a 20% increase in demographic costs. However, resources have increased by 70%, so we have contributed a lot and expanded welfare since 1980. It is perhaps not this picture of reality that is being described in society right now. Nevertheless, the challenges ahead are huge, and many have described this today. Every 10 municipalities raise taxes, and four regions are about to raise taxes in the coming years. We know that demographic pressure is high. Not least, there will be many older people over 80 years – there has been a 50-percent increase in just a few years. In my own municipality of residence Gotland even reduces the number of people of working age, but we have more young people and more older people. It's gonna be tough. We know that the change in demographics is long-term. It can be seen that baby boom children, born in the early 1990s, will be in work by the end of the 2030s, and then the number of 40-talists will also decrease. This means that we will have the change we are already seeing for two decades. It is not a temporary decline or change we see, but something we have to plan and take altitude for for a long time. We know, of course, that the rate of increase in the tax base will slow down in the slowdown we have. This means that wages and salaries are falling and tax revenues are falling, or at least are not increasing at the same good pace as before. One problem that is at least as big as the economy, as the municipalities themselves describe it, is the lack of skills. You should be able to get skills around the country. This shortage is also much greater in rural and sparsely populated municipalities with many older people. One fact that often strikes me, which has been the local councillor before, is that there is some sort of paradox: the better we get it, the higher the expectations of the population. You kind of take for granted that the public should be able to afford everything. I who have my second life in Ukraine and usually go there a few times a year can say that it is a good way to restore expectations to see how other people have it. I hope that more people can afford to go to Ukraine in order to have more sound expectations of what we can fund publicly. SKR says that we have great needs in the future, and it is clear that what is in the budget does not cover all of this need. The Center Party has been the driving force in trying to raise even more money in future budgets for government grants to municipalities and county councils. We have signaled this several times, and so do I. Sending in more money will therefore be one of our priority actions forward, because it will be necessary. What, then, should we think is the task of the state? The municipalities have their parts, but what should the state prioritise when it comes to these issues? What are we going to do? You could say that the Center Party sees five focus areas here. The first area is state subsidies. We need to reduce the detail of the state subsidies we have and move from targeted state subsidies to general state subsidies. As Jan Ericson mentioned earlier, general state grants have decreased by 2.2 per cent between 2012 and 2018, while targeted state grants have increased by 67 per cent. So all the increases have taken place in the targeted state subsidies, and they are not. It's not rational for any municipalities. The second area is regulatory simplification. We have been talking for a long time about regulatory simplifications for businesses, but now it is time to talk about regulatory simplifications for municipalities and regions. Let me give you two examples. At the moment, there is a state grant to develop the cultural school, but in the reality that prevails in most municipalities it is about being able to afford to preserve the cultural school. This means that the state grant does not work, because it is only for development. It's not working. The second example concerns the working time of social security officers. When you measure it, you see that today they have so much regulation to relate to that they spend only 13% of their time working with users. 13 percent! They can't have that. We therefore need regulatory simplification also for the local and regional sectors. The third area is the principle of financing. Indeed, we in the state must respect the principle of financing and finance our reforms. If I say LSS, I think everyone understands what I mean. The fourth area is the cooperation agreement. We need to conclude a long-term cooperation agreement with the local government sector and support it so that there is a clear planning framework ahead. The municipalities should know what applies, and there should also be less detailed control in the agreements that actually exist. Today they are extremely detailed, which is devastating. The fifth area for which I and the Center Party believe that the state should give priority is digitalisation, for which the state must take the main responsibility. National standards need to be created, and infrastructure needs to be secured throughout the country. It's the national mission. The journey that we are facing in the next two decades has taken place in the past. We did about the same thing in the 1990s, when costs remained unchanged despite a rather rapidly increasing population. We know that it will be possible to do so one more time, and that is why I am still reasonably in favour of the development that we are looking at. With that, I wish you a Merry Christmas!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-187	Mr President, I would like to The long-term investigation came up the other day with a very interesting and important report that is worth highlighting when we talk about the conditions and finances of the municipal sector. The report is about inequality and reminds us of the important and fundamental fact that we have welfare services in Sweden. One of the stated objectives of this is to smooth out life chances. Regardless of where you live and which family you come from, you should have the opportunity to reach your full potential, and the welfare services – what is done by municipalities and regions around Sweden – are actually the main method we use to create these equalised life chances. The fact that welfare services today are characterised by high productivity is also one of the reasons why we can maintain good economic growth and development in Sweden. Welfare services work in a level playing field, but as we have other trends in the Swedish economy – trends that increase differences and increase inequality – the pressure on welfare services' ability to act as a levelling-off. In addition, there is the well-known pressure from the changing demographics, that is, we get more younger and older and fewer in working age. This is important to keep in mind as we look ahead. Another aspect that emerged in the presentation of the Long-Term Review report was the challenge that municipalities and regions already have and will have in the future in terms of finding the right skills. This will be an enormous challenge, not least in the more sparsely populated parts of Sweden. This is due to urbanisation but also to certain other elements of economic development. This leads to an important conclusion, which also emerged at the seminar, namely that one of the most important prerequisites for us to have a functioning welfare and for municipalities and county councils to be able to deliver welfare services in the future is that we have an immigration to Sweden. Without immigration, we will not make it. There will be a need for staff – hands – in school and care across the country, and those hands will have to come from other parts of the world. There is no other way to solve this. In view of the political debate we have in Sweden, I think it is extremely important to emphasise this. Of course, municipalities will also need economic and financial conditions to recruit and maintain welfare services. It is important that the state takes responsibility for ensuring this, and in the January agreement we have made it very clear that the support should be long-term and steady. It is also noted in the budget that, in addition to the announced strengthening of local government finances, additional measures may be needed, which I think we will have reason to come back to. It is important that the state does its job to maintain general welfare services and, for example, does not shift the cost from the health insurance system to the municipalities. I share the concerns expressed by many about the idea of re-establishing the precipice; that would be a disaster for the local economy. In order for municipalities to continue to deliver welfare services that continue to have a smoothing effect and counteract the tendency to increase economic disparities that exist throughout the Western world, it is therefore necessary both to recruit and to finance the activities. This requires clear state support but also other prerequisites, such as broad work on skills provision. These two challenges are before us, and the budget we are discussing today is an important step. However, we recognise that we will need to do more in the future. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-196	Mr President, I would like to I say about the same thing as I said in my last speech: since the majority of Parliament in the first stage of the budgetary process has given a different direction to budgetary policy than the one we Moderates want, we are abstaining from taking a position on this matter as well. Our overall budget reservations are in FiU1. I would like to take this opportunity to develop the moderate view of the EU levy in a slightly longer perspective. The discussion on the Swedish EU levy is complex, and concerns about a steeply rising fee in the future are due to several things. Strong voices in the EU are pushing for a substantial increase in the EU budget, although a large and important EU country is likely to leave the Union soon. We could have expected the opposite, that the budget would be reduced accordingly. At the same time, there is also pressure to reduce or completely eliminate the discounts that Sweden and some other countries have negotiated in the past. The Swedish EU contribution in the EU's future long-term budget has been discussed many times in both the Finance Committee and the EU Board. I have been involved in most of these deliberations. On several occasions I have asked for greater clarity from Swedish ministers and from the Prime Minister. On the contrary, however, we have seen an increasingly worrying picture. Representatives of the government, including the Prime Minister himself, have at times sounded a little well-assigned and thus signalled weakness to those EU countries that are pushing for a larger budget. It has been more or less clearly signalled that Sweden is unlikely to be able to negotiate a solution that is favourable to Sweden, without, in practice, having to prepare for a massive increase in the fee. From a moderate point of view, this is an unfortunate way of negotiating. One cannot back down into a negotiation but must be clear with one's line. Another objection to the government's line is that it is often said that the most important way of keeping the Swedish EU levy down is to ensure that the EU budget does not grow too much. That's partly true. But even if the EU budget were to shrink, the Swedish EU levy could of course increase dramatically if the government failed to defend the Swedish rebates. Sweden's negotiators must push both for a restrictive EU budget overall and for Sweden's share of EU contributions not to be increased. Mr President, I would like to On 28 November, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party in the Finance Committee presented a joint committee initiative concerning the Swedish EU levy. It was an initiative that was also supported by the Swedish Democrats. After discussions in committee, we were finally able to agree on a sharper wording than before. It is also the government's declared line today. The clear line is that the Swedish fee should be kept down and that the government should try to ensure that Sweden's total fee, as a proportion of the BNI, does not exceed the current rate. On 11 December at the EU Council, Prime Minister Löfven stated that he was grateful for the negotiations on reinforced proposals that resulted from the initiative. He said that it strengthened the Swedish negotiating position to have a united parliament behind them. I can only say that this is a very positive result of our committee initiative. That was exactly the purpose. Now all eight parliamentary parties stand behind a balanced Swedish line in the further negotiations. Of course, on the moderate side, we will carefully monitor that the government lives up to what we have now agreed. But I am confident that the government negotiator will do its absolute best to achieve our common goal. The EU levy for next year is what it is. There's not much we can influence there. But we can be glad that today we have a united parliament looking forward and trying to limit the Swedish EU contribution for the coming years.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-204	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the fee to the European Union. It is an area of expenditure that it is difficult to do anything constructively in budgetary terms, because at this stage we have very little opportunity to influence the amount of the levy. This task is now the responsibility of the Swedish Government, which has been in the Committee on Finance seeking a mandate for the negotiations on the EU's long-term budget. In committee, M, KD and V took a laudable initiative and demanded that the government make it clear to other EU countries that there is no parliamentary support to increase the Swedish EU contribution, as a percentage of GDP. In practice, this would mean that the government would be prepared to use the Swedish veto. The Swedish Democrats have consistently opposed increased contributions to the EU in various contexts. We therefore stood ready and had expressed our support for the initiative in committee. I would also have liked the line to have gone out on this issue. Nevertheless, we have sent a clear message to the government that the Swedish fee should be kept down. I wish the government a genuine success with that in the negotiations. The report states that there are now significant risks to a different trend in expenditure from that foreseen in the forecast. What does that mean for Swedish people? I'll tell you. Sweden currently has a discount on the EU fee. But with the UK's planned exit, it risks disappearing, and Sweden risks increasing its annual fee. Why is it problematic? I can give you 42 billion reasons. This is the fee that Sweden pays annually for membership. I can give you another 15 billion reasons. This is the increase in charges that the EU is threatening Sweden with. The total amount is SEK 57 billion. We spend more on the EU levy than on the entire judiciary. It is almost as much as we spend on the entire Swedish defence. It's all about fantasy. It is money that would have been a welcome addition for everyone who is working daily in Swedish municipal welfare. The responsibility rests heavily on the government to ensure that the extra 15 billion will never become a reality. I think that this leads to an interesting discussion about the role of the European Union. What role will the EU play in the future? And what role should the EU play? The Swedish Democrats want to see a slimmed Europe. I would not call it rationalisation, because it presupposes doing more at the lowest possible cost. We want a model where as little as possible is done at as low a cost as possible. It should preferably be a free trade union with minimal influence from Brussels. We can think what we want about Brexit. But one thing is perfectly clear: the British referendum gave the EU an opportunity for self-examination, an opportunity to look in the mirror and to redo and do the right thing. What is the EU doing in that situation? You do what you usually do – just the opposite. It is planned to abolish the rebates and send the bill to the Swedish taxpayer. Is that what's at the top of the Swedes' wish list? I can't believe it. That must be put in relation to the alternative cost, to what we could have done for the money. It is ultimately a political priority that the government must make. Do you want friends in Brussels or welfare in Sweden? You have to think about that. Mr President, I would like to I have a confession to make. When I was elected to Parliament in 2014, I was not the party's most vocal EU critic. One of my passions in life is to travel, to see and experience the world, to be inspired and to gain new experiences. But loving Europe and loving Europe are not the same thing. In fact, there are two very different things. When I travel abroad, I want to be attributed to the indigenous culture. I want to experience what makes every sovereign nation unique. If we are to become a bit visionary, I wonder how much of the soul of Europe would actually remain with a future European federation with a government, a currency and a flag – there are politicians in this House who advocate such a one. I want to preserve and affirm a European diversity of culture, architecture, language and history. Gigantic Union constructions have been tested in the past and the result was wiped out national cultural heritage and massive restrictions on people's freedom. Mr President, I would like to After five years in Parliament, I am appalled to see how borderlessly much power and money the EU is collecting from Sweden. And for what? It goes to the EU museum, sewage systems, infrastructure projects and roads in Romania. I'm sure that's a good thing. But my employer is the Swedish people. That is why I have a duty to put Sweden first. We do not live in a perfect country with abundance to the point of building roads for others before we rearrange our own. Just look at the railroads! How many people think the trains will go on time for Christmas? Traffic delays are the very least problem we have in Sweden. The number of homeless people is increasing. Mental health is decreasing among young women. Cancer sufferers are dying waiting for surgery. We have blasts, shootings and executions. Let us secure our own streets before we build roads in other countries. Let us warm our homeless before we send tax money to Europe. Let us feed our elderly before we fight injustice in Europe. Let us first save Sweden before we save the world. This would be a good Christmas present for the Swedish people.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-217	Mr President, I would like to Last week, the European Parliament voted through the so-called road package. It is an important victory for the workers of Europe and, by extension, for the whole of the Union. The road package means that the EU establishes rules on wages, working conditions and transport. Rules are also laid down for when and how road hauliers may be in another Member State. If you are in Sweden and are working, it is the conditions that Swedish workers have negotiated that apply to everyone. We Social Democrats have fought for this. It is about the safety of employees, about fair competition between companies and about our European cooperation leading to improvement for all, not just for some. As the economies of Europe develop, when we reach further and when we can do more and more and do so more and more quickly and more advancedly and specializedly, of course, the countries are becoming more and more interwoven. This also makes us more interdependent and hopefully more cooperative. As we grow together, common opportunities and common problems arise. If we want to seize the common opportunities, we need to solve the problems together. The basis for safeguarding European cooperation is to reach new common levels and bring about new common goods. But then we need to build away the destructive. We will not accept a Europe where mobility is used to play out employees against each other and where conditions and welfare are undermined. If that happens, the outside world will be more a threat than a hope for all those affected by it. The reaction is to close down. Without trust, no new common levels are reached and the new common goods are missing. Mr President, I would like to Isolation, however, is a false security. We must therefore show the edifying. For us Social Democrats, justice and development are closely linked. Our Europe is investing in technology and new jobs. Our Europe ensures that people are given the opportunity to equip themselves with training for the new labour market. Our Europe ensures that people have good wages, secure insurance and reliable welfare. Social-democratic policies ensure that people and society get through structural change and cope with transitions. It is this model – the Swedish Social Democratic Model – that has built Sweden, of which we are so proud. The ambition is that Europe should move in the same direction and become the peaceful, social, productive, fair and green project that it has the opportunity to be. Mr President, I would like to As far as the EU levy is concerned, it is appropriate to point out that Sweden is among those who constantly emphasise the importance of a tight budget. Every tax chandelier should provide most benefit to citizens and society. We are against money being used to subsidise unproductive agriculture. Instead, we want to see investments in safety, the environment and research. We are defending budgetary discipline and meeting our commitments. This may not be a particularly lazy attitude. However, some talk about this attitude over time gaining more ear than what is lattjo, because it is responsible. Mr President, I would like to The EU has an extremely important role to play in being a united and strong voice for democracy, international law and the rule of law. In an environment that does not respect these principles, this becomes even more important. Being the perseverer of this is based on the realization that growth is connected with freedom and welfare. There is a common thread between protecting the social and protecting democracy. It goes hand in hand, and we have to clear all parts – from the collective agreement to world peace. I support the committee's proposal in the report. Merry Christmas!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-224	Mr President, I would like to Although it was more than 30 years since I graduated, I remember it as a very happy day. When my friend's daughter Alice graduated last spring, she said it was the day of life. Both comprehensive school and high school had been successfully completed. What happiness! My whole life stood before me, but there was also uncertainty. What am I gonna be when I grow up? Will I be able to do what I want to be? I shared this uncertainty with many, and even now there is a great deal of concern, especially if you have not passed your upper secondary studies. All studies show that it is much easier to get a job if you have completed upper secondary school and of course also post-secondary education. Thanks to Sweden's unique study support system, I was able to read to both a specialist nurse and a specialist doctor. Thanks to this system, my sons have endless prospects for the future. I want everyone to feel this security. Mr President, I would like to The study support system provides fantastic opportunities to study at all levels both in Sweden and abroad. Much has changed since I graduated 30 years ago. Many start studying later in life. Many have a family during their studies. A large number will need to change jobs later in life. It is not as before when you might have kept the same work until you got your gold watch. A large number need to complement their skills as working life has changed a lot. In order to adapt to changes in society and to the labour market, innovations or different conditions in life, we need to keep up with today's changes. The study aid system has to come with us. We are therefore talking about a conversion package. The Moderates have been doing this for a period of time. Unfortunately, the S-led government stands a little cold-hearted about it. It says that it might consider an investigation where you can review whether it is possible to raise the age limit for how long you get study funding. It is not enough to solve the problems of increasing the number of study places if people are unable to manage their student funding. The Swedish and global economy is changing rapidly. Sweden is high-tech, and we have every opportunity to become the winner of digitalisation and be able to import and export much more than before. It requires, however, that we reconsider both what the forms of work look like and what the chances of moving forward in working life look like. We see a longer working life ahead of us. This requires greater competence development and even more career changes. This will be more the rule than the exception. This means that knowledge and skills are of greater importance to ensure security in the labour market. The concern of many young people today is about whether they will get a job and be able to remain in the labour market. There is also great concern about education. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates invest 159 million in a conversion package with four changes: The Moderates refrain from taking a position on the decision on the state budget for Category 15, but we are, of course, referring to our excellent special opinion. With that, I wish the President, my colleagues and all the staff fine and free weekends.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-235	Mr President, I would like to Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström briefly mentions what the Moderates want. It's good to do that. But the same Member does not mention what the Moderates have decided not to agree to the proposals that the government is now implementing, namely the start-up grant. You say no to that, Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström. You say no to allowing 6 000 of the people who are furthest away from the labour market to carry out basic studies that can lead to jobs and do so. You say no to them by saying no to the start-up grant, because for various reasons these people would not study otherwise. In your exercise, you write that you want to do other things. You want to add labour market measures to another area of expenditure, namely No 14. But you don't tell me what you actually want to do. You are simply saying that this sum should remain in the labour market. What is it, Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström, that the Moderates want to offer these 6,000 people?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-237	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Nilsson for the questions, which we have also discussed in the past. I think it is a good moderate policy to tell us what we want to say and what we want to do. That's usually the easiest thing to talk about. As I said, there is a lot we want to do. The start-up grant was introduced in 2017 and was considered difficult by many municipalities. It was considered that there were too few people looking for it and that it did not provide the opportunities that had been envisaged when it was introduced. That is why we refer to other labour market measures. You may have to make an effort to read about them in Category 14. We are talking about shorter courses and niche courses. We're talking about apprenticeships. We have many other opportunities to offer training courses, for example together with companies. It is not that we intend to ignore almost 6 000 people, quite the contrary. We want to give all the opportunities that exist, but not in this way, because start-up aid is considered to be expensive and not very successful.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-241	Mr President, I would like to I don't think Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström has read CSN's evaluation, because it really shows that the start-up support is successful and very successful. 286 of 290 municipalities have joined. 96 percent of the budget, that is, of this SEK 410 million, is already committed. Yet the moderate Member says that this is not a good thing. Those who receive study start-up support read to, for example, assistant nurse, vehicle mechanic or child care provider. They do not get the opportunity to do so if Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström's party politics were to win the Parliament's voice. What's your answer? What do you say to the 6,000 people who, with your policy, are excluded from getting jobs in the shortage professions? What answer does Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström have to give?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-243	Mr President, I would like to I thank Pia Nilsson for the supplementary questions. I do not think we are excluding these people at all. I think we're giving them other opportunities. Sometimes you can introduce something that you believe in and think is good, such as the start-up grant. Then you realize that it is not good, and then I think you can do a re-examination. That's what we've done in the Moderates. Instead, we have other proposals that offer great opportunities. There are other opportunities, such as apprenticeship schemes and working more together with companies. This is also done in many different municipalities. We see many different possibilities for these people. I am not going to say that they are excluded from the labour market, on the contrary. We're giving them other opportunities. We do not want to use aid that we do not think works.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-245	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to mention the start-up aid. It is a support for people who are far from the labour market, who have a short previous education and can complement it in order to acquire the necessary skills, so that they can seek a job and enter the labour market in areas where there is currently a huge shortage. We have a lack of competence in many professions, for example in health care. There are many shortage professions where these people could get in, but they need a high school degree. The upper secondary school degree is more or less a requirement today to enter the labour market. Yet you want to cut back on this. Another thing that stands out in your budget is that you want to give back student funds to police graduates. These are really two questions. How do you think about the lack of skills? This support has proved to be effective. I think you can read evaluations in very different ways. We can get back to that. Why are you withdrawing that support instead of transferring money to police officers? It looks like a red thread. It takes money from those who are furthest away from the labour market in need of increased skills and spends money on repressive power, on police officers. Is there a red thread there? Is it a thought that looks like an event or an event that looks like a thought? You're supposed to think of it as a package? Please also explain why the police should have this opportunity and not all the other shortage professions where we need to get more into education and get more into the labour market.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-248	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mats Berglund for the questions, which I recognise from a previous change of line. We think that start-up support as a method is not good and does not fulfil its purpose. As I have explained before, we see other opportunities to get these people into the labour market. I agree that an evaluation can be read in different ways. We've read it this way. The start-up aid has cost too much and has not produced the desired effect. We therefore want to see other opportunities, as I have mentioned before, such as various niche training courses and much more contact with companies. We're talking about apprenticeships. We're talking about helping out so that you can pursue post-secondary studies. There are many opportunities to enter the labour market in other ways. One way that doesn't work is something we don't want to keep. We want to use tax money responsibly. The next question was about the investment in police officers. I do not think anyone here has missed what is unfortunately happening in society today. There are many violent crimes committed. There are blasts. Many feel threatened. Young people get robbed. Unfortunately, this is very much what is happening in our society. Of course, studies are very good, but there is also a need for more police officers. We see that police officers stop their profession and, for example, start working as insurance advisors or something else instead. A lot of people don't want to go to the police. We want to stimulate police studies. We want people with different ethnicities and different backgrounds to want to read to the police. One possibility then is to get this help through the study aid. I do not see the red thread that Mats Berglund mentions. We have seen a measure that we do not think works, and we have seen a profession that we want to prioritise in this round. There may be other professions to prioritise, but now we see that the need for more police officers is extremely high.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-253	Mr President, I would like to It's good to hear it's not a package. That would, I think, have been a bit of a hard way of presenting a budget. Of course, I also think it is very important that we train more police officers. But I think there are other ways to attract police training and the police profession. Nor do I know whether there is a deficit in the number of people applying for police training. There are quite a few who are looking, but there are quite high demands to get in. There are, of course, very many professions where there is a lack of skills and where more people would be needed to apply. Simply selecting policemen in this way can be perceived as quite unfair. Return to study start-up support! I mentioned that you can read evaluations in different ways. I think you had read the evaluation and decided your opinion even before it came. As Pia Nilsson mentioned, the evaluation shows very clearly that this was a solid support.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-257	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Berglund, for further questions. How good that Mats Berglund talks about how we have read the evaluation. Of course, that's not how we've read the evaluation. I think we in the Moderates are almost the most careful that we want reliable evaluations, and we read them very carefully. However, we do not read them until they have arrived, but we do when they have arrived and we have seen how it has worked. I was asked why they put money back into the police profession. They haven't had as many applicants. It has also been discussed whether it would lower the requirements for entering police training. It's one way to stimulate a search for the police. There are many professions that need to be stimulated in different ways. We can see other solutions. We now presented this solution in this context. I'm sure we can come back with more solutions. Right now we saw that this needs to be given priority. We want to see more applicants, more with different study backgrounds and perhaps later in life. Maybe you've been working on something else and then you want to be a cop. This is why it is an opportunity to encourage applications for police training at different ages and with different opportunities. That is why we are committed to this.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-262	Madam President, I would like I would like to continue on the track that both the Social Democrats and the Green Party have already touched on. It is really about an even broader view. If you look at the Moderates' budget that was previously voted through with the help of the Swedish Democrats, the budget that has been in force until now, you can see that the Moderates, together with the Swedish Democrats, reduced the resources for student support by more than SEK 300 million. When we look at the Moderates' proposal, it is over SEK 300 million that is removed from the expenditure area for student grants. No matter how you twist and turn the question – as Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström tried to do in the previous replica shifts – we do not come from the fact that the Moderates simply want less resources to support all individuals in our society in order to be able to study on equal terms. This is particularly true of those who are furthest from the labour market and who have no upper secondary school qualifications. I just wonder: how does it work when you reduce taxes at the same time, as you did in the previous budget? In the last budget that you voted for, you reduced taxes by over SEK 13 billion. You are again putting forward proposals that would have reduced taxes by many billions for those income earners who have the highest income in the country. The Moderates are in a time where they would rather set different peoples, ethnic groups, and so on, against each other. If we put the students who need start-up support against the billionaires and millionaires that you want to support, how does that work?
i-FGtyMuRBDBh3WsXW5Qc51d	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Daniel Riazat, for the questions, which follow a previous track. Of course, we want to support students in different ways. We want to support everyone who wants to study at different ages. That is why I spoke earlier in my speech about a conversion package of 160 million which is very good and to which the S ‐ led government has unfortunately said no. We are talking about increasing the free amount in order for people to have the opportunity to work and study at the same time. We are talking about raising the age limit in order to study later in life. It may also be that those who had applied for study start-up support are a little older. We also want to increase opportunities to study when you have children, for example, and to be able to do it financially. I don't think we're ignoring the students. On the contrary, we want to see more opportunities. We also want to cooperate more with companies. We know that Volvo, for example, says that they must train 30 000 in order to continue their work now that there is more digitalisation and that has changed the labour market. I think that the Moderates are committed to getting people into the labour market, to keeping them in the labour market and to stimulating people of different ages to study. The honourable Member, Daniel Riazat, says here that studies are important for entering the world of work. We support this in many ways. I wonder why the S-led government is not saying yes to our 160 million conversion package that I am talking about here. I can ask myself that.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-272	Madam President, I would like The debate and my criticism of the Social Democrats I would very much like to take with the Social Democrats and not with the Moderates. When it comes to the question I asked, we can all note that there was no answer. We see how the Moderates want to reduce taxes by many billions, and they have done so in the past. On the other hand, it does not make sense to reduce the amount of aid that we could give to student aid and that area of expenditure. You cannot say that you think you should help, should invest more and that you think it is important and then do not show it in the real numbers. For example, what you showed when you were in government for eight years was that you raised the reminder fees for CSN from SEK 200 to SEK 450. This has put thousands of students in a very problematic situation of debt. I'm simply saying that you choose to do this. N i chooses to invest less in student support and more in the country's high income.
i-KMaCaT4X23XB28BpPe51eZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Riazat, for further questions. As Moderates, we are responsible for the distribution of tax money. It may be that you invest the money in other areas. As we mentioned when it came to study start-up aid, we are more money on labour market measures instead. You also have the right to move money. It's not that we're going to take away money, we're going in different ways instead. We are also investing in the conversion package. I see that we do it in different ways. We do not want to put those who are going to study at a disadvantage, on the contrary. We believe that studies are the way to work and the way to get into society. I do not see the contradictions that Mr Riazat sees. I see that we move money and make other bets. I think that is a responsible thing to do.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-279	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats' proposal was to invest more money in the field of student aid than the government, about half a billion more. However, when a majority of the Parliament decided to lock itself at a lower ceiling, and based on how the regulations are designed, I cannot ask for approval of the Swedish Democrats' draft budget in this area. However, I would like to say that I agree with the particular opinion of the Swedish Democrats. This year it is exactly 100 years since Hjalmar Oskar Ahlberg received the first Swedish student loan in 1919. It was $1,500 (U.S.) for a full year to be repaid within ten years. Since 1919 Sweden has developed. In 1965 we laid the foundations for the system we have today, which is a well-developed study aid system. It is perhaps one of the world's most generous to enable studies for people from all walks of life regardless of the individual's unique conditions. The Swedish Democrats want to preserve this generous system, because society benefits from a well-educated population. It is fair to have a study support system where all people have the opportunity to study and develop their knowledge and abilities. In some respects, an even more generous system is needed. In other respects, in our view, the system has become too generous. Efforts on specific groups that involve an imbalance and inequality are negative. Similarly, efforts without social benefits or expected positive effects are negative. Study funding corresponding to the reduction made by the Swedish Democrats in Category 17 for the so-called "Knowledge boost", we proposed in our area motion also to be reduced for Category 15 for 2020. The reduction refers to the effort that people should be motivated to apply for places of study at the folk high school. The student of folk high school does not receive grades, but merely the study reviews. This means that students at folk high school find themselves in unequal competition, as the labour market must compete against other courses that give grades. It is simply not as attractive in the labour market. If we are to invest in folk high schools, we should also be able to offer proper grades, which we in the Swedish Democrats have proposed before and which should be phased into the business. The start-up grant, which was introduced by the Government in July 2017, cannot be interpreted differently from the fact that it is intended for newly arrived persons. The aim of the initiative creates injustice between groups where other than new arrivals are directed to funding their studies with student loans. Start-up support as a grant means that the new arrivals will not have to take out student loans for a period of time. The aid constitutes an unequal distortion in the funding of studies. In such cases, extended access to student loans is an example of a better option. Each year, the International Organisation for Cooperation (OECD) reviews the education sector in the Member States. One factor that the organisation is looking at is the so-called education premium, that is, how much you gain from continuing your studies compared to starting work right after high school. Sweden usually gets to the bottom. Unfortunately, the latest survey was no exception. Sweden has the clearly lowest education premium of all OECD countries and is therefore the country where it pays the worst to get a high level of education. At the same time, we have a welfare sector that faces major problems where the lack of, for example, teachers, health professionals and police are described as acute. That equation doesn't add up. In order to provide incentives for students to train in professions where there is a shortage of trained staff in the labour market, we therefore propose a targeted grant in the form of increased student grants of SEK 1 000 per month during the study months. This applies to those students who graduate in a shortage area, which refers to some of the ten education programmes where there is the greatest shortage of skilled labour in the labour market. For 2018, which is the latest statistics, these ten are: district nurses, dental hygienists, nurses, preschool teachers, primary school teachers, surgical nurses, specialist teachers, subject teachers, recipes and engineering engineers in technical physics. The proportion of empty seats varies between 76% and 86%. In the worst cases, then, we are only training 14% of actual needs. A higher study grant of SEK 1 000 per month would probably attract more students to these programmes, which is also supported by the parliamentary investigation service. We are therefore investing EUR 770 million in our budget for this very purpose. Sweden should be a country where people can live, work and have children in school even outside the larger cities. There is a shortage of teachers in rural areas, which needs to be addressed. By sparsely populated areas, I refer to areas classified by the Swedish Board of Agriculture as either rural or sparsely rural, which is a total of 194 of Sweden's 290 municipalities. One third of Sweden's population lives in these municipalities. Working in these areas needs to be attractive. Graduate teachers who take up employment in areas classified by the Swedish Board of Agriculture as sparsely populated, we propose to get a 15 per cent reduction on their student debt for each year they work there. The parliamentary investigation service concludes that such a reform costs between 80 and 230 million, depending on the assumptions made. To ensure that the reform can be implemented without any if and but we therefore chose to budget for the full amount of 230 million for more preschool teachers, more primary school teachers, more subject teachers, more vocational teachers and KPU students taking up employment in rural areas. The current police shortage in our country is partly due to a lack of incentives to seek and remain in the profession. A number of major reforms are needed in order to achieve a well-sized and well-functioning police service. A paid police training in the form of a gradual proportional write-off of student loans for those working in the agency is a measure which should form the basis for that particular work. Between 2013 and 2019, between 670 and 1,200 police officers were trained per year. 651 students out of 17 498 applicants have been admitted to the programme for spring semester 2020. So 369 seats for 2020 are gaping empty. According to the statistics, 87 to 97 per cent of these students are employed each year. Of those actually employed, 4.2 per cent then choose to end up as a police officer within five years. In other words, we have a long way to go if we are to reach the stated intention of 10 000 more police workers. We therefore propose in our spending area motion that student loans for police officers should be written off by 20% per year for five years while the employed police work at the agency. For 2020, we are budgeting 100 million to finance this reform. In our view, the reform increases the incentives for people to seek and work with the agency. There are many political areas where the various parties in the Riksdag are far from each other. We could see that the last day before yesterday. I do not believe, however, that the field of study aid is one such area. I am rather convinced that we could all agree on a number of reforms and changes that could lead to Sweden's position as a secure knowledge nation actually being further strengthened. With the extended hand, I would like to conclude my speech, and I would like to wish our Presidents, officials, members of the Committee on Education, the other Members of Parliament and our Ministers a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-300	Madam President, I would like Michael Rubbestad and the Swedish Democrats say no to allowing 6,000 individuals who are the furthest away from the labour market to receive a basic upper secondary education that leads to a job. You say no to this possibility for the 6 000 individuals who are currently receiving study start-up support. You want to remove SEK 410 million, that is, you want to close the door to these 6,000 individuals. What is the justification for this? Well, you say the following, and I think Michael Rubbestad mentioned it in his speech: The aim of the initiative creates injustice between groups where other than new arrivals are directed to funding their studies with student loans. This is what the Swedish Democrats say. Then I just want to let you know that you're leaving untruthfully, Michael Rubbestad. CSN has been looking at this. At present there are 1 972 new arrivals out of 6 000. If we do a quick overshoot, that's about a third. You claim that the aid is intended for new arrivals. So your reasoning falls entirely. This also means that you close the way for Arne Andersson from Sundsvall who also reads and receives study start support or everyone else. It is a cynical way of reasoning to point out the group of newcomers, who are going to take shots because you do not want to allocate 410 million to 6 000 individuals who stand at the far end, the farthest away, from the labour market. What is Michael Rubbestad's response to these 6,000 individuals?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-304	Madam President, I would like So what we are debating today is the report by the Committee on Education and Training on Category 15, which concerns student aid. We all have it here. The document states clearly that a large part of the target group for the start-up grant is newly arrived. It is clearly stated in this document. It has not been written by the Swedish Democrats or by me. It is also stated on CSN's website that you must meet a certain number of criteria in order to receive the start-up grant. You must have been unemployed for at least six months. You should have a short previous education and have a great need for education to get a job. The support is primarily aimed at those who do not have upper secondary education before. You may not have a student loan, and you may not have taken a grant from CSN for the last three years. However, there are no requirements to be a Swedish citizen. If we look at the requirements in total, it is an extremely small group that even falls under the criteria for obtaining study start-up support. What was the idea of the support from the start? The idea was to attract unemployed people with a low level of education who would not otherwise start an education. It would be a carrot for them to start studying. With the start-up grant, they wouldn't have to take out student loans. As Sweden's policy in this area stands today, all people have the same opportunities. We believe in the individual's willingness to enter the system, to want to train. We believe that all the necessary conditions already exist. We should not target individual groups, but we should have a broad system that is open to everyone to take part in Swedish education.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-308	Madam President, I would like This is the study support policy of the Swedish Democrats. Here we believe that everyone has the same opportunities. Why does Michael Rubbestad believe that 6,000 individuals do not choose study funds? There is that possibility. It is because for various reasons they cannot do it. The evaluation carried out by CSN for 2018 explicitly asks the question: What made you study? Then 8 per cent responds to start-up support. The rest say that they know that they want and have to study to get a job, but they do not dare to take out student loans because they do not know if they are able to study. They're not used to studying. But 36 per cent then proceed after the maximum of 50 weeks that you can get study start-up support and take study funding. Then they've got a receipt that they can handle their studies. If they can't do their studies, they still have to pay the loan. That's why they don't start studying. It is cynical of the Swedish Democrats to exclude these 6 000.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-312	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats believe in the individual's responsibility. It is up to everyone if you want to become a part of Swedish society. The State shall not subsidise or pay for an unwillingness. We also say that the reason why you need start-up support is that you should then be able to get a job. But the labour market screams for workers who do not need proper training. Only the other day I talked to a company in Gothenburg that has a huge shortage of labour. They need people to come in and help them clean fish. We can go over what you need to do in half an hour, they say. You don't need to speak Swedish. But if you come here, we're willing to pay for it. You get a job. You're getting pretty fast permanent employment. You'll get well paid. And you will certainly become a part of Swedish society, because here we learn Swedish. This is where we stick together. It's gonna work out anyway. We don't need start-up support to get people into work. It's as simple as that.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-315	Madam President, I would like I will continue on the same theme that I was into earlier and that also Pia Nilsson was into. The start-up aid is targeted at people who are far from the labour market and have low levels of education. Through this support, they can study, acquire skills and enter the labour market. You want to pull away from that, really without making any other proposal. Your explanatory statement, can be read in the booklet which Mr Michael waved just now, is that the start-up grant creates unfair conditions because the other students are referred to taking student loans to finance their studies. Then I have a question. Police officers would like to help by writing off the student loan. Wouldn't that be the same injustice in that case? My second question concerns the education of the people, which Michael Rubbestad mentioned in his speech. The whole foundation of education is that it is a free education that has a very free framework. You learn together in conversation with each other. It should not be rules and curricula and things that govern peoples' education. It's kind of the whole idea. In his speech, Michael Rubbestad pointed out that the Swedish Democrats want to go in with government regulations, rating systems and such things. I think you have a very negative view of general education. You also want to cut back on support for peoples' education quite substantially. How do the Swedish Democrats view people's education?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-321	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that I do not belittle folk high school in any way. There are many good training courses, which in some cases can lead to niche jobs. But the reality is that much of the studies at folk high school do not lead to other studies. If you don't get a proper grade, it's hard to move on. The fact that you do not receive a specific grade also makes you less attractive in the labour market. We believe that grades should be introduced at folk high school, but they should initially be introduced on a voluntary basis. That's what I meant by the fact that we want to phase it in. Around 60 – 70 percent of the teachers at the folk high school are qualified teachers. That's about what's at upper secondary school level, so there's really no reason why folk high schools shouldn't be able to offer the same thing. That was one question. Moving on to the question of the unfairness of the start-up grant, there are a number of criteria that make it impossible for many people to get in that way. If you have had student loans or do not meet any of the other criteria, you are limited; then you cannot get that support. We want a study system that is equal to everyone. That's equality for us. All people should have exactly the same opportunities, and we cannot afford an unwillingness to enter. Whether we're going to bet on cops, well, you might think it's a distortion. But there's a completely different possibility. Everyone has the opportunity to apply for that education. There you are not limited in the same way. Of course, not all people are fit to become police officers, but there are quite other opportunities to enter the education. That's what I'm talking about.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-325	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I think that you Swedish democrats are putting groups against groups in a way that you say in your own motion that you should not do, but you choose different groups. I still do not think that you have an answer to how the group receiving study start-up support should get into work. This is a good bet that has found that group with precision. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask about the ten courses you have selected that will receive SEK 1 000 more a month. Should politics really go in and poke into education in that way? We have a broad lack of competence in academics. It is not just these courses, but it is a broad issue for academic professions. This can, for example, apply to gender scientists. Although gender scientists may not be a profession, gender scientists are needed. They are in demand in the labour market. But you have a very negative view of that particular education.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-329	Madam President, I would like It is my firm belief that there is not a lack of gender scientists in Sweden, but rather an over-representation, but it is an issue we will have to debate on another occasion. It is not the Swedish Democrats who have produced the figures for which professions there is a shortage in, but it is pure statistics. This is what the labour market looks like; this is the demand that exists. We say that we should invest in the ten professions where there is the greatest shortage. This year it's these ten. Let's make the bets there. Then perhaps we will get more people into the labour market who will enter these very professions, which will put an end to this shortage. Next year there will be ten new ones, because the statistics will of course change as we replenish with skilled labour. That is why I do not quite understand the criticism here. It is not the Swedish Democrats who go in and steer in some way, but it is the statistics that show where there is a lack of competence. It is clear that we as politicians must do what we can to solve that deficiency so that we get people to work. We don't need start-up support. There's every opportunity in the world to get out. There are jobs where there are no training requirements, so all the opportunities already exist.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-333	Madam President, I would like Since we are going to have another debate on student aid at the beginning of next year, I am not going to give a very long speech. One of the most important prerequisites for making knowledge and education accessible to more people is a study support system that provides both social and financial security for students in everything from adult education to college. In order for the student benefit system to be fair and thereby be able to counter social misrecruitment in a better way, it needs to be fundamentally changed. The left-wing party's vision is to introduce salary and equal study to work. An investment in the salary of students must in the long term be considered both economically and socially beneficial, both for the student and for society. This would mean greater opportunities for students to get a good education and increase their ability to participate actively in society. It is in the interests of society and democracy that people are well educated, that we invest in education and knowledge. Students would also have access to social security systems with a salary, and many of the social and economic problems currently faced by students would be solved. The Left Party therefore proposes to invest in this budget in a holiday supplement in the study aid. We suggest that for every ten weeks of student funding applied for and granted, one week's student grant should be paid as a summer grant. The Left Party has therefore chosen to allocate SEK 610 million more than the Government in 2020 to finance this investment. During the alliance government the reminder fees for late payment of invoices to CSN were increased from SEK 200 to SEK 450. The Left Party wants to see more active work against people getting into debt problems and therefore proposes that the funding for CSN be increased by SEK 300 million more in comparison with the Government's proposal for CSN to be able to reduce reminder fees. The Left Party is thus presenting the largest budget for student aid in 2020. It's about 1 billion more than the government we have today and a whole 4 billion more than the Christian Democrats."I don't really understand what they're going to have student support for if they're going to take away so much – and more than 1 billion more than the Moderates and several hundred million more than the Swedish Democrats. What is interesting in this debate and which has emerged in the course of the debate is that the parties that lower taxes on the country's high-income earners – that is, for those who absolutely do not need more money – also want to remove the start-up aid, which is an opportunity for thousands of people in our country to gain upper secondary school qualifications, study further and get a job. They are not being pitted against each other, but the people who need start-up support are the very ones who need start-up support – they pretend that it is only about new arrivals – and the countryside, as you can see in the Swedish Democrats' budget. You put a fake initiative in the countryside against what you think is an investment in new arrivals. A song bet on police officers is set against a start-up grant that has a much better impact in today's society. This is, in fact, a common thread in the whole political debate today. It is about taking the focus from the actual conflicts that exist in our society, i.e. that the gaps are increasing and that education is becoming less accessible to certain groups in society. This is opposed to the new arrivals, which are put on the agenda to take the focus from the more important parts. On the Left side, as I mentioned earlier, we believe that student aid and a strong student aid system are a prerequisite for us to be able to have equal and equal education, with equal access to studies for everyone across the country. Then this system won't work. I would also like to ask the government in my speech: why does it not want to restore the reminder fee? Why do you not want to improve students' finances during the summer months? These are, I mean, very important issues, which the student organisations have also raised. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to endorse the special opinion of the Left Party. I would also like to wish the President a Merry Christmas!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-345	Madam President, I would like Member Daniel Riazat talks about student pay and student holiday allowances. My experience is that many students also want to work during the summer months in order to be able to assimilate what they have studied and more easily enter the labour market. My question to the Left Party is how to fund this rather large investment and how do you think it will improve the students' position when you want them to work and study less.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-346	Madam President, I would like I'm not sure I understood the question correctly. As far as the way we finance our budget is concerned, it is by making greater efforts within these budget lines. We have the opportunity to do this because, unlike the Moderates, we are not a party that prefers to lower taxes on millionaires and billionaires rather than make these investments on students. For us, it's pretty simple. We choose to invest resources on those who study and want to make conditions better for them, in this case during the summer, which we know is a big problem for many students. We are simply doing this by not pursuing a right-wing policy of pitting weak groups against other weak groups and, at the same time, investing in the very richest ones. That is my answer.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-348	Madam President, I would like Mr Riazat says that the Moderates are pitting groups against each other, which I do not think is right. We spend money in different ways, just like the Left Party. My question was really about the redistribution of money that you usually do when you make a big effort. I was a little curious about what it is you might want to remove instead. But perhaps the Left Party had no answer to that. I also wonder how to make it easier for students. Many students want to get into work during their studies so that they can get out better when they have finished their studies. If the students are having such a difficult time, I wonder if they really want a vacation and if there should be money for this. I do not really understand that reasoning. The students I meet – and I meet many – are keen to be able to get out and work as early as possible.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-350	Madam President, I would like I have said nowhere in my speech that the Left Party does not believe that students should be able to work. I believe, however, that we have a system that is fundamentally wrong and needs to be changed in the long term because we see how many students somewhere have to choose. Either you study a little less and you may not do as well at your education because you have to work and earn a living, or you simply drop off one or the other. I believe that, in the long term, student support should be seen as payment for any job. Then it is not possible, for example, that during the summer months you cannot pay your rent, which the rental companies do not intend to wait for. I therefore believe that this is the most solidarity-based policy. With regard to how we have got this into our budget, it is not through re-priorities in the student aid itself. We are investing billions more in student grants. That is how we finance this.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-353	Madam President, I would like As several speakers have already mentioned, Sweden has a generous and equal study support system, which enables virtually anyone, regardless of the family's study background or economics, to study and educate themselves into something they might have dreamed of for a long time and which can lead to a job and livelihood. This is something we should be proud of in Sweden. We have a system aimed at smoothing out differences between individuals and groups. However, some adjustments need to be made. We know that life expectancy has increased significantly since the study grants were once introduced. More and more people are working further up in the years. Last spring, we decided to raise the retirement age. From 2022 you will have the right to work until you are 69 years old. Lifelong learning and the possibility of changing careers throughout life are increasingly emphasised. From this perspective, it is reasonable that you also have the opportunity to study further up the years. From the Christian Democrats' point of view, it is therefore reasonable to raise the age for taking student loans to the age of 50. We do not support the government's start-up aid for short-term unemployed people. The student grants available also cover this group. The design of the start-up aid entails a risk of abuse because the compensation is higher than for other employment. Study motivation should be developed for the purpose of training, not because student grants are more favourable than other benefits. In the case of similar SFI-studies, it was previously shown that it was pupils with already good study conditions who benefited from this. As we see it, the start-up aid risks as much as the SFI support to miss the target. Madam President, I would like For the Christian Democrats, the family is important. Many students form a family during the years of study. We have contributed in various steps to raising the floor of parental insurance so that it will not be an economic disaster if you have children during your studies. But as you know, women generally have lower living wages and thus lower pensions than men. The Christian Democrats therefore want to abolish pension rights for the year of study and replace them with pension rights for children. This is based on the Pension Agency's Analysis of pension rights for children and studies from a gender perspective from December 2015. It states that the right to a pension for studies cannot be considered justified from the point of view of distribution policy. However, parental leave and part-time work due to child care are generally considered to be important reasons why women have lower income than men during working life, which later leads to unequal pensions. From a gender perspective, there is therefore reason to use the right of study to increase the annual rights of children in order to make this a somewhat more effective tool for raising women's comparatively low pensions. ..................................................... The proposal that the Pension Agency considers most appropriate, based on, among other things, distribution policy considerations, is that the funds for study rights are used to extend the right to children by one year, from today's four years to five years. So what in the Christian Democrats' tables for Category 15 looks like the abolition of pension rights for studies of SEK 2.4 billion is a direct consequence of the Pensions Agency's proposal, to some extent compensate for women's unequal pensions. Within Category 12, financial security for families and children, the exact same amount is found in an increase. You can read about it in Note 1.7, Pension rights for children. I think that is the answer to a question put by a previous speaker in the speaker's chair. Madam President, I would like I assume that it is a mere oversight that the Swedish feminist government has not paid attention to the Pension Agency's proposals on how to remedy the structural inequalities women suffer as pensioners. It is my hope that the feminist members of the committee and also our minister present will take this reasoning with them in future budgetary work. As this is part of a coherent budgetary matter, I am abstaining from making any claim in this part and refer instead to our specific opinion.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-363	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats initially write in their motion that all parts of the student support should help to equalize differences in economic conditions among individuals and between groups. That's amazing! But then when I browse the Christian Democrats' motion, I come to the paragraph on study start-up support. There is the smoothing of differences that have been blown away. Instead, the Christian Democrats believe that the start-up aid is at risk of being misused and that there should be no "tudie motivation" from a monetary reward, but from an academic ambition. Therefore, the Christian Democrats say no to study start-up support. Madam President, I would like I should not be so surprised at the speech of the Christian Democrats with their split tongues, but this is one of the most contemptible and condescending things I have read in a long time! Does Gudrun Brunegård mean that the 6,000 individuals who today receive start-up support – they are the furthest away from the labour market, lack basic education and can now get jobs – should not receive targeted support because they lack an academic ambition? This is what Gudrun Brunegård writes while she writes in the same exercise how important it is to equalize the economic differences. What hypocrisy is this?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-366	Madam President, I would like Member Pia Nilsson does not need to be so heated. I just explained the background to this. Just recently, we have seen what happened with the targeted SFI support, which was higher than other benefits and benefits in labour market measures precisely to get people who were far from the labour market into jobs. There was a risk of abuse. The support was chosen despite the fact that they did not really have those ambitions. If you want to go further and study there is a set of different study funds and student grants that you can use. That is the background to our formulation. If you want to study, there are study funds available. If you want to apply for a job, there are other possibilities for it. We set some priorities other than the majority and the government. Among other things, we are investing a number of millions in expanding the possibility of, for example, professional adults for those in the care sector so that they can take part-time vocational training there. I think that is something that could be further developed. Pia Nilsson doesn't have to be so upset.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-371	Madam President, I would like I will continue to be very upset as long as you have this grotesque view of humanity, Gudrun Brunegård. I think you express this in your motion. If you lack an academic ambition, you have no way into the student support kingdom, according to the Christian Democrats' motion. That's terrible! According to CSN, the abuse is minimal. This cannot be misused, as Gudrun Brunegård prejudices. You have to accept the facts. You can't be as resistant as Gudrun Brunegård is. It is not a question of different priorities, but of different approaches. For us Social Democrats, these 6 000 individuals are so valuable, because now they have a chance for a completely different future.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-374	Madam President, I would like It is sad that Pia Nilsson is making an effort to see a completely different agenda from the one that exists. We believe that there is good support for those who want to study. We do not need to create special support that is particularly beneficial for a particular group, but we think that the general support available is good. I would have been much happier if Pia Nilsson had used her outrage to reverse the structural injustice and inequality suffered by women in retirement. I expect Pia Nilsson to use her indignation and channel it to process her party to support the transfer of 2.4 billion from pension rights for studies to children's rights. It would benefit the women.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-377	Madam President, I would like I'm not so upset. On the other hand, I'm rather curious. Gudrun Brunegård speaks of study aids for those who have reached their age. It is positive that this issue is being raised. The memorandum Better student support for the elderly, which is part of the January agreement, has come out for consultation just today. In addition to what Gudrun Brunegård is talking about, i.e. extra study funding for up to three years, we have actually proposed that it be four years. The same applies to the repayment period. It should be some extra weeks for those over 40 if there are labour market reasons for it. This sounds like something we agree on quite a bit. My question is really only whether the KD will support this memorandum.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-380	Madam President, I would like I dare not anticipate our handling of this matter. However, in so far as this is consistent with our ambitions, it should be possible. It remains to be seen. We have the treatment ahead of us.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-381	Madam President, I would like Thank you so much for the answer, Gudrun Brunegård! As I understand it, your ambition is to increase the age of those who will be able to receive study funding. We have a slightly higher ambition: four years instead of three years. I hope that we can agree that higher ambitions are better than lower ambitions, not least in the field of education.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-383	Madam President, I would like Surely it is not customary to stand and negotiate in this way in Parliament. But it has happened in the past that you have signed up and compromised. I cannot rule out this happening, but I cannot promise anything either. So in my last change of line, I would also like to take this opportunity to express my thanks for a very good reception when I entered the committee and in the House. I wish everyone – the members of the committee, the officials, the Presidents and so on – a really good and restful Christmas.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-385	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for wishing merry Christmas in the last line shift! Then you and I can talk a little longer. I read in the Christian Democrats' budget that you want to reduce this spending area by about SEK 3 billion. In addition to the start-up grant, it is above all a question of transferring money to children's years in the pension system. I appreciate the ambition to try to achieve a more equal society, but I wonder how to do that. You want to transfer money next year. It's early, isn't it? This is a major change that should, of course, be anchored in the Pensions Group. The honourable Member is happy to comment on how the Christian Democrats think there. Why are these two groups being pitted against each other: students and women who are at home with children? It is above all funding, that you take from students, to whom I am very doubtful. In fact, studies do not always pay off if you count on a life's income. You can think about this very much, but this will be a double punishment for those who choose education that may not pay off. They may study because they are interested, want to improve, or want to form. I can start by asking those questions.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-390	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Berglund, for the opportunity to talk a little more about the important gender equality reform that we want to achieve in order for women to receive more equal pensions in relation to men's pensions. In this equal society, women still take a greater burden. They're on parental leave longer. They take part-time work to a greater extent when children are young, and they take a larger share of the days, for example. That'll make women's lives pay less. I'm new, so this is not my proposal from the beginning. However, when I first saw the proposal, I took the time to read through the report from the Pensions Authority – I would recommend that all Members do so. It has been very carefully calculated and concluded that the most effective way of adjusting and improving the conditions for women's pensions is precisely to transfer pension rights when studying to child rights years. A calculation has been made. Of course, it has been seen that students take time, and they do not earn money. That is really why pension rights came about. But it makes a marginal difference at the end of the day, if you count life's wages. It has been seen that this is the most favorable, the least harmful and the easiest way. We simply want to make a mark. This is such an important issue of equality that we put it in our budget and hope that others will take it on board.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-395	Madam President, I would like Well, then I understand Gudrun Brunegård's argumentation in general. But will there not be any way to admit the problem without doing anything about it — that women are at home with children to a much greater extent than men? Should we not focus on addressing that problem instead? There's an investigation that came in 2017, I think. No, it came in early 2019. It is about maternity leave and more equal parental insurance. Now I'm confusing the dates, but it doesn't matter. We haven't got hold of it yet, but we're gonna have to. There are a great many good proposals there, including three-part parental insurance. We need to implement the good proposals. What are the Christian Democrats' views on this investigation and on the proposals that parental leave should allow more fathers to be at home with their children?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-397	Madam President, I would like It is very fun to talk about family policy and gender equality in the Riksdag chamber, Mats Berglund. It is not surprising or news in any way that the Christian Democrats are in favour of full freedom of choice. We trust that parents make the choices that suit that particular family the best. You can also see, when you follow the statistics over the years, that it is becoming more and more equal. It is more acceptable in society today that fathers are also available. When my husband took leave of his internship service in 1981, when our oldest child was born, one had never heard of such a thing in that place: that a doctor takes time off to be at home with his child. But the passing of time causes changes to take place in a way that does not force people to do anything against their will.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-399	Madam President, I would like Someone became Minister of Finance, some other Minister of Justice. Others became doctors, teachers, nurses, IT technicians, nurses, vvs:are – yes, the list can be made long over anyone who has managed to achieve the goals of their dreams through studies at different levels and at different times in life. In our strong society, education is no longer something you get once when you're young. No, there should always be the opportunity to continue studying, change careers and train – throughout life and throughout the country. For the individual, education provides freedom and more choice. For society, education leads to better matching and higher growth. The benefits are for the individual, Madam President, but the benefits are also for society as a whole. Of course, success requires the strength and will of everyone, but it also requires a well-functioning study system. We Social Democrats stand up for and defend the right to a generous study aid system that allows both women and men to move on to studies after school or later in life. Our goal is the freedom of man and the full participation of all in lifelong learning. It strengthens equality and makes our society stronger. We know, Madam President, that people are imageable, but politics needs to help overcome obstacles so that more people dare to take that step, which can strengthen and equip them for the jobs that are now available and the jobs that are waiting around the corner. There are many who refrain from studies because they do not dare or can use the study aid system for various reasons, nor do they have any other means of living during their studies. Madam President, I would like Of all these SEK 25.5 billion that the Riksdag has decided on for study support, I would therefore particularly like to highlight the importance of the SEK 410 million per year for study start-up support, which our S-governed government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, has decided to reintroduce. The start-up grant is aimed at unemployed people aged 25 to 56 who have a short education and a great need for education. This will strengthen their ability to enter the labour market. The grant consists of a grant that is paid out for a maximum of 50 weeks for full-time studies. The aim is to recruit people who would not have chosen to study if study funds had been the only option. It's important to remember. To date, more than 6 000 people have been granted this aid. Half of them have chosen to study vocational courses in health care, children and leisure and vehicles and transport, i.e. in short-term professional areas. The Central Board of Student Aid, CSN, has asked in a survey what led these people to start studying. The majority replied that they needed training and that training is needed to get a job. More than half of them replied that they would probably not have started their studies without the start-up support. That picture, Madam President, is confirmed by many representatives of the municipalities interviewed by CSN: the start-up grant has created opportunities for people who would not otherwise have started to study. Madam President, I would like The general objectives of the student support are to promote recruitment and equalise differences between individuals and groups and thereby contribute to greater social justice. Has the start-up grant been recruiting? Answer yes.
i-TkJyNLM78CArKtogpcecRv	Has study start-up support contributed to greater social justice? Answer yes. Despite these basic facts, there is a compact opposition in this House from the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats to maintaining study start-up support. If the right-wing conservative block is allowed to decide, the door to basic studies leading to jobs will be closed to many of these 6,000 individuals. They would be deprived of the opportunity to study as assistant nurse, child nurse or vehicle mechanics — labor that businesses and society are screaming for. They would be deprived of the opportunity to grow with knowledge that strengthens self-confidence and inclusion in society. They would be deprived of the possibility of a much brighter future. Or as one participant from CSN's study wrote: My whole future has become much brighter. The education has shown me that everything is possible and has given me and my life a meaning. No, says the Swedish Democrats. They are terrified that the start-up grant only goes to new arrivals, even though CSN's statistics show that new arrivals represent only one third of the students. The fact that many people get jobs in the shortage professions seems to be completely uninteresting for the Swedish Democrats as long as it is about foreign citizens. No, says the Moderates, and writes that they fund other priority investments. They refer to labour market policies, without specifying which ones. Any support for those who are furthest away from the labour market and have a need for basic education will in any case not be spoken of in Moderate Sweden. No, says the Christian Democrats. They are convinced that the grant is being misused, even though CSN says that the risk is minimal. As if this were not enough, it is stated in the Christian Democratic motion that study motivation should come not from a monetary reward but from an academic ambition. So contemptuously and condescendingly, only a high-bourgeois party speaks that has no interest in allowing 6 000 people who are furthest away from the labour market access to basic studies that can lead to jobs – as long as they do not have an academic ambition. The ambition to get a job is not good enough in the Swedish Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like Here is a clear dividing line between us Social Democrats and the right-wing conservative parties. We know that people are imagelable and therefore open doors in the education system at all levels and provide support to those with the greatest need so that more can be hired and get jobs. We also know that many people hesitate or refrain from studying. This is particularly true of older people who need to study at lower levels of education. This hesitation, Madam President, often stems from uncertainty, which is often linked to a social background where there has been neither studies nor student loans. Here the start-up support meets the right target group. Skills development in the world of work and lifelong learning, where everyone is truly given opportunities to participate on the basis of their own conditions, is a prerequisite if we want to reduce disparities and create confidence in the future – and we want that, Madam President. This strengthens equality. It strengthens our society. It strengthens the individual to reach the goals of his dreams of perhaps becoming Minister of Finance, Minister of Justice, assistant nurse, IT technician or vvs:are. The list can be made long, Madam President. I support the committee's proposal.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-424	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions for Mr Nilsson. First of all, I would like to say that it is very flattering that the S-member has read so clearly what we have written and is happy to talk about what we think – almost more than what the party thinks. However, I see something very positive: that only today there was a message from the Ministry of Education that you want to raise the age in order to be able to get student funding from 56 years to 60 years. We have thought so for a long time, but in the past you have only spoken of a review of the possibility of possibly raising the age of student loans. But now you, too, have actually come to the conclusion that you want it. It has taken some time, but I think you have taken the impression of what we think. Member Pia Nilsson talks a lot about the start-up aid and has had several comments on this. My question is whether this is the only solution for reducing unemployment, for example. I know that your group leader and also the Prime Minister have had a large and clear objective of reducing unemployment to the lowest in the European Union. However, we have seen nothing of that. My question to the honourable Member is, above all, whether there are any solutions other than start-up aid. Because I can't hear anything else.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-428	Madam President, I would like The reason I highlight the shortcomings of the Moderates is that the Moderates themselves do not. That's quite a given logic. There is little to say about Moderate motion, which refers to labour market policy measures that are not even concrete. It doesn't say anything about what you want. On the other hand, you say no to start-up jobs and no to extra services. In fact, I have been looking at that area of expenditure. I do not know whether Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström could clarify what is there, because it is not easy to read. Maybe that's not the point either. I think it's good that we raise the age of study aid. It's been in the cards for some time. I also think it is very good that we can agree on this in this House. Then there are other parts that we also need to look at, and it is well sent for referral from the Ministry of Education. Matilda Ernkrans will certainly develop it a little more. The start-up support is an important piece of the puzzle to really give everyone the chance to a high school degree. Both Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström and I know that what it takes to get a job today is a high school degree. If you deprive certain groups of that chance, you have won nothing. There are 6,000 individuals that we do not know would be studying unless they were given this opportunity to show that they are doing their studies. Then study funds are continued after these 50 weeks. It's the high school exam we need. It is education that leads to the new jobs. That's it.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-433	Madam President, I would like I agree that it is positive that we can agree on certain points. Of course, it may be that we can benefit from each other. I think that in this case you have taken the most impression of what we thought about the rise in age, for example. I still do not think I have a clear answer to what other possibilities are available than start-up support. We have talked about most of the debate today. I know there are other things, as the Moderates have talked about on several occasions. You can read about it in Category 14, but I have also explained a number of possibilities. I still think that unemployment is a concern that unfortunately has not fallen, and I wonder if there are any other measures than study start-up aid to reduce it.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-436	Madam President, I would like I do not know if I should think it is a good thing that Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström is addressing this with labour market measures, because that is something that the Moderates really do not want to see much of. After all, you removed over 3 billion from that framework in 2018, and that is what has been in force up to now, including in relation to the Employment Service and other labour market policy measures. I think you're guilty of the answer. What were you thinking? You say no to extra services that we actually want to expand, because here we see an opportunity for those who are very far away from entering the labour market, but you say no to that. It is the same with start-up jobs for those who are newly arrived and have not received a foothold and who may also not have the opportunity to study so far. You also say no to that. It is wasted tax revenue, says Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel's colleague Elisabeth Svantesson. We have suggestions and leave absolutely no one in the lurch. We do not do that when it comes to labour market policy. But I don't know if the Moderates think that's particularly good.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-439	Madam President, I would like More people must be given the opportunity to study. This is a simple position that underpins the Center Party's entire view of student aid: more must be given the opportunity to study. It cannot be just middle class youths in the urban environment who study and absorb the latest knowledge. It cannot be just those who have the opportunity to be attractive in a labour market that is already easier for them to reach than for many others. That is why it is crucial for everyone's equal opportunities in Sweden, but also for society at large of course, that higher education attracts more than just those who come from study-experienced homes and that even those who are already to the years or have been unemployed for several years have the opportunity to take new steps forward and up the social ladder. The education system must be for everyone who wants to be involved in building Sweden in the future, regardless of whether you are born in Sweden or not, whether you are young or older and whether you live in the big city or in the countryside. If this is to apply to the education system, it also requires student support for everyone. Today, Sweden unfortunately has a comparatively high level of social disparate recruitment to higher education. It is also increasing, and that is something to be taken seriously for everyone in this room. Madam President, I would like It is good that people want to invest in education. We want to encourage and make it easier for more people to study. And in order for more people to cope with their studies and get out of work, we want a more flexible study funding system. It will be possible to change the course of the labour market. This applies not least to those who, in the coming recession, are likely to lose their jobs. For that group, it may be that many of these jobs do not come back. We all know about digitalisation. It is in operation and it changes industries and knowledge needs. Industries change and jobs disappear. Then there are others and new ones. Then the study system and the study funding system must also be there to support those who want to change the course and become attractive in a new labour market. Therefore, we have also participated in the work to increase the age of CSN to 60 years. The proposal has just been referred to today. Unfortunately, it has not reached everyone here in the debate today. Students who complete their studies before the appointed time should be rewarded for this. That's the Center Party's view of it. But the system must of course also be adapted for those who have a lower rate of study. For example, they may be persons who have completed upper secondary school or who are partially sick to varying degrees. It must also be possible to get study money when you get older, as I said. It gives more people the opportunity to study an education that leads to a job. To get an increased throughput and more at work, the Center Party wants a more flexible study funding system that rewards students who finish their studies prematurely. I think everyone agrees that it is positive that education leads to jobs. But it is actually not entirely wrong to work during your education. There's still a lot to do. Madam President, I would like Want and can a student work during their studies it is fantastic. The free amount determines how much students can earn at the same time as they receive student funding. We in the Center Party believe that the amount of the release should be increased and perhaps eventually removed. Not all students want to take out student loans. We think it is important to make it easier for those who want to pay for their training time in a different way than with loans. It is also good to work during your studies, as in addition to additional income, it provides experience and contacts in the labour market. We can see that in Denmark, for example, where you have student employees and that those who have gained relevant work experience during their studies actually have easier access to the labour market. This is particularly important for those who do not have a large network with them from home. Therefore, the amount of the release should be reviewed. Sweden should invest more in more students getting relevant work experience as a student employee and less in limiting students' income opportunities. Madam President, I would like I have explained how the Center Party wants to create study support that increases people's chances of successful studies in different phases of life regardless of background. With that, I would like to thank you for your good cooperation in committee. I would like to wish my colleagues, the President and not least all the members of Parliament and the committee a Merry Christmas. I hope that in the future we will have even more people from different backgrounds to study.
i-KVKhXmnZRBPWSvxFgDqgCW	Madam President, I would like Gustavus Adolphus College in Saint Peter in Minnesota was my first experience in higher education. It was a liberal species college in the Midwest, or smile, as it was also said about it, a bunch of rich kids on a hill. I came in there after high school, and my education was made possible by CSN support. My first insight into higher education also gave an insight into how different countries' student grants work. In the same classroom in the United States, international and American students who either through rich parents paid the very expensive fees, Tuition and Board Fees, gathered themselves with students who received the fees funded through scholarships based on good grades, good sports achievements or other outstanding achievements. In the same classroom there were also those who paid the very high tuition fees via student loans and who worked night and day. For them, the debt burden was very heavy and the pressure to get a well-paid job was enormous. The inherent injustices of such a system are great. In a classroom at a Swedish university, the differences are not as pronounced. The student support is based on the fact that everyone who wants and has the right to study at a university should be able to do so. In Sweden, no one can say: I couldn't afford it. It makes our system accessible, fair and included. Madam President, I would like The motivation for young people and older people to be able to study at university is not only about equipping people for the labour market, but also about increasing knowledge and education in Sweden. As much as culture must always have its own value and never be for anything else, education and training must also have their own value. A study aid system, as it is organised today, contributes to this very thing. Liberals see that the system that we have today in many parts is well balanced and adapted. We believe, of course, that the future will bring with it the need for certain changes. I would like to mention a few. We have already heard about the memorandum on better student support for the elderly, which is part of the January agreement and which we welcome. Better matching and skills development on the Swedish labour market will be required. Liberals are no stranger to testing whether individual skills accounts can be built up to be used for further training and retraining. We also want to increase the throughput in the university by increasing the driving forces for students, for example by extending summer courses and within the framework of the student support area, to pass their degree at the appointed time. We see that hopefully it's coming. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to mention the much-discussed start-up aid here today. It was part of the previous government's knowledge-raising effort and is developing and continuing now. We have heard that the start-up grant aims to provide financial conditions for the unemployed with a short educational background and a great need for education to take the step to study. We share that view. However, we believe that the start-up aid may also need to be adjusted. Last year I visited vocational training with sfi, which among other things is run by Göteborgs Tekniska College. This is a type of training that will need to be developed and expanded, and many funded education through study start-up support. But it was to some extent a complicated system, with administrative problems and waiting times for the aid to be granted. The support is not always adapted for the study duration, and it is also found that cooperation with the Public Employment Service and the municipalities needs to be improved. Overall, I hope that the government will be able to come back to these areas of improvement. Having said that, we in the Liberals are in favour of the proposal contained in the report before Parliament. Like my predecessors here in the speaker's chair, I would of course like to wish you all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-459	Madam President, I would like Education is a key to success. It is a key for the individual but also for society at large. Education is important for democracy and for a resilient society. It is important for Sweden as a knowledge nation; we need highly educated people to be able to compete as a knowledge-intensive nation. For the individual, upper secondary education is in practice a basic requirement for entering the labour market. It is therefore very good that we have a strong and broad study funding system that meets these requirements, which is flexible and enables studies at different levels. The study funding system aims to ensure that everyone has a real opportunity to study – in higher education institutions, universities or universities of applied sciences, in Komvux, in our folk high schools or at upper secondary level, for those who need it. No one should have to give up studies because they cannot afford them. The study aid system also allows for some departures from the streamlined and targeted training courses. You can immerse yourself during a semester or two in a subject that may not have a direct bearing on a planned degree or a professional orientation. It's a way to broaden and a way to form. Of course, study time can be a bit tricky, but it is possible to live off study funds. Last term of office, the S-MP government increased the grant part by SEK 300 per month. It was welcome, and it means a lot. Many choose to study at the university right after high school or possibly after a year or two. Others delay their higher studies. It is important that the system is wide and able to cater to people in different phases of life. Students with children can receive supplementary allowance and special assessment if they have sick children and may have fallen behind in their studies. I am also pleased that we have enabled part-time sick leave for students who have long-term illness. For people in the middle of life, studies can be an opportunity to develop further and perhaps take a leap in their careers or change their course. Lifelong learning is important, not least at a time when we are facing major changes. Old professions disappear and new ones are added. The working day that you may be used to making it look can very quickly change. Completely new elements are added and with them demands for new knowledge and skills. The study aid system should allow for a transition in the middle of or late in life. The four parties that have jointly agreed on the January agreement have prepared a proposal on how to make the study funding system possible for more elderly people through increased age limits. The government is today sending out the memo Better student support for the elderly for a referral. I hope for strong support for this referral and this memo. It also needs to be mentioned that, outside the study aid system, from next autumn there will be a whole new opportunity for people in the middle of working life to train themselves, change their course, improve themselves or just take a leap in their careers through education. It is the Green Party that has pushed the proposal for development time. There, for up to a year, you can have the opportunity to develop or develop into a higher level of remuneration than the student aid system can do, perhaps without the need for debt. Thus we also meet a completely new target group that probably would not have chosen to further educate itself otherwise. Perhaps it could be an entrance to further studies with study funds. The university of applied sciences turned ten this year. It has been a success story with amazing results. In the majority of cases, those who have completed a course at a university of applied sciences go on to new employers and raise their salary sharply – on average, they raise their salary by several thousand SEK per month. All courses at the University of Applied Sciences are eligible for study funding, but yet the agency says that many give up because it is difficult to go down so much in income when you are in the middle of working life. The period of development will clearly meet this particular demand. Next year, development time will cost 220 million. When this is fully built in 2022, we will bet 1 billion. It is well-invested money in people who may not be happy at work today and who need to move forward but also in Swedish industry, who need to meet the skills gap. Madam President, I would like For a group that is far from the labour market, the government continues to invest in the Knowledgelift and offers study start-up support linked to this. It provides economic opportunities for the unemployed over 25 years of age with short training to take the step to study and thus gradually to work. This was introduced in 2017. It was subjected to a certain attack, one may say, with the M-KD budget but is now back and will deliver. CSN's investigation from last spring shows that it works; the support recruits precisely the groups intended for studies. Folkbildning is also a strong and growing player for the education of many, not least of foreign born but also of disabled people and people with little or no previous education. Folkbildning is mainly with the Culture Committee, but in the area of expenditure we are discussing today there are both student funds for courses at folkhögskolan and student aid for folkhögskolan's introduction programme for young people. Folkbildningen offers support for the work aimed at asylum seekers and newcomers for an improved establishment in Swedish society. The study associations are a joint player who is probably better able to do this than others, and that is why this task should remain there. I regret that several of the opposition parties want to remove the start-up support and also the student funding for studies at the folk high school and the support for the folk high school introduction programme. This would counteract much of the work the government is doing to increase equality and strengthen integration. There is talk of controlling educational choices through the study aid system, for example through one that I understand the very twitchy system where different educations are to be rewarded with 1 000 SEK based on a list of professions where you have a shortage of staff today but which may not at all be shortage jobs next year – it is very difficult to predict labour market fluctuations. The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats do so through depreciation for some students who have chosen a special education – in this case police training. I think this is the wrong way to go. If a profession is unpopular or if an education has too few applicants, we should of course instead make the profession attractive and strengthen the education, just as the government shows with, for example, the teaching profession. We are making the teaching profession more attractive. We've raised our salary levels considerably. We facilitate the classroom situation through more adults in school and through more teachers' assistants and special educators. We enable career paths, for example through professional programs. We enable competence development with the Teacher Lift and Reading Lift. We strengthen the students, especially those who have the toughest, including through the read-write-count guarantee that has now started to apply. We improve the quality of teaching in teacher education through more teacher-led lessons and better practice. We also offer more ways into the education through short courses, VAL, KPU and summer courses. So we get more people to choose and go through an important education. In total, 31 000 more people have been hired at school. Teacher education is also by far the largest and most sought-after education in our universities and colleges. It is clear that the police profession may also need to be more attractive, but I think that this – to forgo study funds – is the wrong way to go. Madam President, I would like The study aid system has about a hundred years on its neck today. It is a broad, strong, fair and flexible system, and it has been a great success for a very long time. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-485	Madam President, I would like I want to ask Mats Berglund some questions. Today we have talked a lot about the start-up support in both speeches and lines. The MP has now been in the government for five years, and I understand that one of the aims of the study start-up aid is to reduce unemployment. I tried earlier to find out what we are going to do because unfortunately unemployment has not decreased at all. What other suggestions are there for what to do? After all, it cannot be just the start-up aid that is the solution. Furthermore, Mr Mats Berglund spoke about Moderates' efforts in, for example, the cancellation of study funds by the police and has instead a proposal to make the profession more attractive. Instead of suggesting how to make the police profession attractive, Mats Berglund indicates how to make the teaching profession more attractive, which in itself is good. But the question here was really about how to make the police profession more attractive, and one of our proposals is to write off study funds. My questions to Mats Berglund are now: How do we make the police profession more attractive? And how can we reduce unemployment when the start-up aid is clearly not enough?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-489	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström, for the questions. They were about the start-up support and how to make the police profession more attractive. I can start with the latter question. This is not really my policy area, and it is not really part of the area of expenditure that we are discussing today. But I gave quite a few examples of how the government works to make the teaching profession more attractive. I think you can draw a lot of inspiration from that work. Increasing the quality of education is important. You kind of don't get around it, so I think that's incredibly important. Increasing wages is, of course, also important. We have greatly increased teachers' salaries, and this provides a strong incentive. Police work is a very dangerous profession. Making it safer can be an opportunity to make it more attractive. There are certainly many proposals that those involved in this policy area can develop further. It is clear that we can have a battery of labour market policy measures. What we are discussing today, however, is precisely the fact that, in practice today, upper secondary skills are needed to enter the labour market. That is the problem for the group to which the start-up support is directed very accurately. To strengthen weak students throughout the education system through everything from the reading-write-count guarantee and the reading lift early in preschool to that no one should slip behind I think is an important way to strengthen individuals so that they get into the labour market.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-495	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Berglund, for the answers! Otherwise, a common political trick is to talk about a different question from the one asked. But now I actually got some answers as to how even the police profession and not just the teachers' profession could be made attractive. At least it is positive that there are some suggestions here. Now MP has been in the government for five years and still has no concrete proposals on how to reduce unemployment. Mats Berglund mentions several proposals which he thinks could be good, but they have clearly not had the effect that we would have liked because unemployment has not decreased. After all, the goal of both study start-up support and study funding is to be able to study and then get a job; that's the idea of the whole thing. But that has not been enough, so my question remains: what other solutions are there? I do not believe that the start-up aid is the only solution, as it clearly seems to be for MP.
i-GhJHyr19fNjgcdAoXC6Sk5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström, for the follow-up to this question. It is clear that we could have a discussion in the Committee on Employment on labour market policy measures, but that may not be what we should have in this area of expenditure. I think we should strengthen the entire education system, which I was into earlier, even when it comes to children of early age. Children who come from non-study environments are an overrepresented group among those who choose not to continue their studies. Then it is important to strengthen those children early, already in preschool. When it comes to children who come from a home environment where you don't read, it's about strengthening the pre-schoolers through the Reading Lift for preschool teachers, so that the children get reading, and to follow the students throughout the education system. I think that is a good answer in this debate.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-499	Madam President, I would like Mats Berglund and the Green Party do not really understand the point that we want to increase the study grant by SEK 1 000 per month for those who train to become professions in the industries with the greatest shortage of staff. Should the study grant be increased, the annual cost is estimated at SEK 970 million. The Swedish Parliament's investigation service has concluded that an increased study grant would probably attract more students to these programmes. The Labour Force Survey 2018 shows that employers continue to have difficulties recruiting staff with the right training. There is a shortage of newly graduated job seekers in 40 of the 72 training groups they have examined. According to the Investigative Service, 50% of employers say that there is a shortage of graduates from 29 of the training courses.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-502	My question to Mats Berglund is: Why do the Green Party and Mats Berglund want to invest in folk high school, which does not necessarily lead to work and does not lead to grades, instead of an increased study grant that just leads to work?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-503	Madam President, I would like Folkhögskolan is an older institution than the student funding system. It has been around for a very long time and has been very good. Folkhögskolan is typically Nordic in its design and has worked very well for education and improvement in many different ways. It is a business that works well and where you learn together. Perhaps the aim has not always been to get people into the labour market. It doesn't always have to be the purpose of education. There may be other important purposes to be fulfilled. I would like to come back to what Mr Michael started with on the ten deficiency professions that have been identified. But it's a list that's temporary and a very jerky system. The list can change all the time. But we know that today there is a great lack of academics overall. And the labour market is very changing. What is a profession today? The labour market is so changing – new professions and titles are coming – that it is difficult to predict what will be a shortage of jobs tomorrow. And what exactly is a profession? That is why I mentioned the example of gender science, which is a sought-after knowledge in business, NGOs and the public sector. You may not be hired as a gender scientist, but as an investigator or something else. But that knowledge is needed.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-506	Madam President, I would like Mats Berglund makes it sound like it is the Swedish Democrats who have produced this list. Of course it's not. It is among other statistics central office that sees trends over time and can make a forecast forward so that it does not come as a surprise. Yes, it's a living document; that's a little bit of the point. By making efforts now, hopefully, we are remedying the shortage in these ten sectors. Next time, it's a new shortage industry. By having a living document, we are continually remedying the shortcomings, and in the end, hopefully, there is no problem at all. There are simple jobs in Sweden, and entrepreneurs scream for labor. I mentioned the example of Gothenburg where there is a great need for people who can clean fish, and you do not need education for that. We've got too much money. At the same time, there is a negative attitude towards simple jobs. If we really want to make a difference in society, the attitude to simple jobs needs to change.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-511	Madam President, I would like I understand that it is someone other than the Swedish Democrats who have produced this list. But it is still a political decision that the list should apply. It is always half a step behind development when you give extra support to the training that is on the list today, because once these people have graduated, it is a whole new list that applies. Just as Michael Rubbestad was on the list, the list is changing. It is therefore a strange way of remedying a problem. I have no negative attitude toward so-called simple jobs. I believe that society is full of simple jobs, but a permanent entry into working life today requires a high school degree.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-513	Madam President, I would like Being able to take part in education and to complete an education has its own value. Getting a job, being able to make a living and building a life around your job also has a social value. This autumn there were more new university students than in a long time. The other day, the figures showed that the number of students for spring is also a record number. For me as Minister of Higher Education and responsible for student funding, this is an excellent message. Now many have the chance to grow with education and training. The Swedish model with generous study funding combined with free studies provides a good basis for our knowledge nation. It enables people of different economic backgrounds to educate themselves. For me, this is ideologically important. In order to improve the conditions for studies, Stefan Lövven's first government increased the study grant by SEK 300. Now the study kit is listed with the prisba amount and is slightly increased for 2020. The means of study continue to enable studies and further training. It's good for individuals, and it's good for building society stronger. Our country will compete with knowledge and competence. This is the right way forward, not least when the labour market changes as quickly as it does today. The demand for people's skills is increasing, and Sweden should be a leading knowledge nation. A prerequisite for this is a generous and stable study aid system. We have gone from having quite elitist universities to having higher education throughout the country. In 1956 we had about 17,000 students. Today there are over 400 000 students. It is an important and good development and a strong competence base. Madam President, I would like Today's rapid development requires new knowledge. Education cannot therefore be confined to the age of children, young people and young adults. Learning needs to be a lifelong process in which periods of professional work are alternated with periods of study. Lifelong learning, longer working life and higher pension ages require well-functioning student support. Therefore, the government is now presenting new opportunities to further train or retrain higher up in the ages. There should be more generous conditions for this within the study funding system. The upper limit for eligibility is increased by four years, from 56 to 60 years. In addition, we plan to increase the number of weeks, because today it is difficult for people who are in the middle of life and have already spent their study weeks getting additional weeks to reset or retrain. Additional weeks are now proposed for those over 40 years of age. There is no longer any need for a link with previous studies, and there will no longer be a need for a period of unemployment between them. If there is an education and a labour market, there are now new ways to study. These proposals form part of the January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. But it is also very important for us Social Democrats. The proposals will significantly increase the opportunities for people in the middle of life to study, change and continue lifelong learning. Madam President, I would like It is essential that we ensure the supply of skills throughout the country. We have successful colleges and universities around Sweden that have lifted entire regions and strengthened the opportunity to live and work in all parts of Sweden. However, it has not been obvious to all parties that there should be universities throughout Sweden. Nor has it been obvious that we should continue to expand the university with new educational opportunities throughout the country. We remember the Moderates who snuggled at the fact that universities would exist all over the country. For example, they did not want Mid Sweden School in Sundsvall and Östersund to become a university. The Moderates seem to think that knowledge will be worse if more people are allowed to partake of it. That is not the case, and I am proud to be involved in creating new educational opportunities throughout our country. This is what Göran Persson said when Mittuniversitetet was inaugurated: a university expansion... still today, a group of people in our country have to scornfully sneeze community schools and devaluation of the university concept. They're wrong. Knowledge is not a finite resource that we need to manage. It does not get worse or less worth for more people to share it. On the contrary. Knowledge grows when it is shared by more. That is my conviction. It is true to this day. Madam President, I would like Swedish companies and our welfare sector are currently looking with light and lantern for competent staff. We must see the entire population of our country as a resource, and we must create good conditions for education and training. Jobs are all over the country, and welfare needs to be where people live. I see that there is a need for more knowledgeable teachers for our schools, more nurses for hospitals, more nurses for elderly care and new policemen throughout the country, or else welfare will be compromised. We need competent staff in Uppsala, Uppvidinge, Arvidsjaur and Malmö, yes, throughout our country. Madam President, I would like I want all people in all parts of the world of work to have the opportunity for further education and training. This is particularly important for those who are far from the labour market and have a short basic education. I am therefore pleased that we still have the recruiting start-up aid. This will enable the unemployed to acquire the necessary training in the labour market. Let us remember that start-up support is also an important part of Swedish competence provision. Fifty per cent of those with start-up aid receive vocational training. Health care, children and leisure time are the most common educations, but 44 per cent of all those with study start-up support receive a lack of vocational education. That is how we continue to develop our society. We educate people so they can take jobs and continue to build our country strong. Here we differ from the right-wing Conservatives, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. They represent a right-wing conservatism that leaves the unemployed, the working class and the unprofitable far behind with exact precision. This is a way to build a country weaker, to increase polarisation and to increase tensions in society. That is not the way the government has chosen to go. With the help of the January Agreement, we can now continue to maintain a study aid and support system where everyone, regardless of their financial background, has the opportunity for new and better studies. We have the opportunity to continue to develop education and training throughout our country. This is how we build a stronger society and a safer Sweden.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-532	Madam President, I would like I have some questions for Matilda Ernkrans from her speech. On some points I could not quite understand what Matilda Ernkrans meant, for example when I heard that the Moderates would be against more people wanting to educate themselves, that we want to slow down and that we do not want to help the weak. One big concern that I now see in Sweden is that every fourth student who leaves the ninth grade does not have a complete grade and that 17 percent of the students who finish upper secondary school do not have a complete upper secondary school grade. Helping them is taking care of the weakest who need to enter the labour market. In the past, we have talked about the importance of having upper secondary education and, of course, primary education in order to make it easier for people to get a job. Post-secondary education is also important. We really want to help them get into the labour market. That a start-up grant would be the only thing that solves this is not true, we have come to the conclusion, because we still have a very high unemployment rate after the majority has been in control for five years now. However, the news we received today from the Ministry of Education is very positive, namely that the majority now want to take over some of the Moderates' conversion proposals that were previously rejected. We want to raise the age limit for taking student loans from 56 to 60 years, something we have been talking about for a very long time. We are also talking about several extra weeks of study, which we have also been talking about for a long time. The Moderates' proposal was to raise from 40 to 60 weeks. Now I heard that it was only with a few weeks it would increase, unclear how many. However, if the Social Democrats are prepared to take care of our proposals, they can also include that we want to improve the opportunity to study with children and increase the supplementary allowance from SEK 3 800 to 5 000 per month, as well as that we want to increase the grant to SEK 200 000 per calendar year so that you have the opportunity to work at the same time as studying. I hope, then, that the Social Democrats will now follow all our conversion proposals, because you have taken after half of them – which is, of course, very positive.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-538	Madam President, I would like Of course, I appreciate if there are more parties in the Swedish Parliament who are prepared to create a better opportunity to study in the middle of life. Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström can feel very calm and confident that there are other parties in the Swedish Parliament who have identified this as something that we need to develop in the Swedish study aid system. The Social Democrats are one of them, and there are also other parties such as the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Liberals – in a collaboration in the middle of Swedish politics – who say that this is where we will continue to develop our study funding and our study support. We are also able to do so, while being able to ensure that unemployed people, people from unskilled homes and the working class are given the opportunity to continue their education journey. We have an extremely strong respect for people's access to education and education – when they are young, when they are young adults and throughout their lives – so that they can feel that they are strong in the labour market. When things change around you, you shouldn't be alone and extradited. Whatever the background, you should know that there is an opportunity to retrain, further train and get a new job in the labour market. This is where the dividing line goes between the parties in the middle of Swedish politics and the bloc with which the Moderates increasingly align themselves, with Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats. This block removes precisely the labour market policy measures that go to the unemployed. It removes the start-up aid, which clearly goes to the unemployed, the working class or people from the unskilled homes. It is also clearly trying, in some sort of populist spirit, to pretend to be the giver of all good gifts. That's not true. You chose 20 billion in tax cuts instead of that.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-541	Madam President, I would like Matilda Ernkrans wisely avoids answering when it comes to the concern that one student out of the ninth grade does not have a full grade and that 17 percent of those out of high school do not have it either. We are talking here about students who need to enter the labour market but who find it difficult to do so because it takes upper secondary education and preferably post-secondary education to do so. I think the Moderates look after the weak and see who needs help, and it's early time you need help. Then you should have help later in life with competence development. I can feel a little more secure there because the Social Democrats and the accompanying parties have now obviously listened to our proposal for a change and want to implement some of it. It feels very positive. We have been pointing out for quite some time that there is a lot that needs to be done and that it needs to be done now – no long investigations; it should be done now. It is now that the whole labour market is changing. It is now that we see that many people need to change their education in order to remain in the labour market.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-544	Madam President, I would like We can only say that in 2009, when the Moderates had the prime minister's office, unemployment was well above 8%. Today it is down to about 61⁄2%. We have 100 000 more people in the labour force, a figure that has increased from 2014 to now. And unlike when the Moderates sat at the government, when the knowledge results in Swedish schools plummeted, we now see time and again in the PISA studies, where we are compared with other countries, that the knowledge results continue to increase in Swedish schools. That does not mean that we do not see the challenges we have. We will continue to work to strengthen equivalence, and we will continue to work to ensure that, regardless of economic background and wherever you are in life, you can move on to a job and stand strong in the Swedish labour market. The Social Democrats do.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-546	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity, now that the Government is doing us the honour of participating in the debate, to return to the debate on equality that I raised in my speech earlier. The Swedish Pension Agency's report Analysis of pension rights for children's years and studies from a gender perspective, which was developed in 2015, says that there are very effective ways to equalise the differences in pension levels for women and men. The most appropriate thing from the point of view of distribution policy, they say, is that the funds for study rights are used to increase children's rights by one year from today's four years to five years. In 2015, you were in government and received this investigation, Matilda Ernkrans. I assume you've discussed it in the government. I would like to know how you feel about the Pensions Agency's proposal, when it is this simple – actually by transferring from one account to another – that could make it better for women and make their pensions not lag behind so much. How does the feminist government view this?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-549	Madam President, I would like These are beautiful words from the Christian Democrats, but you do not really have a strong foundation to stand on, Gudrun Brunegård. It is not the Christian Democrats who have fought for women's opportunities to be strengthened in the labour market, women's opportunities to earn their own pension and women's opportunities to combine family and work. Rather, it is the opposite: Christian Democrats' hallmark is to tie women as hard as you can ever to stay in the home and take care of the children. I am among those who believe that the future lies in ensuring that both women and men take responsibility for home and family and that both women and men take responsibility for education, getting a job and making a living. I believe that is how we build a stronger society. Of course, we should do everything we can to strengthen women's opportunities for a good pension in various ways. For example, the government is now proposing a strengthening of basic protection for pensioners. We intend to continue to work on this. When it comes to the message to the country's students that this would be paid in full by removing the students' opportunities to earn their own pension, I wonder a little what reactions the Christian Democrats have met from the students. This happens at the same time as the Christian Democrats actually go forward here in the Riksdag and say that you should snatch 300 SEK a month from the students' finances. You are going forward as the most right-wing conservative party in this part of the budget, where you are going to remove the possibilities for our students to receive study grants that are the way that not least children from study-experienced homes, the children of the working class and the children of the unemployed, can enter and dare to take out student loans. You will also remove students' pension rights. What are you thinking?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-553	Madam President, I would like I work hard to get sticked up labels and politics that don't match reality. We believe that families have full competence to decide for themselves how they set up parental leave, for example. We do not think that we should be forced on different systems. But this is about the fact that the Pension Authority, which is an objective authority, has made careful calculations and has seen that pension rights play a very small role during the years of study in a life perspective. On the other hand, it would give women a significantly better pension if the corresponding amount were transferred from student pension rights to child rights years and if the number of years was increased from three to four. It's just as the Pensions Authority has written.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-555	Madam President, I would like Women should be entitled to a good pension. I continue to think that in any way I can commit myself to it. But in the same way I think our students deserve to have a good study time with good economics. It is only the Christian Democrats in this House who think that we should reduce the study grant to our students by 300 SEK per month. I wonder what the students think about that. I am also doubtful that it would be the students who would completely lose the right to earn their pension when they study in order to finance what the Christian Democrats are now again pulling a lance for, namely that women should be able to be at home with their children a little longer and earn a little more on it. I intend to be very careful about how to find the right balance in dealing with both of these things.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-556	Madam President, I would like Firstly, in this debate, I would like to point out what may seem to be self-evident. We all work with the purpose of putting the patient at the centre. Sometimes when you hear Swedish health care debate, it may seem that it has been forgotten. Not least, I think that the S-led government has sometimes forgotten this. We Moderates always put the patient first. This is a debate on expenditure. Billions of dollars in all honor, but it is always man who is most important. We have two pictures of Swedish healthcare. One is that it is usually of very high international medical quality, not least for diseases such as heart attacks, strokes and various cancer diagnoses. We are also at the forefront of the introduction of new medical technology. At the same time, we have the picture of one of Europe's worst countries with the longest healthcare queues. It is we, the United Kingdom and Ireland, who are at the bottom of this list. In addition, there is a lack of a national strategy for the new and hopeful for many patients regarding new diagnostics, artificial intelligence and new treatments and more powerful drugs such as precision medicine, immunotherapy, and cell and gene therapies within, among other things, cancer care. Care queues in specialist care have increased by 136 per cent since the Social Democrats took over government power in October 2014. You heard me right. There are figures showing that they have decreased slightly. But it is still far more than a doubling of the care queues. There has been a threefold increase in the queues for child and youth psychiatry, and now the cancer queues are also growing in a very worrying way. The waiting times in cancer care are thus increasing, despite a grand promise from the Social Democrats in the 2014 election campaign that everyone would receive their cancer treatment within four weeks of being diagnosed. It is a promise that one can say is far from being fulfilled, and it is going the wrong way. We commissioned Parliament's investigation service to look at what the cancer queues actually look like. Parliament's investigation service has made an account for us, where we were horrified to take note of the figures. Unfortunately, Madam President, the picture is clear. I will now share some of these figures with you. It may be some numbers, but I want you to think about the fact that behind every number there is a human being. It's a woman or a man who hasn't had his treatment on time. Six out of ten women with breast cancer do not get their surgery within the promised maximum waiting time. Five out of six men with prostate cancer do not receive their radiation treatment within the promised maximum waiting time. Six out of ten people with skin cancer do not receive their diagnosis within the promised maximum waiting period. Five out of six people with lung cancer do not start treatment within the promised maximum waiting time. Five out of ten people with colon cancer do not get their treatment start within the promised maximum waiting time. Five out of ten people with bladder cancer do not receive their first treatment in the form of surgery within the promised maximum waiting period. And seven out of ten people with kidney cancer do not get their surgery within the promised maximum waiting time. Words for this situation are hard to find. It is totally unacceptable. And I have to say that I am suffering with all those cancer patients – but also with their relatives – who have to wait unnecessarily for their cancer care. This is a matter that is really so serious that it is a matter of life or death. Madam President, I would like The Government took office in 2014 with the election promise to shorten queues in cancer care. Everyone would have their cancer care within four weeks. Now that we are going through and analysing this, it is quite clear that it is a far from fulfilled promise. I promise that as long as cancer queues and waiting times persist, we Moderates will demand, among other things, that the government ensure that special resources within the queue billions are set aside to reduce waiting times in cancer care. All patients who need cancer treatment should receive it within promised time. Among other things, we double the national investment in cancer care compared to the government from 500 million to over 1 billion SEK per year. The Moderates also double the effort we started with the joint M-KD state budget for child cancer care. We double it to SEK 120 million a year. It is, as many of you know, a matter of heart for me to invest in child cancer care to ensure that research is lifted up and that there is a coherent treatment chain and rehabilitation chain for our children who suffer from cancer. There should be psychiatric support, not only for the child but for the entire family affected, and a follow-up of the children who have survived the cancer. Happily, 85 percent survive today, rising from 80 to 85 percent in just five years. The Moderates invest more than SEK 1 billion more in Swedish health care than in the government. We are changing national policies so that more of the resources for healthcare and care are provided through general state grants and the number of targeted state grants is reduced at the same time. We do this in order to create more sustainable economic conditions, something the government said it wanted but where the result was rather weak. We find – and you will find if you look after – in our budget documents a much greater effort than the government does, although it may not be in our budget area. We put this trust in our regional politicians to be able to invest where it is most needed. I have chosen today to focus on the growing healthcare queues and the unjustified differences in Swedish cancer care. But there are many other areas. Finally, Madam President, we need not least to develop a national coordinated health promotion strategy. Preventive work must be given a much higher priority than it is today. It is not sustainable in the long term to reduce the key and important preventive and preventive health work. This applies not least to the effort against mental illness, where we also spend special resources on suicide prevention. The government should give a mandate to develop and implement a new Swedish model for healthcare. Meanwhile, the government continues to be passive, the Moderates begin long-term policy work. The situation is serious. I would like to conclude by saying, even though I am making a great deal of criticism today, that if I or any of us had played the role of Sweden's Minister for Social Affairs, I would have called for a discussion and discussion between the parties, because this is an incredibly important issue. I can promise that if such a call comes, the Moderates will participate and be constructive, as we are. All patients throughout the country have the right to treatment at the right time and of high quality. Something else we don't think is good enough. With this, I wish the President and all my comrades on the Social Committee a Merry Christmas.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-576	Madam President, I would like When you read the Moderate Budget, you see that the obvious starting point is diversity. In the world of Moderates, it is the same as handing over power to health care companies and insurance companies. You are also those who promote more and more private health insurance. Is it really talking about the patient first? I wonder. In the region where we are, Stockholm, 3 000 people went into heavy rain last weekend in protest against the huge cuts and the premonitions that have been laid precisely in the Stockholm region. And this is where the Moderates rule. I've been looking at the numbers for cancer care. The Swedish Cancer Society, among others, has been extremely angry at Stockholm because it has not been able to achieve the goals that the Swedish Cancer Society points out. But, Oops, it may have gotten better after you cut it down. Madam President, I would like Moderates' wording on health care highlights private care providers, online doctors, free care, and so on. With regard to the online doctors, it is a national failure that we have not made any progress in the regions. I dare say here in the speaker's chair that one may have to load the Swedish municipalities and regions for this. On the other hand, Madam President, there are very few wordings in M's budget about those who do the job in regional health care. I have a question for Camilla Waltersson Grönvall: How do you expect the conditions to be improved for those on the floor?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-582	Madam President, I would like It is always interesting to hear Karin Rågsjö discuss her favourite focus. It is Region Stockholm that usually is what she spends most of her time with, so also today. I had hoped that maybe we could lift the level a little bit and look out over the country to see what the situation looks like everywhere. This is a serious situation. Those of us who are opposition parties should find common ways of directing criticism and perhaps not as loading Swedish Municipalities and Regions as the government for a situation that has escalated quite forcefully. I would like to remind you that, since the government took office, the medical queues have more than doubled. Unfortunately, that is an undisputed fact. The BUP queues have more than tripled. In my speech, you were able to hear about the alarming way in which the cancer care queues are now running. Then there is reason to criticise the government, and I will be happy to listen to Karin Rågsjö's comments on the Government's representative's speech in a little while. Diversity is crucial to coping with the situation. If we had not had private performers, but everything had been in public hands, the situation would have looked much worse; I can assure Karin Rågsjö. My question back to Karin Rågsjö is: In what way should we cope with a situation where the queues look so miserable and where people wait in line for cancer care? What should we do if we abolish all private alternatives in the way that Karin Rågsjö seems to represent?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-588	Madam President, I would like Now I'm asking the Moderates about their politics. I will come back to the second in a later speech. The Moderates write in their budget: a lot of effort and effort to do what you can to take care of your health means that the person who really needs care can get it faster. In other words, you can use the clinics of private health care companies, which at the same time receive funds from the region to run care – funds that will also be sufficient for care for the rest of us. On the issue of public health, we can clearly see that the average life expectancy at the age of 30 and 65 is increasing for those of us who have good money at the bank and post-secondary education. But those who have backed off in terms of longevity are absolutely women of the working class. That is why I ask, Madam President: does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall think that those who die in the past have not taken their own responsibility for their health?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-592	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that it must never be the case that the wallet controls. We must have a health system that is equal to everyone, and it is not today. Therefore, we want to invest in, among other things, prevention, which is about everyone getting the best possible conditions, information and support. It can be about physiotherapy, and it can be about many other things – information about diet and more. You should be able to take care of yourself as well as possible. Some of us have better conditions for that, and others are worse off. That is why it is so important to invest in prevention – and to do so in the long term. In fact, when the public is unable to do this, people make other paths to health care. If the government focused on the main cause instead of, as at present, talking about the symptoms, private health insurance would not be a big discussion.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-595	Madam President, I would like There are several areas of welfare where the situation is very serious and has been so for a long time, and one of these areas we are debating here and now. It is an area that the government has largely failed to deal with, namely health care. This is therefore the case for Category 9. As we all know and as we have heard here, there are long queues in Swedish health care. People get very bad and even die. In addition, confidence in Swedish healthcare has decreased. This is mainly based on the fact that accessibility has been a downward spiral for many years. The care queues have thus been allowed to grow from year to year without responsible politicians having had any plan or answer to the question of how to reverse this negative development. What concerns me in particular is that the number of people in these chronically long care queues has increased dramatically over the last five years. I would say, Madam President, that the last five years are five years lost for Swedish health care in terms of how many people are suffering in these care queues. Now, in retrospect, we can see that the government has not been able to reverse the negative trend in queues. Instead, we have seen that the situation has worsened. If we go back to this summer, we can see that every third patient had waited longer than the 90 days of the guarantee for their treatment or surgery within specialist care. So we are talking about almost 140 000 patients with meat and blood, Madam President. They had waited longer than is permitted by the Health Act. This was the highest figure since it started measuring queues here in the country. Madam President, I would like Swedish cancer care is of high international quality, and we should all be very proud of that. This is largely due to the fact that we have a fantastic and well-trained staff who make magnificent contributions in many times difficult conditions. However, the fact that Swedish cancer care claims well in international comparisons is actually a small comfort to all those patients who do not receive treatment on time. A majority of all cancer patients do not receive treatment on time according to the standard course of care. It's really bad, because you should remember that every day counts for a cancer patient. What makes me even more worried, however, Madam President, is that developments are going in the wrong direction in terms of the availability of cancer care. Quite recent figures, which I also took out, show that the level of achievement of the standard course of care in cancer care has become worse and worse. Out of 31 cancer diagnoses in the standard course of care, the maximum waiting time target has remained unchanged for 6 cancer diagnoses. For as many as 19 cancer diagnoses, the achievement of the goal has become worse than in 2018. In other words, waiting times have increased for these patients. Of course, it should not be used unnecessarily, but for today's situation it is in fact justified. First of all, it is a disaster for individual patients and their families, but it is also a disaster for confidence in Swedish healthcare and in society at large. However, it would not have had to be like this, Madam President, because there is hope. If we only look out into Europe and in our Nordic neighbours we see that we have managed to shorten the healthcare queues and increase accessibility, not least in cancer care. Then, of course, we can do the same. It will of course require resources, Madam President, but above all it will require focused strategic work to remove these lines. Therefore, in our budget, we have proposed a completely new healthcare reform, which includes a battery of measures in several areas of healthcare where we have largely drawn inspiration from our Nordic neighbours – and mainly from Denmark. Denmark had similar problems with long-term care queues in the past, but it has managed to reverse the trend. This means meeting the time limit today. There is a maximum waiting time guarantee of 14 days, and all cancer patients receive treatment within this time frame. A couple of weeks ago, I was invited to the Danish Embassy, where we were discussing just how they managed to increase the availability of care and phase out the care queues. It was impressive to hear how well this was done. Madam President, I would like With our health care reform, we would introduce a completely new health guarantee, which we call patient rights guarantee. This guarantee has both life belt and braces – not as today's health guarantee, which I could actually call a clean paper product. It should be remembered that society always has a responsibility for its citizens and that that responsibility also means that society should in every way ensure that citizens receive rapid and safe healthcare that reduces their suffering. Unfortunately, that is not the case today, and that is something we want to change and fight for. That is why we are spending almost 41⁄2 billion more than the government in this important area. However, let us be very humble, Madam President, because we can only solve this together with the most important resource of care – the staff. Only by investing in them can we deal with some of these problems. It should be remembered that today's medical work is no longer a calling, as it may have been in the past. There are new demands on the employer to offer better working conditions. This may apply to the right to full-time or part-time work, but it is also about removing the shared tours and not least the shift service, which is devastating for the staff. The possibility of further training for staff is also important, so that they can develop in their professional role and thus increase their salary. We also want to give the health care staff the opportunity to avoid a withdrawal day in the event of special events, for example in the event of an outbreak of winter freckle disease, which is taking place at this particular time of year. This has already been started in some hospitals around the country, and we think that is a good thing. So there are no shortcuts if we are to cope with the future supply of skills in healthcare. In our budget, we are making a series of proposals for measures that would drastically improve the situation of health professionals, so that the health profession can become the dream profession it really is. Finally, health care is about people's lives and health in a way that we unfortunately do not live up to today. As I said earlier, a lot of people suffer in these chronically long care queues. That is, of course, unacceptable in our welfare country. With our proposals, I am absolutely convinced that we could reverse the negative trend in health care. Our aim is not really to shorten the queues, but our aim is to eliminate them altogether, as has been achieved in Denmark. We should not have any waiting times in healthcare that are not medically justified, and I am absolutely convinced that other countries can do the same. The best Christmas gift to the Swedish population might be just an accessible healthcare of the highest quality. I refer to our particular opinion.
i-B4RSGoP7RbkcyhTg27WEv7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Ramhorn, for your speech. I know that every game sometimes moves money between accounts. There may be reasons for spending money in different places. But I see that in your option you have proposed to move 40 million from help to new arrivals and asylum seekers in terms of mental health to help LGBT people in terms of mental health. Of course, both groups have great needs. I do not hesitate that more needs to be done for LGBT people. We are also examining such a request in committee. In the future, in spring, we will have to look at whether we can achieve greater agreement on this. What I ask myself is whether we know that we have succeeded in the money that has been invested. When moving money from an account, you want to know that the money that has been used has resulted in people having better mental health and that therefore you can make the transfer. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member what basis they have for removing the 40 million and for not giving that support to people who are new arrivals or asylum seekers. Is it really justified to lift that money away? The Christian Democrats do not take that view.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-612	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Acko Ankarberg Johansson! It is true that we are transferring 40 million from asylum seekers to LGBT people. But in total we are making an increase for all individuals of 600 million compared to the government budget. In order to see whether an operation is effective, it is always necessary to evaluate and report back. We have pointed out for many years that this is important. We also write in our budget about just reporting back and that one should be able to see that the money has had an effect. It's important.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-615	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I still wonder if there's a reason to take the money away. The opinion of the Christian Democrats is that the money is really needed. Very many, if not all, new arrivals and asylum seekers carry extremely difficult and traumatic experiences. I think it is important that, as part of integration, you get help with your health, both mental and physical health. If the 40 million are removed, there is a risk that this support cannot be as good as it should be in order to give people both good health and a good start in Sweden. It worries me because the Swedish democrats are so easy to remove them. Nor did I hear that there would be any evidence to show that the use of the money has been successful. Rather, you were insecure and instead move the money around to a new group. I would like to hear what basis there is for the money to be removed from a group that I perceive needs exactly that support.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-619	Madam President, I would like Thanks again for the question, Acko Ankarberg Johansson! It is not the case that the group to which Mr Ankarberg Johansson refers, asylum seekers, receives less money. We spend money on the entire population, 600 million more than the government does. But we do not want to direct them to new arrivals. We give the money to those in Sweden who live here. We think it's more fair.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-621	Madam President, I would like We have amazing cancer care in Sweden. We'll remember that. We have an extremely high level of survival compared to other countries, including in the case of children. We have problems in cancer care, but I do not think that one should always black out Swedish health care in rhetoric. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats always stand hand in hand with Swedish business, private companies and insurance companies. At the same time, you want to be the small, compact party that takes care of the smallest in society. The Swedish Democrats' budget states that private health insurance has resulted in a relief for the care queues in this region, for example. What study do the Swedish Democrats refer to in this regard, Madam President? All the studies that have been carried out indicate that those with private health insurance take precedence, regardless of the condition of those in the other sex. The Director of Health in Stockholm also confirms that patients from public health care are being pushed away. Madam President, I would like We're not gonna have that the american way. Timbro shouldn't control our welfare. The Swedish democrats always say they want to go back to the folk home. But how can the Swedish democrats always stand on the side of the rich, business and healthcare companies?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-627	Madam President, I would like There were several questions. But when it comes to the last, that we would be on the side of the rich, I do not know where Karin has got it. When it comes to health insurance, I do not think it would have helped not to have private companies in health care. I think it would make the queues even longer if we were to remove them. In the area of private health insurance, the law is clear about what applies: those with the greatest need for care should go first. Should it be the case that some private companies do not comply with this important principle, it should, of course, have consequences for them. However, it is important to find out whether this is really the case. You can't just refer to an article in the DN. You have to have more and better ground. When we had this debate in 2017, when the government presented a proposal on private health insurance, the government itself wrote in its proposal that it was not quite clear that there was an evasive effect but that it was suspected. Thus, there are no studies to confirm that there is an evasive effect.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-632	Madam President, I would like There are studies that point to this, for example in the United Kingdom. There are also more and more Witnesses. It is about doctors, the Swedish Medical Association and all types of staff who work in Stockholm, for example, but also throughout the country. DN has taken various samples. It is clear that there is a displacement effect. Madam President, I would like I have one last quick question. We will need about 580 000 people working in welfare, specifically in care for the elderly. It's about nurses, doctors and nurses. If you look in the rearview mirror you can see that we should be very grateful for the people who have come to Sweden from other countries and who are educated or educated here. How do the Swedish Democrats view this?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-634	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, a bill must be based on a proper foundation. You cannot simply refer to what different occupational groups say or to newspaper articles. With regard to the last issue of immigration and staff shortages, it is a wishful thought, not least from the Left Party, that immigration would remedy the shortage of health care staff. On the contrary, those with foreign background have more need of care than the native population. That's exactly what the pediatrician Mats Reimer wrote about in Today's Society a couple of weeks ago. It is most evident in dentistry and diabetes care. However, immigration has also led to increased needs in child health care. The wishful thinking, that it would help, is therefore not true.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-637	As I said, all Members shall always speak through the President. It's appreciated when it happens.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-638	Madam President, I would like We have an amazing health care in Sweden, and I want to protect it. The next year it will be about the war on welfare and who will govern it. Is it the market or politicians? Private health insurance has finally come up as a major media issue, which we think is good. It is clear precisely in the way we have warned against, namely that there is a queue system and a displacement effect that makes those who have private health insurance take precedence over private health care providers who also receive everyone else from, for example, the whole of Västra Götaland, Gothenburg or Stockholm. These are the private health care providers we are talking about. It is a huge problem if almost 700 000 people have private health insurance and get to take the lead with private carers. These are supposed to make sure that the sickest go first. The Left Party wants an accident commission on this to see if the Health Act is being rounded because of the private health insurance. In that case, it's a violation of the law. We want to know how much it costs regionally driven care because of the private carers who have agreements with the regions. We also want a requirement that private health care providers who have compensation from the regions should not be allowed to have insurance patients. It's not working. In that case, we must have a huge control device. Madam President, I would like We live in a country where politicians sell out welfare. According to their principal politicians in Stockholm, the Moderates want to abolish themselves. The market will take over. Private cancer clinics open for those with thick wallets. We live in a country where the Moderates also seem to want to open the door to private health insurance. Guess who in such a system is the easiest to receive care and who survives their cancer! We live in a country where the Christian Democrats, who want to profile themselves as the care party, say no to free mammography and say no to reforms that would have benefited them with thin wallets and short education. They control regions that cut down hugely, for example Stockholm and Västra Götaland. We live in a country where everyone's equal value is not the direct focus of the Swedish Democrats. As I said earlier in the debate, the Swedish Democrats are also best friends with the right and the business community. They think all these private initiatives are great. Then it is difficult to say that you represent some kind of folk home à la Per Albin Hansson. The Swedish Democrats don't fight for them with thin wallets. They always fight for the rich. You can easily check that out. Madam President, I would like We also live in a country where the government, the Centre Party and the Liberals have developed a budget that involves major cuts in welfare and health care. 18 out of 21 regions are to be cut back. 6 out of 10 municipalities make savings on elderly care. These are savings on those who built the country. Instead, these parties are investing in tax cuts. "Sjukast first" says in the portal clause for health care. Is that true of private health insurance and the increase in privatisation? We in the Left Party are also concerned about the 73-point programme that has been presented together with the Liberals and the Centers. It opens further doors for privatisation. To strengthen well-being, we spend almost 11 billion on this whole area and on the municipal side. We also raise general state grants to municipalities and regions that will go to elderly care, health care, social services and so on. There we put 20 billion more than the government until 2022. It should also be done to strengthen social services, which need resources for preventive work and work against men's violence against women, which is a social problem. Madam President, I would like All parties look forward to the queue billions that will solve everything. It's just like the Emperor's new clothes. The left chooses a different path. We take the same route as health care associations, medical associations and Kommunal. Good wages, good working conditions, participation, research and shorter working hours are needed. More resources will be needed. That's why we're going in with 2 billion more than the government. All in all, there will be 4 billion in the investment in staff in this area. It's not shame. The big question is, who will work in welfare? How do we get more people to work in elderly care and health care? We are proposing a long-term education reform, Madam President, to achieve this. We have an investment of SEK 50 billion over ten years. That is enough to train 30 000 nurses, teachers, nurses and sociologists. More people working in welfare is a must. The number of older people is estimated to nearly double by 2028. To ensure that all of you who are getting older will have a dignified old age, the Left has a special elderly package, which includes money for several nurses, training, resources for retirement homes, free security alarms and meeting places to counteract the enormous loneliness that exists within this group. These older ones were the ones who built the equal Sweden. They should not be given unequal conditions in the autumn of their age. The teeth are a class marker. The left wants a high cost cover of SEK 2 000 for the teeth, Madam President. Everyone should be able to smile without getting anxiety. This reform costs as much as RUT contributions. Please swallow: cleaning in Djursholm or a high cost protection for your teeth? Those who develop psychosis, those who are in a relapse of depression because they are bipolar and those who have lost their grip will receive care that equips them with good medication, conversations and help for self-help. Mental illness shall be treated as physical illness. Life-threatening conditions that can lead to suicide should be treated as acute physical conditions with immediate help. We must also have a first-line care that takes hold of those who need dialogue and support. Look at the sparsely populated areas of Västernorrland, Västerbotten, Norrbotten, Gotland and all over Sweden! We must have care that is equal, also geographically, that develops in different ways. Here we have gone in with extra support for precisely those counties and regions that are sparsely populated and need extra support to, for example, develop digital systems. As everyone is already aware, Madam President, we want to offer regular health examinations to those who do not themselves seek treatment. We cannot see the difference in health between those with good finances and those with thin wallets increasing. This happens all the time. We build the welfare together so that your mother can get a place in a nursing home, so that your daughter can get assistance so that she can have a life and not just survive, so that your brother who has mental problems can get good help, that you can get a birth that you think back on with gratitude and that you can get help with your cancer. All of this requires a well-being to be trusted. Then, Madam President, we cannot afford market experiments, tax cuts or private health insurance. We own the welfare together. We're not gonna sell it out, we're not gonna privatize it, we're not gonna get robbed.
i-Wf8fNFGztUztzAKYNDNypn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for a committed speech on the priorities of the Left Party! I was going to ask you a question from the point of view of social policy, which you partly touched upon. However, this is a proposal that you do not currently have in your draft budget. It's about Bostad first. It is a method that we know has evidence and works. Unlike today's method, this method provides help. It is even profitable, if you may call it that, because it costs less. Even if you do not include it as a budget line, I wonder if you would find an interest in Bostad being first in the whole country. Is it something that the Left Party thinks is important? It is very important for people to have their own home – that it is myself who gets to lock the door on the inside and get a home. Even if I have problems with my addiction or mental illness, I do not get put on a bare hill, but I get to have my home and continue to receive care and treatment for what I have. This is therefore a very important social policy issue, which may not occur very often in the debate. I would still like to ask the Left Party and Karin Rågsjö: Would there be any interest for you to give money in the future but above all to ensure that Bostad first exists throughout the country?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-661	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Ankarberg Johansson for a very good question. We rarely talk about social policy in this House. Perhaps we should have our own debate on that. We support Bostad first. The Left Party is in the process of a rather lavish social policy programme, which is soon to be completed. That is where we will promote this. It's an issue that's super important to the whole country. It is important that the municipalities start working on this basis. That you still depend on alcohol or drugs should not be an obstacle; you should have a place to live, a door to close and a life to build up. If you're homeless and addicted, you're cheese, all of it. We need to make better efforts for people who are dependent. It shows all the figures and all the investigations. Housing first is absolutely an issue that we support.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-664	Madam President, I would like Karin Rågsjö gave me an early Christmas present. If we become more parties that agree on this, it will mean a big change for a great many people. This is a group that almost never has the opportunity to join a demonstration plaque or even get a Facebook group together, because they live so vulnerable and have such difficult circumstances. Could we make sure to become more parties and get a majority for that would be a really good thing for Sweden. Thank you for that Christmas present, Karin Rågsjö!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-665	Madam President, I would like How wonderful it is to be able to give Christmas presents this early! On some issues, the Committee on Social Affairs has been very unanimous. It is, for example, parts of addiction care that we must continue to struggle with. As far as homelessness is concerned, it is a shame that we have the figures we have. There are 33 000 homeless people throughout Sweden. It is a super issue that I think we should highlight in a much better way.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-667	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for her speech. They're always just as committed. As usual, the Left Party is swinging against the private health care providers and private health care companies and sees them as by far the greatest threat to Swedish welfare. There really is a watershed in Swedish politics. The Center Party sees that the private health businessmen with the innovations and creativity that are there are actually something that we can use. We can develop well-being together instead. Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party also basically always say that they are on the staff's side. But what signals do you think you send to the staff who have chosen to work with a private employer or care provider? How do you think they receive the signals of your and the Left Party when, in constant attacks, you threaten to virtually disappear from the labour market?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-670	Madam President, I would like Sofia Nilsson! It is the system itself that we are against, not those who work in the system. It's about the benefits of welfare. Madam President, I would like I myself go to a health center owned by doctors as a cooperative. It's nothing weird. We still need to talk about profits in welfare. It's about so many billions that go off here and there and that don't end up in welfare, don't build up welfare. There are amazing private players. But the thing is that we cannot have a system that drains the economy in the way that the system of profits in welfare still does. I think it's amazing with today's opportunities to build up care. This applies, for example, to digitalisation and so on. But when it is outside the system and not in the health infrastructure, it will not be good for everyone. Profits in welfare are still a super topical problem. We can see this now with the incredible debate we are going to have on private health insurance. If 700 000 people have private health insurance and go to the private health centre, which also receives funds from the region to take care of all patients, there will be displacement effects. It goes without saying that this is the case. Madam President, I would like Then, too, we must equip our welfare financially. Now you have an agreement with the government. We do not think that this agreement is satisfactory when it comes to spending on welfare. It does not make the prosperity of the regions flourish. If 18 out of 21 regions believe that they have serious economic problems, we are on rather rocking ground.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-676	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for her answer. But I want to go back to the staff perspective one more time. Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party express that they are on the staff's side. One of the problems we see about both nurses and nurses is that we have a lack of that particular competence in welfare. One way to strengthen welfare is to ensure that more people will want to work in welfare. How do you think it will be when you want to limit and make more difficult for the private alternatives, which are actually additional employers for the staff to turn to and apply for a job? If more people can choose whether they want to work with a public or private health care provider, it is an opportunity to increase the attractiveness of the professions. How do you see that this development can help more people to seek out health professions?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-677	Madam President, I would like We have a lot of contacts with different trade unions and with people on the floor. It is never anyone who has in any way questioned the Left Party's commitment to health workers. We have various proposals, for example EUR 4 billion per year for health professionals. We think that is an important issue. It's the staff doing the job, isn't it? A big question is also who should work in welfare. We have developed a super package of 50 billion over ten years that is enough to train 30 000 nurses, nurses and socionomists to strengthen welfare. I think that the Left Party is one of the parties that constantly promotes the situation of staff, Madam President. We see people demonstrating on the streets because of the conditions in the region. They are health workers, municipal, doctors, nurses and nurses. Then you also have to think about whether there is no need for more money.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-681	The President very much appreciates it when Members speak through the President. That's what we all do.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-682	Madam President, I would like We appreciate the fact that the President is keeping an eye on us. I too would like to join those who think it is wonderful that it is not possible to mistake that Karin Rågsjö is passionate about the issues we are working on. It's a great committee to work in. I feel that we are very passionate about these important issues. What, on the other hand, makes me as discouraged as always is the tremendous desire to always look at the moderate-controlled regions. I would like to point out that the regions in Sweden with the shortest waiting periods are Stockholm and Halland, that is, the two regions where Moderates with alliance parties have ruled absolutely the longest. The national health guarantee is met in 93% of cases. The national section is 81. This is due, among other things, to the fact that Region Stockholm has a sharper regional health guarantee limit, 30 days, which drives the development towards shorter waiting periods. However, it is also likely to have to do with the presence of more independent care providers, which means that the sick are more likely to enter the care system and receive both diagnosis and treatment in the past. The waiting position for surgery and treatment is also at the top of a national comparison – 88 percent compared to 73. There is the health guarantee limit 90 days, as Karin Rågsjö well knows. I would really like to point out that things are different in the country, but when it comes to time spent on care and waiting times, it looks somewhat more positive in the moderate-controlled regions. In what way does Karin Rågsjö believe that we will manage these enormous waiting times if we remove private health care providers?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-686	Madam President, I would like Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! I will try to answer these questions. When it comes to Stockholm, it may look very nice when surfing with your friends. But there are about 1,300 people who have been given notice in emergency hospitals. It is a backlash of 1.2 – 1.3 billion – no, last time I looked I actually think there was 2 billion back in this region. Then something's gone wrong, hasn't it? When it comes to the choice of care in Stockholm, it has gone completely out of control. That's what many doctors say. That's what the profession says. It doesn't look like that in the Stockholm region. Now I sound like I was just sitting here looking out, but I'm also going around a lot in the country. Halland, on the other hand, is a region that seems to work well, I think. I'll take a look at that one at some point. Madam President, I would like We are not against private initiatives. We're not gonna shut them down. It is not East Germany that comes trampling. We would like private initiatives. It's okay. But they shouldn't cash in the profits from taxpayers the way they do. Then we are talking about the big companies, Aleris, Attendo and the whole group that are limited companies. What should a limited liability company do? You don't have to go to the School of Economics to understand that. It's supposed to take the profits home. Then what happens to the patient? What do you do to get more patients in? The private initiatives are great. We can look out over Sweden and see the private health insurances, which have also gone beyond control. If we had 50,000 such insurances, even the Left Party might not care. But if almost 700,000 people have it, we're in trouble.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-692	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin, for a continued committed speech. It was a little Christmas present with that there is still a relaxation and opening for private care providers. I have to say once again that diversity and freedom of choice are at the heart of us. I don't have to do that. What I find boring when I listen to Karin Rågsjö is that she does not see what it means to the patients. Not infrequently, it is also the innovation propensity of our private care providers, which benefits the entire care. What is the reason for private health insurance, which is Karin Rågsjö's new favourite subject? Yes, it is that public tax-funded care is not able to deliver. Then trade unions and Löf – Regional Mutual Insurance Companies – will acquire private health insurance. We need to get to the main problem. It is not private health insurance that people get, but it is the care queues. What do we do, Karin Rågsjö?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-696	Madam President, I would like The private health insurance is very special. The person who calls and, for example, has or has had cancer does not receive health insurance. If you're 70 years old, you're gonna have to pay a lot. It's for healthy people. Here's what I think we should do. I think we should equip regional care to the maximum, the care we have. The care we own together will be equipped to make it work. Then you have to take a look at the private insurance policies. It's going to be an accident. There must also be confidence in regional care. In the Stockholm region you have a politician who says: I will abolish myself and let the market take over. That makes sense. The whole of regional care is being equipped down to the knees, or rather to the ankles, Madam President. Then we stand there at last. You will then say, and the Moderates almost already say: Then there may be private health insurance across the board. Merry Christmas, everyone!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-699	Madam President, I would like Social services and their employees have a particularly important mission. There is every reason to highlight their work. It provides conditions for security and equal conditions. Social services are based on respect for people's self-determination and integrity. Because each person is unique and social services themselves are person-centred, experience and time are needed to listen to what each person needs and what support you can give to support the person. Moreover, the complexity of the work of social services increases as society changes. I am proud and happy about the work that social services do every day all year round in all municipalities. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have left their own budget option, but it did not win the approval of the House. That is why we have a specific opinion in the report, and we are not taking part in the decision on the allocation itself. In the Christian Democrats' budget options, we propose a greater investment in social services, including SEK 350 million for municipalities to strengthen the competence of social secretaries. We also propose SEK 200 million to improve the conditions for family homes, support homes and good men. Furthermore, we propose SEK 250 million in order to introduce the housing method first in all municipalities. Housing first is the method that has scientific support, and it works. Helsingborg municipality developed the method already in 2009. Social services employees then stated that the traditional step model – first you should be sober and behave yourself, then you get housing – did not work. Instead, Social Services developed Bostad first. It exists in more parts of the country, and it is successful. Property first is exactly what it sounds like. Bostaden first, then it becomes easier to take the other steps. Madam President, I would like Being able to have one's own home is important. Today there are people who for a long time have received support through personal assistance and have been able to live in their own home but who are now forced into housing solutions that they do not want. Different types of group housing remain as assistance deteriorates. There are many reasons why we Christian Democrats are resolutely pushing for the LSS to return to what the law was intended for. It's about being able to live your life like others, even if I have disabilities that make me need special support in certain situations. LSS is a law that has brought about a revolution. People have been given the opportunity to shape their own lives. That right must not be withdrawn. We fight for everyone's right to shape their own life. Our budget option therefore has the means to ensure that the so-called flat rate is listed so that it is able to cope with the agreed wage increases as well as where money is available so that basic needs as a whole justify assistance. Madam President, I would like Elderly care is a major part of public activity, and an important part. We Christian Democrats are therefore proposing 2 billion more to the municipalities in order to increase the continuity of staff in the care of the elderly. Constantly different people who come to provide help at home are neither good for the person who is to receive the help nor for the employees who provide the help. Staff must have time to build relationships, for continuity is required. Satisfied employees provide satisfied older people. The municipalities are free to decide how they use the 2 billion, but this should lead to good continuity. We believe that better working conditions for employees are one of the keys to an even better care for the elderly. Municipal care, especially in elderly care, accounts for about 25-30 per cent of total health care. It is therefore a significant part. Municipal health care, mobile care and primary care are the basis for a good close care. This applies both to year-long people and to those who have not yet reached that level. We Christian Democrats believe that this part needs to be expanded. It will look different depending on geography and other conditions. However, we need to establish the common national ambition to extend the good close care in the long term and to ensure that it is provided with resources so that it can actually be implemented. It cannot be the case that assignments are added to contracts or in other ways to operations without resources being added or other tasks being removed. We have now done it for far too long. We're giving new tasks without money. It affects employees and quality. Regions and municipalities therefore need to be given new funding to cope with this change. The new funds will be allocated to the activities, and into the units. That is 3 billion in this budget for the expansion of good close care. That money's going into the business. The Christian Democrats' budget option means 7 billion more than the government's budget for health care, LSS and social services. It is money that is needed to meet the welfare promise. We have prioritised welfare; that is why we have 7 billion more than the government in our option. I would like to conclude my speech in the budget debate by thanking all my colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs for an exciting autumn. It's always fun to go to the committee. Thanks also to all staff at the committee office who support us in the work and in a service-oriented and knowledgeable way ensure that we have good conditions. Thank you for that, and a Merry Christmas, everyone!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-711	Madam President, I would like In the Christian Democrats' budget, the words queue billions and performance measures are constantly coming back. The whole point is that the staff should run a little faster, and today we know that the health professionals are already on their knees. Madam President, I would like What major efforts does the KD really want to make on the staff in addition to precisely the cue billion, which I do not think is aimed at the staff, but only makes it run faster? In the case of free medicines against which KD is opposed, children were favored from families with poorer economics and short education. The reform was for them. The National Board of Health and Welfare's evaluation has shown that it has worked well. Madam President, I would like Does the KD have problems with such reforms? Another reform against which the KD is opposed, Madam President, is free mammography. About half of all breast cancer cases are detected in screening by mammography. The Cancer Society and the Breast Cancer Association advocate free mammography. Women with short education, low economics or foreign origin represent the majority of the more than 150 000 people who never showed up in the mammography surveys. Madam President, I would like It is possible to combine free mammography with measures for women with, for example, dense breasts, which are a risk group for cancer. Why is the KD, Madam President, against free mammography?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-715	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for the questions. We're not against free mammography at all. We're in favour of mammography and screening to reach everyone. But we have seen that it is really only Stockholm that has had free mammography for a long time, and it has then been combined with efforts, i.e. reaching out to risk groups and broadening the information. That is where we have seen a good result. Most other regions say that it is rather the case that patients do not visit because they do not have to pay anything. Then we have not achieved the purpose of everything. That is why we have chosen to add the money for mammography and medicines for children to the general support for regions and municipalities, so they can choose whether to use the money for a free opportunity or for specific actions. We believe that it is better for the regions to decide for themselves. They will have to assess what it looks like in their region and what model to use to reach people in the best way. Then there was the question of queues and staff. If 2.9 billion is added to the queue billion – it is now several billion – this means that the regions get more money to hire staff. The problem is when they cannot do so, when they are not told in time how much money they have or if the money is durable. Therefore, the agreements signed between the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions are essential. How can you use the money that is given? We Christian Democrats want systems where we can say that these should go to primary care, for example, and we want to see primary care extended. Then you get the money. But how and in what way you do it, we cannot rule from the state. The government is bad at controlling that kind of thing. It must be decided regionally. That's why we're talking about performance, that it's visible that primary care is being expanded, but you decide exactly how it's done. Expanding primary care by 3 billion, coming next year, must mean more employees. If there are no more district nurses or more district doctors, it will be wrong.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-721	Madam President, I would like If you talk to the profession, the Medical Association, the Health Association and the Municipal, they are not overly fond of these queue billions. There will be a lot of performance to be measured – sticks, simply. That system is destructive. We are still against it, and we have chosen to add that money directly to the health workers. Breast cancer is a disease that more people survive today. There should be free breast cancer screening. That goes without saying. All types of studies show that it is good to promote screening. But there must also be other types of action. It can be outreach, website in several languages and so on. It is so important that women go to their studies so that they can act on time. It is also important to develop another type of study for women with dense breasts, for example. It's extremely important.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-724	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for your questions! They're anxious. We believe that the model for several of these groups is that the regions themselves have to decide how they use the money. When we want to invest in primary care or other areas, it is about a money and what can happen. But how the money is spent must be left to decide for yourself. We think it's better to decide that far out in the units. I will be very disappointed if the next primary care money disappears in projects. Then there will be no more employees. I want the money to reach out to the units, to fill up the care money, so they can hire more district nurses. Only then will we have improved primary care. How to use the money the Riksdag allocates is essential. They can be lost on projects or on strange detailed follow-ups that do not lead to more staff. There I agree completely with Karin Rågsjö.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-729	Madam President, I would like The Swedish tax-funded welfare is an enormous security for everyone who lives in Sweden. Knowing that I get help when I get sick regardless of the size of my wallet or any insurance is really worth protecting. In fact, we in Sweden have a care of the highest international grade, and we have excellent care results. In fact, Sweden is still one of the very best countries in the world to get old and sick in. We also have high results in measurements of patients' experiences of care. It's a position we're supposed to maintain. But of course there are also a lot of challenges that need to be met in order for us to continue to be in the top class. I feel, like Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, that there is a great consensus between almost all parties in the committee that the Swedish welfare model where you pay according to your ability and get as needed has strong support. We all want to put caretakers at the centre. With pride, both we politicians and others of our citizens tell us about our way of financing fair health care for all when we travel to other countries. Other countries are often impressed by the Swedish model and that everyone takes part in the care. We Social Democrats have been building this model for a long time and we will always continue to protect it. However, over the last decade, I think that there has been a gradual change when many of the citizens say that they do not really feel as much confidence in health care, although most people who actually receive care are satisfied. Medical staff are increasingly signaling that they are not enough. They are too few, and they experience stress of conscience in the sense that they cannot do enough. As a patient you sometimes feel that the care is not really connected and that one unit does not really know what the other unit is doing. It is difficult to see the same doctor and the same care team continuously. More and more people are saying to me that they do not believe that care is fair and given as needed, as it was before. These are serious signals. The fact that nearly 700 000 people get a private health insurance is a proof that you may not feel really confident that public health care will be sufficient when you need it. The significant increase in the use of online medical services is also a sign that healthcare may not function optimally. The obvious thing should be to turn to your own health centre and feel more secure there. I think we have a lot to learn from the online doctors. If digital care is both more cost-effective and better in some diagnoses, more and more people who want to be able to meet digital services themselves should be able to. Primary care should in most cases be the care the patient encounters first and should then be the spider in the network in the healthcare system. For this to be possible, primary care needs to be strengthened and developed. I look forward to carrying out a primary care reform, which I actually feel everyone in the committee thinks is necessary. The fragmentation of care choices in specialist care and LOV in Stockholm, for example, has made an already complex system even more difficult for patients. The most multisick elderly may not always have the capacity to pilot themselves through that system in order to obtain the best possible care. Moreover, the fact that there have now been indications that people with health insurance are taking precedence does not make things any easier. Nor should we forget that an increasing proportion of healthcare is provided by the municipalities. In my home region, we're approaching 30%. Here, many of the most multisick elderly are cared for, so it is extremely important that the municipal health care function well and in collaboration with the region. Madam President, I would like Karin Rågsjö usually says that we do not have a health care crisis but a staff crisis. She didn't say it this year, but I actually agree with her about it. We have excellently trained staff who do their best every day to deliver the healthcare we need. Regions must continue to work to become better employers and create a better working environment for employees. If this is to be possible, I cannot see that they need to be reduced – rather the opposite. But resources are needed to do so. That is why we continue to spend money on regions and municipalities. We started these additions last parliamentary term and are now continuing with further general additions. Today in the morning, the Minister of Social Affairs presented investments of SEK 4.7 billion to strengthen Swedish healthcare in 2020. It is about a new, updated queue billion, investment in cancer care, improved patient safety and increased accessibility to maternal health care and maternity care. The government will also set aside funds to introduce person-centred and coherent healthcare courses in new areas of disease. Madam President, I would like As I said, we Social Democrats always put welfare first. That is why I am pleased that, following a lengthy process, we were given a January agreement which will allow us to continue the work we started last parliamentary term. Today we are shooting at resources, and they are certainly both welcome and needed. But there's nothing to underscore that they won't be enough. I would like to express my thanks to our cooperation parties, the Centre Party and the Liberals, who have taken a constructive approach to a new way of working in Parliament, which is not easy every day. I look forward to continued good cooperation both with you and with the rest of the committee.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-745	Madam President, I would like We also debated the budget last year, of course, and then Kristina Nilsson asked me about the queue billions. At that time Kristina Nilsson was rather bothered by the queue billions and voted against it. Of course, I'm not going to ask if Kristina Nilsson now thinks the queue billion is very good. I understand that it is part of the 73-point program, and that must be the case. But an important part of the M- and KD budget was that the queue billions should be updated and revised so that a larger health course is included, not just the first visit. I noticed after today's press conference that the queue billion is not up to date in the sense that a larger part of the healthcare process is in place, so I would like to ask Kristina Nilsson when the revised and updated queue billions will be in place. It is essential that we not only measure the first visit. I think that Kristina Nilsson, in her speech, very well described the knowledge-intensive health care system. But how will employees get a chance to educate themselves, follow along and know about everything that happens if they do not receive continuous training? I believe that we need some form of statutory right to further training for all qualified staff so that we know that if we are qualified, we always have the right to quality training. I would therefore like to ask Kristina Nilsson if she is also interested in finding a form for this.
i-3PNQqvYawqawbVa6PpJNf9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ankarberg Johansson, for the questions! The embodiment in the form it had before was not one of my favorite reforms; I will not put that under control either. Now we have begun the change of queue billions to meet parts that it did not meet before. For example, we will include both new visits and primary care visits. The whole construction of the money has also been redone. As was the case in the past, those who passed the care guarantee were given access to the queue billions, and those who failed were given nothing at all. Now it is rigged in such a way that you are measured against yourself, that you improve yourself in your own region. Then, instead of strengthening the differences between the regions, the queue billions could possibly help to make up for them, as it did before. It is, of course, important that it be carried out with regard to the training of employees. I also think it is important that we are clear that it is the regions that have employer responsibility. It is the responsibility of the regions to ensure that the staff they have receive the continuous training they need to carry out their work in the best possible way. If this does not work, I think that we in committee can certainly discuss whether it needs to be changed in any way.
i-RKLzbmhLqzA5Sh3K3582xk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina Nilsson, for the answers! What the M- and KD budget decided about the queue billion was that it should be updated and get a larger part of the health care process. I have noticed that the small part of return visits is included, but I have also understood that it is difficult to find data on this. How are we gonna measure it? But it is important that the government parties have the ambition to improve the way in which care is carried out. This is of course what is interesting for the patient – not only to get to health care but also to get help with everything that is included. That's good to hear. Maybe next year I'll hear that the cue billion is really good. Who knows? It has been very active. It is the one who has shortened queues and made more people receive care, and I am glad that there is now a broad consensus on it. When it comes to continuing training, it is necessary that we take responsibility for the identification we have given to the staff. We have decided what requirements apply to the important professions in this area, and then the staff should be entitled to further training. I'll take it as a little Christmas present to sip on in the future.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-757	Madam President, I would like That short queues will be a priority for the government and the cooperation parties throughout this term of office, so I have absolutely the same hope and confidence that we will see this improved year by year. If the queue billions need to be further developed, I am convinced that the government, together with its partners, will resolve this issue. When it comes to the licence professions and further education and training, I have no other opinion than you, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, so please! I'll give you a little Christmas present.
i-HDVfziNoSzpJGMXBh6nvjU	That's nice. ) ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: Yes, everyone is kind– even if they use )
i-f2167bc368f80efe-761	Madam President, I would like A couple of weeks ago, I asked the Prime Minister a question about the long queues of care, but, as is usually the case with these Question Time sessions, I did not get a clear answer. That is why I am once again trying to put the question to Kristina Nilsson. In 2014, when the Social Democrats took over government responsibility, 12 per cent did not receive their surgery or treatment within the 90 days of the health guarantee. Now, five years later, the November survey shows that the figure has increased to 25 percent. As regards waiting times for women with cancer diseases, the situation is even more serious. As many as 60 percent of those affected by breast cancer do not get time according to the standard course of care. When it comes to cervical cancer, it is even worse – 85% of these women do not receive treatment on time. When you think that waiting times cannot get any worse, you can look at patients who suffer from bladder cancer. Hear and marvel! 91% of them do not receive treatment on time, according to the latest figures on waiting times in healthcare. This is, of course, unacceptable; I am sure we both think so. We all remember what the Prime Minister said in 2014. All cancer patients would receive their cancer treatment within four weeks. Now, five years later, we've got it in hand. The Prime Minister's promise was just empty words. My question is therefore: why have the necessary steps not been taken to reverse this trend when patients are suffering so badly and in some cases even dying? You've still had five years.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-767	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Ramhorn, who thinks I am better at answering questions than the Minister of State – it was nice to hear! Of course, it's not okay that we have the care lines we have. However, I would like to take this opportunity to say that in the case of specialist visits, for example, 83% of the cases are covered by the health guarantee. In the case of on-time surgery, the figure is 76 percent. In primary care, the figure is 77%, and when it comes to getting an appointment on the phone, it is 87%. This, of course, is not good enough. We can never be satisfied as long as these figures are not 100%; that is quite obvious. That is also why the government and the cooperation parties have said that it is a very high priority to ensure that the care queues are put in order. I absolutely agree that this is not acceptable. Per Ramhorn could hear me say in my speech that Karin Rågsjö usually says that it is not really a health care crisis but a skills crisis. I would argue that part of this problem is that you do not have access to staff – and to the right staff. This means that patients cannot be received on time. It is therefore extremely important that we ensure that the regions have the opportunity to employ the staff they need. But there must also be people to hire. In my own region of Västernorrland you have recruitment problems in many places. Then it will be difficult to fulfill this.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-772	Madam President, I would like It is true that the achievement of the goal in the autumn has improved a little. This went SPR out a while ago. But when it comes to new visits in specialist care, it has become worse. I have a question for Kristina Nilsson. Does Kristina Nilsson think that during these five years the government has been successful in shortening waiting times? Kristina Nilsson said it was a priority. But I've been here nine years and I've heard this year after year. The turnaround we would all like to see has not come. Finally, I wonder what Kristina Nilsson would say to the 80 000 patients who are now in line for specialist care.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-775	Madam President, I would like To begin with the last question: I would like to say to those patients that, of course, we will do everything we can to bring about this development as soon as possible. We do not think that these waiting times are acceptable, but we must also understand that this is linked to the human resources crisis I was talking about. Then we can see that we have had bourgeois budgets for 9 out of 13 years. I think Mr Per Ramhorn could consider whether this might have affected this result. Finally, I would like to say that the Swedish Democrats present themselves as a party to ordinary people. They make points in proposing more money to municipalities and regions in their draft budgets. They want to strengthen health care and provide more money for pensioners. But in the end, you always vote for the Moderates' budget, where your bets are not included.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-778	Madam President, I would like I am quite concerned about the economic development of the regions. Nevertheless, 18 regions are expected to be in deficit, and 6 out of 10 municipalities will cut back on care for the elderly. It's an elderly care that's not so hoops, so to speak, even before the cut. Instead of an expansive policy in the area of health care, Madam President, focusing on, for example, the necessary staffing efforts, digitalisation, opening up closed care places, more robust addiction care, etcetera, there will be a reverse situation in the regions. To us, lowering the tax is subordinate. It must be a welfare that holds together that you invest in. Much is now being said, Madam President, about the transition within healthcare – from hospital care to primary care, near care. We all agree on this; it's great. But I think there's gonna be a little bit of a mistake in the process. Primary care and close proximity are in some places not quite equipped to receive all elderly and multisick people queuing in the emergency rooms. In addition, there is now a reduction to be made. The staff so badly needed by health services will not, I believe, be able to afford to employ with the shrinking economy. Many in the profession today say that patient safety is under threat. Madam President, I would like Does Kristina Nilsson believe that the transition will work in a situation of shrinking economics for health care?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-783	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the questions! There were a lot of people at once. I will begin by commenting on this with tax cuts. I assume Karin Rågsjö is thinking of the abolition of the military tax. That is not something that we Social Democrats would have come forward with if we had had our own majority and 50% in this House. Now we do not have it, but we can make deals with other parties. As a social democrat, it may be a bit awkward to do this, but I also think it is a bit interesting. For 20 years I have heard that the military tax is harmful to Sweden and that we will get more revenue to the state if it is removed. Let's try that hypothesis. If this is true, I have to apologize for 20 years of error. If this is not the case, let us have another discussion. With regard to the transition of primary care and health care in general, I just said in my speech that I do not believe that this addition of resources is in any way sufficient. I share Karin Rågsjö's concerns and also believe that we will need even more resources in view of demographic developments and that we, which is good, live longer and have more healthy years but also needs that increase in the last few years. There I share Karin Rågsjö's concerns. However, we Social Democrats will continue to give priority to welfare throughout the remainder of the term of office.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-787	Madam President, I would like I hope that the Social Democrats can influence their new friends The Center and Liberals to become more generous and release tax cuts. Who knows? The extremely strange thing about the redundancies and intentions at the moment, Madam President, is that they come at the same time as the need for recruitment in the public sector is enormous. If you count the retirements you need, I think I've read, 580 000 are recruited in welfare by 2026. The number of older people will almost double by 2028. The needs of the elderly, I believe, will be difficult to meet with cuts. In addition, today, Madam President, we have very effective medicines and treatments for cancer. The regions have already flagged because it is difficult to keep to the measure when it comes to paying for them. Madam President, I would like How can we meet increased needs with cuts?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-791	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that you cannot meet increased needs with redundancies and notice. That is why I said in my speech that we are spending a great deal of money, but that will not be enough. More will be needed, and we Social Democrats will always give priority to this.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-792	Madam President, I would like Since the start of the Red-Green Government, medical queues have more than doubled, as we know. The queues of child and youth psychiatry have more than tripled, and cancer queues are now growing alarmingly. At the same time, the bill list is crying out unsettlingly empty. It is by means of government proposals that we see what we want to do and what action we have. I am sure that, with the concerns we see before us, it is as embarrassing for social democrats and environmentalist MPs as it must be for the government that there is no full bill list. It may be that Kristina Nilsson now says that there should be a full focus on this. Let's hope it's true! We have been hoping for it for five years, and we know the results. In addition, there are major regional differences. Today, five out of six men with prostate cancer do not receive radiation treatment within promised waiting times. But there is also a big difference among women with breast cancer, for example. In Östergötland, eight out of ten women do not receive their surgery within the promised maximum waiting time. In Kronoberg, however, it is precisely eight out of ten who get their operation within the promised maximum waiting time. I would like to say that the major regional differences are one of our major concerns. It is about life and death depending on where in Sweden you live. In what way does Kristina Nilsson see that we can face the regional differences?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-797	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for the questions! As far as the bill list is concerned, I am not embarrassed at all that it has not been so well-filled so far. We had to start this parliamentary term with a bourgeois budget, just like the previous parliamentary term. In addition, we have new parties with which we cooperate, and cooperation must take time and develop. Hopefully we will be able to influence each other, and then not only as Karin Rågsjö said, that we should influence that you provide more resources. I think we should influence each other, because then I think we will achieve the best results. You do that if you listen to each other's suggestions and not just think that your own solution is always the absolute best. As far as the major regional differences are concerned, I believe that we in the committee agree that we do not want that. We want equal health care. I would like to know what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall wants to do more, other than doing this cue billion. There must be many other things that she thinks we are missing in the cooperation that we have now. I would also like to know why you should have a private health insurance insurance if it is not to lead to you getting ahead of the queue. So what's the point of it?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-801	Madam President, I would like I tend to hold Kristina Nilsson high because she does not engage in pamphlet politics in the same way as her minister, but today I am clearly disappointed. Yes, there are plenty of suggestions in Moderate motion that Kristina Nilsson can take part of. But now the question is addressed to Kristina Nilsson, and then it becomes a little weak when a government representative has no answers to the questions I ask. Private health insurance, I'm sure we'll discuss more here. But I just heard Kristina Nilsson say in her main speech that when public health services are unable to deliver other things arise. It was a criticism addressed directly to his own minister. I would like to come back to my question: do we need special efforts to tackle regional disparities?
i-f2167bc368f80efe-805	Madam President, I would like I think it is extremely important that the cue billion, the form of which we have changed so that it looks in a completely different way from before, will help to level out the differences. Then it sounds at Camilla Waltersson Grönvall as if everything has gotten worse during these years. There is also a lot that has actually improved. What I think we need to work on to make up for the differences is to remedy the human resources crisis that actually exists in health care. It is difficult for a region to be equal to other regions where it is easier to recruit. In my own primary care, we have 50 percent relay doctors. Of course, it is not as easy in that region to deliver primary care with continuity in the same way as there are more opportunities to recruit permanent staff. I hope we can agree that what we need to invest in is staff.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-809	Madam President, I would like Last week I attended an international conference on health care for the future. It was a conference focusing on how we can develop and improve the quality of healthcare with the patient in the centre – a very inspiring and educational week that gave me new knowledge and new insights and thoughts. An interesting aspect that I have considered a lot since I came home is how other countries view Sweden when it comes to health care. In the eyes of many other countries, we are a pioneer country in many ways. The picture that we ourselves often paint does not really match the picture that others have. During the week in the United States I often heard the comment: If only we could be a bit more like Sweden! Such a comment actually makes you very proud. We are really at the forefront in many areas. Especially the clinical medical outcomes are world class. And we have systems such as maternal health care and child health care that lay the foundation for good health throughout life. I think it is useful to sometimes zoom out a little and remind ourselves that in many ways we actually have a well-functioning health care and that we are a pioneer country to which many travel to be inspired and taught. I think it is particularly important to remind you of this when the emergency alarms are brewing closely in the media. However, despite the fact that in some areas we have world-class healthcare, we have major challenges that we need to address in the best way. Not least, we have a lot to do in terms of trust and accessibility. Around Sweden we see and hear testimony about how everything is not right in the welfare. And we see how many of Sweden's municipalities and regions are wrestling with the economy, especially in health care. We should be aware that the part of the budget that we are debating here today is only a small part of the total welfare produced. The great daily work and effort in welfare is done out in our municipalities and regions by public and private actors. Meeting this economic challenge requires action and determination. The Center Party is prepared to take responsibility and push for more money to be spent on regions and municipalities throughout its term of office. Prior to the budget work on Category 9, the Center Party has taken the starting point in our exercise A safe and accessible care throughout the country with the individual in focus. That is where we are striving, and that is where we must go if we are to strengthen confidence in prosperity again. You should be able to trust that the care is there when you need it most. There's nothing worse to worry about than when a loved one gets sick. The powerlessness when the situation is acute, but all you are faced with is more waiting and new questions can ruin life. It is unacceptable that in recent years Sweden has allowed the queues for care to grow. Today, almost 130 000 people are in line for an operation or other action, and more than a third of them have been waiting for more than 90 days. That is why the Center Party has made sure that a targeted investment, i.e. the cue billion, of 2.9 billion has been made precisely to shorten the queues. But it is not only within ordinary care that queues have been allowed to grow. In children's and young people's psychiatry, only Region Gotland can handle the care guarantee. We cannot continue to do so, especially when we see an increase in mental illness among children and young people. The proportion of girls and boys aged 13 to 15 reporting sleep difficulties, depression and other psychosomatic symptoms has doubled since the mid-1980s. Despite the fact that there is a great deal of knowledge about this, many children and young people are being squeezed as a result of a lack of care. The Center Party, together with the Liberals and the Government, has therefore in the January agreement pushed forward proposals to investigate a coherent form of care for children and young people. But this is far from the only reinforcement needed. The trend of long queues for child and youth psychiatry must be broken as soon as possible. In the queue billions for 2020 we have therefore earmarked 380 million for short queues to BUP. In addition, the Center Party in the budget has pushed for an additional 300 million for children's and young people's psychiatry. This means that more than 600 million this year will be devoted precisely to efforts on child and youth psychiatry. The second major challenge we see is the lack of staff. Every day nurses, nurses, and other nursing staff perform miracles for the sick and injured and their relatives. Thank you for it can't be stress, burnout and fewer colleagues. There must be plenty of staff, more career paths and the possibility of higher wages. Especially alarming is the lack of specialist nurses. Madam President, I would like It takes an average of 19 years for a specialist nurse to earn her own education. That's way too long. In a situation where care is in great need of trained staff, not least specialist nurses, who are able to stay and drive the development of health care, we need to do more. This is why we have received an investment of 100 million for the possibility of paid further training for specialist nurses and another 100 million for career services for nurses. Several regions, including Region Jönköping and Region Stockholm, have already taken responsibility for the introduction of career services that increase professional attention for specialist nurses. But this is just a start. The Center Party wants career paths to increase and career paths for nurses to become clearer. The third major challenge facing us is women's health and maternity care. Childbirth care has for many years had a strained situation with a lack of staff and continuity in the care chain for the woman in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. The safe and secure delivery of all women is a priority. The ongoing initiative, which contributes to strengthening maternity care and women's health care, will continue to cover 1 billion annually starting in 2020. In the next year's initiative, particular focus will be on a more coherent form of care with increased continuity for the person and her partner, from pregnancy to aftercare. The goal is for all women to have a fixed point in maternity care and preferably one and the same midwife who can be responsible for the coherent care. The fourth and final challenge that I choose to highlight in my speech concerns the elderly. I do not think there is any politician in this House or in this country who has missed the growing number of older people. The ageing population is accompanied by increased costs for municipalities in particular. As I began by saying, it is in the municipalities that a large part of the daily welfare efforts are taking place. For 2020, therefore, a large amount of support of 610 million is directed to municipalities to enable them, among other things, to make efforts to combat the loneliness of the elderly and to improve the quality of care for people with dementia. In addition, investment aid for older people's homes of 500 million will be invested. In addition, we have a new investment of SEK 200 million to work with digitalisation and e-health in elderly care. In total, the investment related to older people in the draft budget for the coming years will thus be SEK 1.3 billion. In the last part of my speech, Madam President, I would like to remind you once again that the budget that we are debating is only a small part of the core of great prosperity. Our role here in Parliament is to set the framework and goals. Let us create space in the system of innovation and creativity! Give trust to regions, municipalities and health care providers – everything to improve quality and drive welfare forward! This is how we create safe and accessible care with the patient in the centre.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-831	Madam President, I would like What is creating a society? I've thought about that sometimes. What builds a strong society? For me, the answer is that it's us humans. It is people who care about others, who make things that others might benefit from, who help each other and who also sometimes earn money from these things or from the help and who pay part of that money into the common, so that others can do their job of saving, supporting, nurturing and seeking new knowledge. Most importantly in a society, I think, is precisely the community, which means that we do not have to be alone when things get at their worst, most difficult for us. It is really, Madam President, what I think this budget, which I would like to call for today, is about. It is about 84 billion to distribute so that we will not be alone when it is at its most difficult. They should go to the expenditure that we wish did not exist, which we wish would not be necessary. Because none of us really want us to need car support. We do not want assistance to be needed. We don't want to need treatment on the State Department Board. We don't want to have to have broken teeth, be sick and be fragile. We don't want children to suffer. We don't want anyone to need a guide dog or an interpreter. We don't want to need more knowledge about sexual crimes, because we don't want them to exist. We don't want there to be differences in cancer care. But all of this is needed, and for many people it can be absolutely crucial — vital. Because sometimes our lives fail, Madam President. It can crack a little, or it can break completely. From time to time, when it happens to any of us, I am extremely grateful that we have a community in which we together reduce suffering and strengthen knowledge, independence and freedom. I think solidarity is a fine word, and I think security is a beautiful word. Solidarity and security together are a prerequisite, I believe, for freedom and opportunities for all of us throughout our lives, even when things do not go as we would have liked. With people all over the country giving up part of the money they have earned for the common treasury, we can create opportunities for greater influence over our own lives and for greater participation even for those who might not otherwise have been able to make their voices heard. It is about greater opportunities to be treated with respect, Madam President. It is about better care in time, about better care, about strengthened support for relatives, about children's rights, about good work environment and about more colleagues, which is really needed in many places. It is also about better wage developments. It should not mean a flat-line to choose to support others in their professional lives. This is about strengthening work on medicines. It is about strengthening work on new drugs that can determine someone's life, make it richer or actually be the difference between life and death. But it is also a question of ensuring that the medicines we use here do not cause people and animals to suffer elsewhere. The care that is crucial to us should not cause suffering to others elsewhere. It is also, of course, a matter of highly specialised care in order for the really, really difficult to be really good. All of this needs to be constantly strengthened. It's not always easy. We're fighting in here. We go behind closed doors and in front of open curtain, if every other. We'll do it our way. A lot of people contribute part of their salary, every month, year after year. Most grateful, I must say, I am to those who contribute hard work on days, evenings and weekends in order to create a greater knowledge, a better health and a better life for each of us, from the moment we are born, all the way to freedom, even the last day. And that's where I hope we'll be soon. The common safety net is nice, I think. I'd like to wish you all a really merry Christmas. Above all, I would like to wish a really happy Christmas to everyone out there who is not here today and hear us talk but who is actually contributing together to what we call the common safety net. Thank you very much.
i-f2167bc368f80efe-841	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Social Affairs' budget area is at the very end of the debate. But that does not mean that voters do not think it is the most important thing. In many measurements, it is precisely health, health and care that voters think is the most important question of elections. Perhaps it is because each of us is affected by all the decisions taken in this committee. Everyone needs medical care at some point, perhaps for easier ailments, perhaps to prevent premature death. We all know someone who is old and who needs a little extra care in the autumn of his age. We all hope that we will come there and then need this very care ourselves. Madam President, I would like Health care, health care and care are a complex web of different actors who make decisions and who carry out this healthcare, health care and care. We are investing EUR 84 billion in 2020 to ensure that healthcare, health and long-term care are as good as possible for everyone in our elongated country. One of the issues raised in the debate here today has been the problem of increasing queues. That is why we are investing four parties working together around the government now 3 billion in reducing queues in healthcare. Some of it is used to reduce queues in child psychiatry. We are spending half a billion on cancer care in order to make it faster to get help if you suffer from cancer. We are investing 1 billion in strengthening maternal and maternity care. We have all read about those who have nowhere to go for childbirth, and now we are correcting these problems. Madam President, I would like We live longer and are healthier. But this demographic change is also a challenge. As a whole, we need more care and care in life. We survive cancer, but we may live longer with chronic side effects and need care because of it. We are getting older and may need more care, for example if we need to live in a special home. All this boils down to the fact that we have to afford a welfare increase, the welfare increase that I believe everyone in our elongated country expects us to get with the development that is taking place. Then we have to think smarter, and we have to think new. We must work together internationally, and we must pool our resources. We also need to increase the state's income in different ways, while at the same time working proactively to ensure that as few people as possible are in healthcare. How do we do this? We are investing in public health by ensuring that people are vaccinated and by eradicating diseases. There is a fantastic example in the world where various cost-benefit analyses concluded that it was possible to eradicate smallpox. This meant that there was not to be a single little hearth anywhere in a jungle anywhere in the world. But they did it. This is how we must work together in the fantastic web of international multilateral organisations that we have. Another thing that is burning is antibiotic resistance. Here it is extremely important that we also work preventively and ensure that more people are not affected and killed because of antibiotic resistance. Last year, 33 000 people in the EU alone died because antibiotics no longer worked. Strama has told us that there is no way to develop new medicines that can stop this development. We must work on what we have, dig where we stand, prevent the development of antibiotic resistance and work to increase vaccination and controls that prevent one from suffering from various diseases. The primary care reform that the January Contract Parties are currently working on includes a very green initiative. This is the focus on prevention. We will push out the part of the care that is not the most specialised to primary care, which will also be given the task of working precisely with health prevention. It is something very important and very green. Madam President, I would like Let me think smarter and lift a small diamond that I have found and which in the flora of all the initiatives was presented just last week. It is a work in time with a focus on research and development in healthcare, health and welfare – life science. We know that one size doesn't fit everyone, or at least quite rarely fits everyone. In this area, there is something fantastic called precision medicine. Today, all, including children, are treated with adult medicines. In precision medicine, you can go one step further and find a medicine that suits you on the day you need it. This is something unique and something we must invest in. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a major exporter in the life science field. We have good reputation, and we can export our knowledge and technology. Here we can grow and win new land. We can attract companies to Sweden who want to research in our country, also from abroad. Brexit is actually giving us new opportunities. Companies that can no longer operate in the UK may be able to move here. Life science provides us with new tax revenues that we so badly need in order to make new investments in welfare. Madam President, I would like I happen to be last in this year's last debate before we're all going to Christmas break. In fact, one must be the President or Prime Minister to do so, but since I am the last one here, I still have to take the opportunity to wish everyone a really merry Christmas and a happy new year. I would like everyone to think about those who may be sitting alone, many older people and others, and who may not have a family to celebrate Christmas with. Give me a call! Invite! Open your home, you who can. And think of the children. Give the children a happy and joyful Christmas!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-860	Ladies and gentlemen! Although there are still some interpellation debates to be held tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the final vote of autumn has taken place. Soon the last argument for the autumn has been fired in this House and the President's stick has been thrown into the air for the last time this year. According to recent statistics, 169 interpellations have been answered so far in the autumn, and 17 more will be available before the week is over. Since the beginning of the Parliamentary Session, 616 written questions have been answered. During the general exercise, 3,313 free-standing exercises were received. A novelty this autumn was the European political debate between the party leaders held last month. I think the fears that an EU debate in this House would be – to borrow Askungen's words – boring and dreary were put to shame. For my part, I may not have thought it to be absolutely, absolutely wonderful, but it was, in any case, well-motivated and clarifying. The idea is that it will be annual, which seems reasonable to me. Another special event this autumn was that the Riksdag hosted the 71st session of the Nordic Council at the end of October. This was an event that included great preparation but was greatly appreciated by the participants. Just a few moments ago, the Riksdag Board decided on the Parliamentary Administration's operational plan for 2020. There is a wide range of concrete measures to be implemented in the coming year to implement the strategic plan for the mandate. I will give a few examples in a moment, but let me first express warm thanks to Parliament Director Ingvar Mattson and all the staff in the Swedish Parliament Administration for brilliant contributions in 2019. Thank you for everything you do every day for Sweden's most important democratic institution to function!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-866	Now I will give some short and Members-in-Office examples from the business plan. Work on establishing a platform for digital signing is ongoing, so that you Members in the future will be able to streamline your work through electronic signatures on various documents. We continue to develop information security work, physical security and fire protection in the Riksdag. I would like to mention the chamber app, which many of you are sure to take advantage of. Development work is also being carried out there to enable it to be tailored and adapted more to the needs of each member. Another small example of internal improvement work is the welcome meetings I have initiated to meet the Parliament's approximately 100 new members for the term of office, which will continue next year as well. It is interesting to take note of the impressions of members who come to Parliament with fresh eyes. We are trying to take care of the points made. Ladies and gentlemen! I have spoken several times in this House about my three key words for the term of office: democracy, the committees and the long-term perspective. Let me briefly mention something about each of these key words. As you know, speaking of democracy, we celebrate 100 years of Swedish democracy throughout the term of office. During the autumn we have noticed in several ways that 2019 is a brand year for municipal and regional democracy, as it has been a century since the first full democratic municipal and county elections took place in 1919. Among other things, a seminar was held here in Parliament in collaboration with SKR. The democracy anniversary also permeates much of our outgoing activities. The Vice-Presidents and I continue our tour to all counties to open the Riksdag's walking exhibition on the anniversary and to carry out seminars, meetings and study visits with democracy as a theme. During the autumn we have been in Värmland, Skåne, Dalarna and Uppsala County. This spring the tour will continue with Jönköping, Kalmar, Stockholm and Blekinge – keep an eye out! It is the entire Swedish Parliament that celebrates the whole of Sweden's democracy. I sometimes see the view that Parliament is so far away and that there is a great distance between the citizens and those in power here in Stockholm. I usually point out that it is actually wrong every time – the Riksdag has 349 members, who are all over the country. Then it happens by historical coincidence that the Riksdag meets right here, but that is only part of the work of the Members of Parliament. Much of the work is carried out in the country, i.e. the entire Swedish parliament actually exists throughout Sweden. I think we should be proud of this and also emphasise it as often as possible. The Youth Parliament, the Open House in the Riksdag and the Foreign Travel of the Speakers' Bureau are other examples of outreach, where the democracy anniversary is highlighted. The democracy anniversary web, commemoratingdemocracy.riksdagen.se, is constantly being expanded with new material. Several new themes are planned for the coming years. Let me once again give a news flash from the parliamentary board, which just a moment ago decided that the Parliament will resume its parliamentary democracy cooperation with one or more parliaments in either the EU's Eastern Partnership or the Western Balkans. If we celebrate 100 years of democracy in Parliament, it seems reasonable that we should also help other countries to build up their democratic institutions, especially their parliaments. I would like to take this opportunity to invite you, too, to share knowledge about the breakthrough of democracy and how democracy works today, on the basis of the democratic anniversary. On the ntranet there are presentations and other materials that you are warmly welcome to use. One goal among many is for all high school students during their term of office to take part in our school magazine on the democracy anniversary. If you have high school students or social education teachers in your vicinity, please ask if they have seen the school magazine. If they don't, you know where it is. The committees are my second watchword. Not least in view of the complexity of the parliamentary situation, the work of the committees is of central importance for the smooth functioning of the work of the Riksdag. This places high demands on, among other things, the committees' bureaux. I am therefore pleased that the leadership development programme for committee chairmen has started. My ambition is also to continue to develop the work of the Conference of Presidents in order to increase the exchange of experience and benchmarking between committees. During the autumn, we discussed, among other things, the EU work of the committees and foreign travel. This spring, for example, we will discuss the work of the committees on research and future issues as well as monitoring and evaluation. Sometimes it is about striving for more uniform forms of work, sometimes about learning and being inspired by each other. The long-term approach, thirdly, is to look back at the same time to take care of and pay attention to Parliament's long history and look forward to trying to anticipate the needs that Members may have in five years' time, ten years' time or even later. I would like in various ways to highlight, make available and bring to life the history of the Riksdag and, not least, the history of the people who worked in the Riksdag long before we ended up here. I sometimes think we're a little too bad at remembering those who have gone before us, because we're so focused on the present. An initiative that, on the other hand, is really about looking into the future is what is called the Parliament House of the Future, i.e. the renovation of all the buildings of the Riksdag that are going on and that will go some way into the 2030s. It is important to try to assess what needs the Riksdag will have for decades to come. The extensive renovation of the House of Members is part of this work. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me give the key words and remind you of the hard packages that I presented in my welcome speech in September in the shape of the President's pointers. Most of the kind admonitions I gave have led to improvements, and I would like to thank you all for that. However, the issue of local booking lives on, and it will be sent out e-mail at the beginning of January to remind you of certain important rules. I also welcome the fact that even more people are e-mailing their speeches in advance to the minutes.manus @ risten.se. It makes it much easier for our protocol notaries. And so I would like to mention that, for a number of reasons, visitors' groups in this House, consisting of more than 10 people, are not allowed. It is also an issue that has been raised in the autumn. Finally, let me comment on the fact that next year Parliament will participate in Total Defence Exercise 2020. The fact that the whole Parliament carries out an exercise of this kind is historic. It didn't even happen during the Cold War. The war delegation has been practicing, but not the whole House. On Thursday 5 March, the morning in this House will be devoted to the fact that the House is faced with a dramatic scenario, and the situation will then be dealt with. The summons was sent out some time ago, and about 200 of you have already responded. A renewed call will be sent out today, and I would be grateful if everyone could respond before Christmas. I assume, in all kindness, that everyone is prioritising this unique and important exercise, which has been placed on what is usually committee time precisely in order for all Members to be able to participate in this House this Thursday morning. Ladies and gentlemen! As President, you get to get involved in big issues, such as total defence, and on some minor issues. I am pleased to note that, for the first time, Parliament has a Christmas tree on Riksplan, and I had the pleasure of lighting its candles during a ceremony before the first Advent. Let me, therefore, last of all quote a poem called the Christmas Tree. It's not me who has scaled this time but Anna Maria Roos, who in the early 1900s wrote like this: The tree is so dark and green under shine and glitter. The star of Christmas, gentle and comfortable, at the top is sitting. Bloss and light gleam clearly in our house wonderfully. The tree is so dark and green under shine and glitter. With these words, I would like to wish all the members of parliament, all the employees of the Riksdag administration and all the members of the party chancellors a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year! Thanks for this semester!
i-f2167bc368f80efe-892	Mr President, I would like to First of all, on behalf of all Members, I would like to join in the words and thanks that the President has expressed to the staff of the Rigsdag administration. You guys are amazing! Few workplaces are so well-cleaned, have the level of service and patience offered by the R iksdagsförvaltningen. Just think of the help desk! And in how many places do you meet your husband already when you arrive in the morning someone who says, "Good morning" or "welcome" or wish you a nice evening" when you leave work late at the end of the working day? Of course, I would also like to thank the President and the Vice-Presidents of our Members. Without you, we would not have so much order in the debates and get so much done. You're the one holding the wheel here in Parliament. When we took Christmas leave last year we had had an election movement and a very strange autumn around government formation. We would not have had a government, but it was a budget. It was only on 16 January that the President was able to present a proposal to Parliament for a new government with representatives of the Social Democrats and the Environment Party. In some sense it has become political everyday again, but few parties seem to have really solid ground under their feet. There is a lack of confidence in the potential of politics among many citizens, important authorities are being questioned and serious crime is challenging, just to take a few examples. So there are many tasks ahead for the country's elected representatives. During the year when the 100th anniversary of democracy in the country has been recognised, there have been reasons and opportunities to spread knowledge to more people about how democracy works. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all of you Members and our guides, who, regardless of the anniversary, give thousands of young people and other visitors here in Parliament the opportunity to learn more about important institutions and the laws on which the country rests. But remember that it is not the forms that are the most crucial for the citizens, but the content and objectives of politics! Think a little bit about it during the Christmas holiday! Mr President, I would like to With some experience, I can say that everyone in this Chamber now wishes everything but long speeches. You are just worth a few days off with your loved ones or perhaps just a moment to yourselves. As I take up office as County Governor in Södermanland at the turn of the year, I would like to take the opportunity to welcome Members of Parliament to visit all kinds of visitors in one of the country's most beautiful and exciting counties. Finally, thank you for your cooperation. I'll see you later. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
