i-063b4aadc2cac783-24	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether Sweden as its own state intends to send election observers to Turkey and to call on other countries, particularly the EU Member States, to do the same. The interpellant has also asked me what I am going to do to persuade Turkey to release the opposition politicians from HDP, its leader Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekda, all mayors and elected politicians and other oppositional, academic and intellectual leaders who are in prison so that they can exercise their democratic rights. Mr Kakabaveh has also asked me what I intend to do to break the inhumane isolation to which Abdullah Öcalan is subjected. The interpellant has also asked me what I intend to do to persuade Turkey to conduct a democratic election worthy of its name. Mr Kakabaveh has also asked what I intend to do to bring Turkey to an end to its international crime: to occupy the city of Afrin in the province of Rojava in Syria. Finally, the interpellant has asked me what I intend to do in the UN and in the EU in order to persuade President Erdo中an and the Turkish regime to resume peace negotiations with the PKK. Of course, I share Amineh Kakabaveh's concern about developments in Turkey regarding respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It is crucial that the elections being held are free, fair and transparent. This also applies, of course, to the recent local elections in Turkey. Sweden has made a significant contribution to election observation efforts in Turkey, for example during the 2017 referendum and last year's parliamentary and presidential elections. This took place mainly within the framework of the efforts coordinated by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE. As regards the local elections of the weekend, the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe has conducted an election observation mission at the invitation of Turkey. Free opposition and free, independent and critically reviewing media are prerequisites for a pluralistic, democratic society. This is what the government continuously conveys to Turkish representatives in Stockholm, Ankara and other places where we meet. Within the framework of EU cooperation and in other international contexts, Sweden also highlights developments in Turkey regarding human rights, democracy and the rule of law. For Swedish foreign authorities in Turkey, the monitoring of trials, including imprisoned elected parliamentarians, journalists and academics, is an important part of diplomatic activities. These are examples of trials that have taken place against the two leaders of the opposition party HDP, Figen Yüksekda, and Selahattin Demirtaş. Sweden is also working for other countries to monitor trials to show solidarity and pay attention to these cases. We have called for their release in various contexts. As shown in the recent report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Turkey, the situation in Turkish prisons has worsened. The Council of Europe Committee on the Prevention of Torture, CPT, visited a number of Turkish prisons in 2016 and 2017, including high security institutions. The CPT noted acceptable standards but also deficiencies in the form of long-term isolation of those classified as high-security prisoners. In the UN Human Rights Council UPR, Sweden has called on Turkey to improve the situation in its prisons. Since the start of Turkey's military operation in Afrin province more than a year ago, the government has repeatedly criticised Turkey for its military action. International law must be respected, including human rights and international humanitarian law. It has been presented to representatives of the Turkish Government on several occasions at different levels, in the UN Security Council and through the EU. It is worrying that Turkey's relations with Kurdish groups are continuing to deteriorate. I often stress the importance of a renewed, credible and inclusive peace process in Turkey. This could lead to a positive development, not only for Turkey but for the region as a whole. We also express this in our talks with Turkish representatives, as well as within the EU and through the dialogues the EU has with Turkey.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-35	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I would also like to thank you for your solidarity and for raising these issues with regard to opposition politicians as well as the leaders and elected representatives of HDP. Last Sunday there were local elections in Turkey. Although the AKP lost power in the three major cities, the country is still governed by the despotic President Erdo an an. He has gathered all power, legislative, judicial and executive, into his own hands. Erdo attacks mostly the Kurds, the intellectuals and not least the women. He declared during the election campaign and before the local elections that he will not respect if the Kurds elect mayors of the Procurdian party HDP. Mr Erdo has even called for Kurds voting for HDP to leave Turkey. He has already fired 94 elected mayors with the support of a decree that came in September 2016. He also threatens to dismiss mayors elected in the local elections from HDP's lists and to replace them with AKPs, from his own party. On Erdo's orders, 50 of the deposed mayors are still in prison today. Among them is Gültan Ki ş anak known from the town of Diyarbakir. 21 of them have been sentenced to long prison sentences. Not only is the mayor affected by Erdo ans dictatorial fashions, hatred and anger. In 2018, 2,000 members of HDP were also arrested. According to reports from HDP, 500 of them are still under arrest. And 28 MPs for HDP are in prison. It is terrible and dictatorial if you think from the outside whether Turkey is a rule of law or not. Hundreds of thousands of people have lost their jobs. They've been locked behind bars. They are academics, civil servants, journalists, teachers, oppositionists and so on. For two and a half years, the former spokespersons of HDP, Selahattin Erdo and Figen Yüksekda My question to the Foreign Minister was and still is: will the Foreign Minister demand the release of the mayors, such as Gültan, and the former leaders of the HDP? It is important to raise these issues in various talks but also to publicly demand the release of these politically elected people. They didn't commit crimes. They have just as we have been elected and should have the right to speak in the speaker's seat. Currently, 5 000 political prisoners are on hunger strike in Turkey for their basic human rights. Three have recently died. I therefore also asked a question about the isolation of prisoners and in particular Abdullah Öcalan's situation in prison. Even here outside the Riksdag, the Kurds are on hunger strike. It is important that Turkey respects international conventions on the treatment of prisoners.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-43	Madam President, I would like We agree on that and that developments in today's Turkey are very worrying. It is good that there is broad agreement on this in both the Swedish Parliament and the EU. It is clear that we will be stronger if the EU has a united reaction, and if we want to support a change in the country, Sweden and the EU need to work on a broad front. Let me say something about the local elections, because many people's eyes were directed at Turkey for the weekend's local elections. We also recall the views expressed on the holding of the referendum in 2017 and the elections to Parliament and by the President in 2018. These comments were made by the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, Odihr. The playing field was very uneven, and it was difficult for voters to get impartial information about different options because it was a uniform and state-controlled media offering. Several of these conditions remained at the elections last Sunday, as was clear to see. Election observation efforts through the OSSE are an important part of our support for democracy. A prerequisite for Odihr to carry out an operation is an invitation from the country in question, but Turkey did not invite Odihr to observe the local elections. On the other hand, the Council of Europe Congress of Local and Regional Authorities was invited to observe the elections. The Congress carried out an operation consisting of 22 international observers, and they were present in the country from 27 March to 1 April. Since this was one of your questions, I thought it was important to tell you about it. Ten groups observed various polling stations around the country and then published preliminary data and conclusions on how the elections were conducted. The observers say that it is not only the practical implementation of the election day that determines whether elections are in accordance with the principles of the Council of Europe, but that compliance with these principles also requires a robust judiciary, freedom of expression and a pluralist media landscape, and that the state's efforts are not used to benefit only certain parties. Unfortunately, it is clear that Turkey cannot guarantee these fundamental democratic rights and principles. Our Embassy in Ankara has also followed the conduct of the local elections, and that is an important task for us, as well as following trials and so on. We have also supported, through aid, a campaign aimed at increasing voting turnout. The government has repeatedly clearly criticised the fact that opposition politicians in Turkey are still in prison. Our criticism relates not least to the situation of HDP's party leader. A prerequisite in pluralist and democratic societies is that parties and candidates are allowed to operate in accordance with their mandates and on equal terms. We have shown solidarity with the HDP leaders, not least through judicial supervision. Now we must continue to put pressure on Turkey to return to a peace process with Kurdish groups and to strengthen democratic tools such as free media and fair conditions for all parties.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-52	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yes, it is important that Sweden cooperates with other EU countries, such as Germany, which has been clear about Turkey, and France and others. A solution to the Kurdish question is a prerequisite for peace in the Middle East. Like the Palestinian people in the Palestinian conflict, the Kurdish people are under pressure and oppression by various states that do not even want them to exist. Freedom of expression, human rights and democracy are important for Sweden, which is a major humanitarian and feminist rule of law. Half of the Turkish population are women, and on 8 March Erdo中an shot at the women's march in Istanbul. When the women were going to speak, they put on a prayer eutrope to disturb them, and then they said that they were anti-Muslim women who demonstrated during a prayer eutrope and shot at them. From many different points of view, it is important to criticise Turkey and demand democracy and human rights. After all, Turkey is still a candidate country for the EU. The poor parts of Turkey are severely affected by the economic situation, not least the Kurdish areas, which are very economically disadvantaged. What do Kurdish youths do if they cannot go to school, if they are shot at and if they are denied their rights? Well, they go up into the mountains and take up weapons in Peshmerga and guerrillas. Turkey does not want this conflict to be resolved. Turkey has annexed Aphrin, a city and a people who from the beginning stood completely alone against Daish. Together with other groups they got rid of Daish throughout the region. But Erdo中an does not want the Kurds as his neighbour, but rather Daish, and therefore he threatens to attack with the military. Erdo中an and Turkey have repeatedly attacked Kurdistan and Iraq. Not long ago, villages were destroyed, and 20 people were murdered, some of whom were minors. Turkey does exactly what it wants in this region. That is why a vote is needed, and the voice of Sweden and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in particular is important. Unless the Kurdish issue comes up on the negotiating table, the Kurdish problem will never be resolved, either in Iraq, Syria, Turkey or Iran. If Turkey is not forced to enter the negotiating table, it will constantly inflate conflicts, where women and innocent people will have to pay. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs wish to bring together the governments of the EU in any way and raise the issue of the release of political prisoners, on the one hand, and the Kurdish question and the annexation of Syria, on the other?
i-063b4aadc2cac783-60	Madam President, I would like Let me say something about how Sweden engages. The government's commitment to Turkey concerns its entire population, and we intend to continue to speak with a wide range of actors in the country. We are concerned about the shrinking space that we see the opposition and civil society operating within. We have bilateral reform support for Turkey, and by doing so we want to contribute, above all, to a viable civil society in that country. The organisations that receive Swedish aid are active in areas such as human rights, not least freedom of expression, democracy promotion and gender equality. We are working for the EU to have a common and clear Turkey policy, and I believe that we are considered to be among the countries that are most active in this matter within the EU. We have been driven by clear EU statements within, for example, the OSSE and the Council of Europe, not least bearing on, for example, freedom of the media in Turkey. Freedom of expression, media freedom and press are prerequisites for a democratic society. Another prerequisite is that parties and candidates can carry out their political work and participate in elections on equal terms. Since the start of Turkey's military operation in Afrin, the government has repeatedly criticised Turkey for its military action. We have said this bilaterally on several occasions, including in the UN Security Council and in the EU. In the recent EU Council conclusions on Syria, we foreign ministers express clear criticism of the operation and concern about the humanitarian consequences. We also pay attention to the international legal dimension of Turkey's actions, and we stress that legal obligations must be respected. At the initiative of Sweden and Kuwait, the UN Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 2401 last year. There, the Council calls for a ceasefire throughout Syria to allow humanitarian access. We were clear that this also applies to Afrin, and we have expressed criticism when the resolution was not complied with. People who are forced to flee because of Turkey's military operation must be given the opportunity to return safely, voluntarily and with dignity. We have therefore taken it very seriously that rebel groups supported by Turkey have plundered the homes of refugees in Afrin, and we have condemned this. There is no military solution to the conflict in Syria. This applies whether we look at Turkey's actions in the Afrin province or at the conflict as a whole. The only way to end violence and bring about sustainable peace is through a UN-led political process. All such processes must include women, who make up half of the population there and in the rest of the world. There will be no lasting peace unless women are included.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-67	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your statement, Minister for Foreign Affairs. I know the Secretary of State is committed. I know that Sweden is a major humanitarian donor in different contexts. This gives a pride over Sweden in many ways. The problem is that Turkey is not listening, despite all the statements that the Foreign Minister has now made. Turkey does not want to listen. Turkey wants to continue with both military threats and to imprison even more elected politicians. It was close last night, for example, when you heard that you had lost the election. They did not want to accept that, and they did not even want to count tens of thousands of votes. But that does not help, because democracy must nevertheless prevail at some point. In Turkey's case, however, Mr Erdo中an unfortunately does not want that. He wants one-man rule in Turkey and says everyone else is Islamophobes. That is how he tries to present the whole of Europe, because that is something to be criticised. It is therefore important that Sweden takes the lead in ensuring that the EU together criticises even more strongly and calls for the release of political prisoners. I very much hope that the Foreign Minister will continue to do this when it comes to the isolation of political prisoners, including Mr Öcalan. Otherwise, people will be standing outside protesting, quite rightly. In Turkey's prisons, politicians are on hunger strike because of the situation there. International laws and standards are not respected. My expectation is that Sweden continues to push forward and condemns Turkey now.
i-9J7YoSacE7c2kJ2UAeQGSW	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Amineh Kakabaveh. We meet regularly in these debates, which are very much an expression of the frustration that we feel after often long periods of criticism and use of all our words, which we politicians have as a tool. Words mean something. We have our collaborations and all our platforms to make clear what we think and what demands we want to make, and yet we see that it is not moving in the direction we would like. Sometimes things go the wrong way. That is the political reality, and then we need to think about whether we need more political instruments. As far as the EU is concerned, it has been about the fact that we no longer have ongoing membership negotiations. This means that we can impose sanctions in certain cases vis-à-vis countries. We also have those kinds of tools. It should be absolutely clear to everyone that we take every opportunity to raise our messages with Turkish counterparts. We are doing this very actively through both the UN and the EU. We are also doing this on our own, and the government will continue to demand that international law and human rights be respected and that we live up to international conventions and show a human face. Amineh Kakabaveh can be absolutely convinced that we will continue this work with full force. Thank you for the debate.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-73	Madam President, I would like Amine h Kakabaveh has asked me whether I believe that Sweden should pursue a strong policy in the UN and in other international bodies for women's rights. The interpellant has also asked me whether Sweden should pursue a strong policy in the UN and the EU against oppression of honour, child and forced marriages and genital mutilation, and whether I intend to press for the UN to carry out an inventory and examine to what extent Member States' national legislation is in line with the UN Declaration on Human Rights and the UN Declarations on Women's and Children's Rights. It is now more than four years since the government launched a feminist foreign policy, with the aim of promoting women's and girls' rights, representation and resources. This means that all our foreign policy should have a gender perspective. We now see how more countries are inspired and imitated. Our work has led to greater attention being paid to the theme of women, peace and security within the UN, the EU and the OSSE. Our female mediation network is active in several regions and works for conflict resolution in more and more countries. For the first time in the history of the United Nations, we have a UN Secretary-General who calls himself a feminist. We can be proud of our commitment and of the results of our consistent work. Sweden has vigorously pushed forward in the fight against all forms of gender-based violence, both by pushing forward the issue within the UN and the EU and through cooperation with the International Criminal Court, the ICC. Combating gender-based violence is one of the key areas of the new global strategy for gender equality in development cooperation, which is funded with a total of SEK 1 billion over five years. Sweden also provides comprehensive support for sexual and reproductive health and rights. We fund, among other things, efforts for contraception, safe and legal abortion and sex education. Sweden also supports the UN organisations, including UN Women, UNFPA and UNICEF, which internationally and locally combat child and forced marriages, genital mutilation and honour repression. We are in favour of international frameworks and standards condemning these phenomena. We have also supported civil society organisations and other actors working against gender-based violence through support centres for vulnerable women, helpline lines, legal support for victims of violence in close relationships and work with perpetrators. The UN Human Rights Council plays an important role in monitoring and monitoring the enjoyment of human rights by women and girls. I raised this issue in particular in my speech at the 40th session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva in February this year. The Committee of the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, also known as Cedaw, is doing important work by examining the efforts of states to prevent discrimination against women. At the same time, much work remains to be done, as we all know here. We are now entering a new term of office with continued vigour in feminist foreign policy. We shall continue our work on women, peace and security and work to ensure that this issue receives even greater attention in organisations such as the UN, the EU and the OSSE. We continue our comprehensive support to the SRHR. We are going to work against human trafficking, and we are also going to spread even more experience of the Swedish Sex Purchase Act. Sweden's place as one of the most equal countries in the world is the result of political commitment and long-term work. In particular, civil society and women's movement organisations have an important role to play in this. Sweden will continue to be a beacon in the international struggle for the enjoyment of human rights by all women and girls.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-82	Madam President, I would like I thank Foreign Minister Wallström for a comprehensive report. Some of the efforts that Sweden has made are, of course, good, and that is a good report that the Minister for Foreign Affairs gives on what has been done. But from a Swedish point of view, it would almost be a scandal if Sweden did not do what has been done. The Minister for Foreign Affairs lists a number of international bodies where Sweden has been active. In fact, I asked a question and had a very concrete proposal that Sweden should require an inventory of which states have women's discrimination in law, despite what is stated in the UN Declaration on Human Rights and on women's and children's rights. Maybe it's a sensitive issue. But I would actually like to ask the question and make my proposal on inventory, although it may be a little lumpy and controversial. However, if you do not point to an error and do not specify your requirements, you will not be able to remedy this either. Why has our feminism in Sweden attracted so much attention? Well, that's because we've dared to criticize ourselves and question ourselves. We are also doing so today with the metoo and the efforts against the oppression of honour. Such demands point out those who discriminate against women in this way. They should be pointed out and actually shamed. I would even like to use a stronger expression, namely that they should actually be branded. It is gender apartheid in, for example, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somalia, Iran and many other countries, and women are discriminated against in legislation. These countries have the same voice in the UN as Sweden. My question is: will the Foreign Minister ensure that a Commission is set up to review the laws on this in these countries, where half the population – women and children – is discriminated against because they are women? In many countries, for example, millions of women and girls are sexually stifled annually, although this may not be included in the legislation. Some countries in Africa have begun to question this. But in many other countries they do not. It is a question of fear of the womb and the hymen, even though the hymen does not exist. But this is governed by states and their laws or unwritten laws. When you look at this more deeply, you think: How can it be that such countries where child marriages, forced marriages and genital mutilation exist, and which in 2019 have medieval legislation, have the same voice in the UN as Sweden and other democratic countries? An individual who actually has a spirit of democracy within him cannot accept the fact that millions of girls and women are sexually stymied, married away by forced marriages and much more. Women are even stoned because of extramarital conditions in countries that are in the UN. I think we should do something about this.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-88	Madam President, I would like The feminist foreign policy has meant a revolution in the same way as the Metoo movement, and they go hand in hand. It is, of course, about half the population that has been oppressed for so long, and it is about human rights. We must not forget that it is only about four years ago, in October 2014, that feminist foreign policy began. It's not really that long, but it feels like oceans of time because it's had such a big impact. It is not only about the fact that the Swedish government was the first government to have a feminist foreign policy, but it was also the first government to call itself a feminist government. This means not only that it is half women and half men in the government, but that the whole policy should be permeated by gender equality and that one should have a feminist perspective. The struggle has only just begun. We've been working for four years. But these are things that have been going on for hundreds or thousands of years, that is, structures that take a long time to change. Nevertheless, I think that after these four years we can see that a great deal has happened. Not least, you can see how this spreads and how more countries get their eyes on Sweden, most of them in a positive way. Then, of course, there are many conservative forces who see this as a threat. But seeing this as a threat only shows that we have succeeded in achieving this. Even when it comes to controversial issues that should not be controversial, such as women's right to decide over their own bodies and girls' right to decide over their own bodies, we have been very clear and come to the fore. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned, there is work in UN Women, for example, which specifically mentions genital mutilation. Honorful violence, forced marriages, child marriages and genital mutilation go hand in hand, so that women and girls are not allowed to decide over their own bodies and are not allowed to decide over their own lives. I think it is also important to emphasise that this must go hand in hand with other things. We see that where there is severe poverty, conflict, war and violence, the rights of girls and women come at the bottom. That is the priority right away. That is why the work on women's rights must go hand in hand with the fight against poverty, with peace work and with disarmament. That is also how we can ensure that rights are maintained. Otherwise there will be a backlash where women are affected. We can see that sexual violence is increasing in war and that it is also being used as a weapon, as the Foreign Minister brought to the attention of the world even when she had this special mission at the UN on sexual violence in conflict. Unfortunately, women also often become a commodity. You can see that when it comes to IS terrible slave trade. But one can also see that there is an increased risk of forced and child marriage. Of course, patriarchal structures are the main problem. But poverty reinforces the problem of women being used as a financial means. Sweden has actively contributed to the World Bank mapping 173 countries in relation to discrimination. This applies to women's rights as a clear discrimination. I think this is a good entrance that we should continue to work with. It is possible that you should have something else besides that. But it is important that we have this survey and follow up on how it goes, as Amineh Kakabaveh mentions.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-97	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh asks an important question: how do we follow up? How do we know how things develop? In response, I can say that Sweden is one of two countries in the world that makes extensive reports on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Last year we presented 135 reports, and we have continued this year. This year we have focused more geographically, but we will cover more and more eventually. Even through all the UN agencies that have just been tasked with monitoring, for example, women's and girls' rights and opportunities around the world, this survey is carried out. This is very detailed; the MR reports we do cover all these issues– in great detail, in fact. That is why it is easier for us to follow up through all our foreign authorities. We can hold discussions with civil society on how to work against genital mutilation or child marriage. I saw it myself, for example when I went to the Lake Chad region – to both Niger and Chad – to talk to representatives there. We have with us a series of facts and data that can be used in the dialogue with policy makers. It's very important. So I feel safe with what we do as an individual country. We are unique in the way we write human rights reports, but also in that of course we work both through the UN agencies and in the EU as well as in other contexts – not least in the Human Rights Council in Geneva and the regular reports and reviews that are made there – in order to follow this issue in all its details. Then it can also be said that the normative is also important. It really starts with the Declaration of Human Rights. The UN Charter, which is about to turn 75, states that one of the aims of the UN is to promote respect for human rights without discrimination between the sexes. The normative work to prevent the oppression of honour and child and forced marriages is absolutely central, and that is why we should of course continue both to uphold the norm and to follow it up very concretely not only in our own reports but also through all UN agencies. When you meet in the UN context, for example, as you did in New York recently to discuss the Beijing Platform or when you meet to talk about Agenda 2030 and so on, is an important part of being able to monitor how the countries live up to their ambitious commitments. The Committee on the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women is doing a very important job by examining the efforts of states to prevent discrimination against women, just as the World Bank has done with regular reports that discriminatory legislation still exists in a great many places, including on our own continent. So I can only agree with Amineh Kakabaveh's statement of reality and, of course, with the need to continue both the standard-setting work and the concrete country-by-country follow-up.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-104	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your statement, Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am absolutely sure that Sweden is doing a great deal and that the ambition of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Sweden is strong. We know that, but my question is: Okay, reports were written about 135 countries last year, but what has been achieved? Which countries with legislation that is barbaric and based on medieval laws were branded or were told that they, who sit in the UN under the same conditions as others, had to change their laws? Without it, this will continue. The report on sub-Saharan countries, where child marriage is common, states that the number of girls in Africa will increase from 275 million to 465 million by 2050. If nothing is done today, on the way there, this will increase. There are recent reports that 650 million women have been maimed or married when they were children. It is good to write reports on this barbaric treatment of women, but it must also be possible to use the reports. I believe that Sweden, as an individual country in the UN, should propose a conference on the issues of honour. Because it's important. I know that many countries in Europe know that there are problems with culture of honour; the problem is that there is also a weakness of hands. I personally believe that one of the reasons for this is that several of these states have a colonial past. Racism was part of colonial repression, and I would say that many politicians in Europe are guilty of their history. They do not want to appear as racists or cultural imperialists, and therefore they fall to little when it comes to women's and children's rights. In various cultures of the world, there is a deepening of patriarchal and religious oppression, and I believe that one must be able to point this out. If our feminist support to other countries, such as women's access to economic independence in order to be able to educate themselves, is hindered by laws and cultures, these governments must facilitate – as in other countries where laws have been facilitated and enacted. For example, if the legislation itself does not allow women to be independent, it will not work. My questions are therefore: will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take the initiative in taking stock, particularly with regard to countries with barbaric laws? Will Sweden take the initiative at the UN for a conference on the oppression of honour?
i-063b4aadc2cac783-110	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is important that the law prohibits violations of the human rights of girls and women, but that is not enough. For example, if we look at child marriage and genital mutilation, we see that it also exists in countries that have banned it. Often it is deeply culturally rooted; precisely when it comes to genital mutilation, for example, one cannot even say that it is religiously conditioned, but there are cultures that unfortunately lead to this being inherited. This means that the generation that has been subjected to it exposes the next one, and so it continues. It is clear that legislation helps – it is nevertheless the first step in setting the foot for what is allowed and what is not – but unfortunately this is widespread even in countries where it has been banned. I therefore believe that it is very important to provide assistance and support to those who are working towards this. Now we have this as an example, and then there are forced marriages and other forms of oppression. However, it has turned out that it can actually have an effect if a woman who is specially trained, such as a midwife, travels around the villages and teaches about the consequences of genital mutilation and that there is another way to go. We have examples that it can work. It does not happen overnight, it takes place in the long term. I think we have to do both. I believe that we need to put pressure on legislation, both at international level – that countries that violate human rights – and on domestic laws. But it is also about aid and other work that can undermine this in the longer term. I also think it is good to be self-critical as Sweden. After all, we belong to the countries that are considered to be the most advanced, but we shall critically examine our own country. I think that's important for us to be a role model. We can all do more, and that is what the fight is all about.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-114	Madam President, I would like First of all, I thank Hillevi Larsson, for part of what she said was the same as I wanted to say to Amineh Kakabaveh. I believe, as I said, that we share the analysis of reality and the description of the challenges around the world. Despite ambitious objectives and despite the fact that we have legal conventions and other things, there is far from equality around the world. Branding is not part of the diplomatic toolbox. We use all the data we have – for example, our foreign authorities use the MR reports we compile ourselves in our own country. How do you use them? For example, follow up. If you know that there is discriminatory legislation, you try to organise a dialogue with decision-makers to perhaps ensure that you share the experience we have. Perhaps, together with other Nordic countries, they are trying to create a dialogue and debate and ensure that there is someone who listens to the women and that they can express their own views. We also use our aid to compensate, because what about a large country like the United States? Should we also brand the United States, which persecutes women who want access to legal abortions? How should we view all those countries that have a long way to go or where we have even seen a decline in women's rights? We must remain committed to these countries. We compensate for a country like the United States having withdrawn its support for projects around the world related to sexual and reproductive health. We continue to make sure that this reality is slowly but surely changed. I have nothing against any of these themes – conferences in the UN context or what is now the best way. I am sure that this issue was also raised in the week that has just been in connection with the Committee on Women's Rights, Mr Cedaw. We will continue to work on these issues, both concretely and with the norm-making and political work, to ensure that there is a change. Taking away countries from their UN sites I don't think will help – it's rarely isolation helps. On the other hand, we shall continue to mark and speak up when we see that progress is turning into setbacks for women around the world. Unfortunately, this is the kind of development we have seen recently. Often it is autocrats – very self-violent political leaders – who begin their policy by ensuring that they control the appearance, dress or behavior of women in a way that moves us back in time. I think I have made myself known to dare to say what I think about some methods that have been used. I think it will also be appropriate for the next question to discuss what we can do. Here, countries that share the same view of the need for equality should come together and act together with a clear message about the need for equality and equality around the world.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-125	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that we are in agreement. These are important issues, and anyone who has a little humanity within them should actually act against the barbarism that children and women suffer in many parts of the world. I did not mean to take the right of veto entirely from countries. However, when such laws exist – as the first feminist Foreign Minister could point out – one might wonder why these countries should be present on the same terms. Some countries should be observers in the UN instead of having full membership. I believe that other methods should also be used. I know that repressive practices are not always good or tangible, but sometimes such practices can be used as a mark for half the population of many countries. Hundreds of millions of women, girls and children are subjected daily and annually to the worst of abuse. That is why I think it is time to move from quiet diplomacy to something tangible. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take up the proposal for an inventory and a conference at the UN on the countries where there are honourary repression, genital mutilation and child marriages. The problem lies in their legislation. I know the law doesn't change everything, but the law is an important protection.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-129	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh knows very well that if there is an area where we do not use quiet diplomacy, it is the very opposite. We have been bragging about a feminist foreign policy, and we have been clear about what this means: women and girls should enjoy the same rights, opportunities and obligations in a society as men. They shall have the same legal and human rights. They should be represented and have a voice wherever important decisions are made. In addition, resources should also be allocated to their needs. We continue to be loud, I would say. But it is clear: there would not be so many countries left in the UN if we were to exclude all those who we do not think are properly implementing gender equality as we would like. Then we'd be pretty few left. However, we will of course continue to follow up our reports through all our foreign authorities and through the organisations and platforms that we have to act. Amineh Kakabaveh can be absolutely convinced of this. Our place as one of the most equal countries is the result of long-term and systematic work, and we need to continue to convince other countries that they too will do this work. These themes are absolutely appropriate for a debate in the future. Not least, I saw myself in Chad and Niger the need to ensure that children's marriages are stopped. Anything that plagues and persecutes women and girls around the world, we have to deal with. Amineh Kakabaveh and others can be convinced that Sweden will continue to lead this work.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-133	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what I am doing for human rights lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh and other imprisoned women in Iran. Furthermore, Amineh Kakabaveh has asked how Sweden can support Nasrin Sotoudeh and other women human rights defenders in the country. She has also asked me whether I intend to call Iran's ambassador for talks on the situation of women in Iran. The judgment against Nasrin Sotoudeh is yet another example of how the Iranian regime does not respect the principles of the rule of law. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has therefore raised the Sotoudeh case in Stockholm during talks with senior Iranian high-level representatives, including the Iranian ambassador. The Swedish position has been expressed at several levels, including the highest official level, and this happened immediately after the verdict became known. I have also publicly said that I support the EU statement on this issue. The EU expects an immediate review of Nasrin Sotoudeh's judgment and Iran to ensure the protection of her right of appeal. Freedom of expression and association and assembly are cornerstones of the United Nations Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which Iran is a party and is expected to adhere. The human rights situation in Iran remains very poor. Sweden's position on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law is clear, and we have repeatedly criticised Iran for its shortcomings. This includes the application of the death penalty, which we condemn in all its forms. We will continue to have a clear dialogue with Iranian representatives on the situation in the country. Discrimination against women and girls is an example of issues that are regularly addressed in our dialogue with Iran. A concrete outcome of the dialogue is the bilateral Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation for increased female participation from February 2017. The agreement, which is followed up by the Swedish Institute, covers both the labour market and social life. Women's economic empowerment is an important part of the work on feminist foreign policy. Protecting, promoting and supporting a wide range of human rights defenders is another clear priority in Swedish foreign policy. The imprisonment of Nasrin Sotoudeh is just the latest of several signs of negative developments for human rights defenders in Iran. Through our embassy in Tehran, we participate in the joint EU démarche to the Iranian Foreign Ministry and the judiciary.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-140	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his report. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister has raised the issue in various contexts and has also called on the Iranian ambassador. Nasrin Sotoud eh is not alone. In the various countries of the world, women, lawyers, journalists and human rights activists have raised their voices. We must do the same. I did so during the Prime Minister's Question Time, and I do so now. In Iran, women have suffered for 40 years under Sharia laws and Islamic fundamentalist legislation that makes women invisible. The bodies of women are not owned by themselves, but by the state and the laws. Nasrin Sotoud eh's crime is not really a crime. In a rule of law, in a state with a little more human face, you can take off your veil and own your own body. Sotoudeh is accused of taking off her veil in prison, for example, because she represents women who have taken off the veil. She also put flowers in places where the police have aggressively arrested women. This is Sotoudeh's crime, according to Iran's law. For this, she has been given five years in 2016 and then in early March of this year a further 33 years – a total of 38 years in prison and 148 lashes for being a human rights lawyer and representing women. This should be openly condemned. Not only should a review be made here; we must demand the immediate release of Nasrin Sotoud eh! She spoke recently, I've seen on Youtube, with her son. She's the mother of two children and has a family. It is so terrible that one cannot hold back tears when one sees such a person become a symbol of the freedom that the people of Iran, especially the women, have been thirsting for for 40 years. For so long, there's been veiling in Iran. Of course Sweden will talk. Sure, Sweden will call in the ambassador. But Sweden also has a minister who has been at the embassy and congratulated Iran on the anniversary of 40 years of bloodbathing, murdering opponents and, not least, oppression of women. How can we congratulate a state on this? We also have, for example, Ahmadreza Djalali, whose wife and two children are waiting for his death here in Stockholm. Sweden should require the release of these persons from Iran. In addition to Nasrin Sotoudeh, we in this House have highlighted, for example, I smail Bakhshi, a worker activist from Haft Tepeh, who has been imprisoned six years for demanding wages for the workers. I believe that Iran is absolutely desperate in terms of the struggle of progressive feminists. There is nothing left but to give unacceptable and inhumane long prison sentences and whips to Nasrin Sotoudeh and many others. I hope we can demand her release.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-150	I would like to remind you that it is the spoken word that applies in this House. Displaying pictures throughout the speech is a borderline case.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-151	Madam President, I would like This is an alarming development in Iran. Amnesty International says that this is one of the worst judges in many years. You can interpret it as an attempt to silence an oppositional force. Unfortunately, the justice system in Iran is not right. I think it is particularly serious when you go after a peaceful activist and human rights defender. Her crime is that she has campaigned for women's right to dress as they want, which should be a matter of course in all the countries of the world. She has also campaigned against the death penalty, which should no longer exist in the world, and has reacted at all to the lack of human rights in Iran. This is, therefore, very much a political judgment, and she is a political prisoner. There is much criticism in Iran's judicial system. These are people who are convicted of crimes they committed when they were minors. It is about public executions, something that feels completely strange and terrible today. It is terrible that it has ever happened, but that it is happening in modern times is terrible. All of this is worrying. This judgment can be seen as a way of trying to put terror in others who are fighting for human rights, which is very serious. There have also been reactions from both Sweden and other countries. We have to try to push. It started very badly. A violent revolution in a country rarely ends well. Of course, extremism in all its forms is dangerous, regardless of whether religion or anything else is used as a pretext. Of course, a violent revolution, a dictatorship and oppression with religious extremism are not a good basis to stand on. Of course we should condemn what is happening now, but I also think that we will see it a little wider. Donald Trump now has a very tough line with Iran on the nuclear agreement. In this case, I wonder whether this is the right way forward, whether it really contributes to disarmament. With regard, for example, to disarmament and work for peace, fundamental issues relating to the existence of the whole world, I believe that we must also cooperate with countries which, unfortunately, violate democracy and human rights. Unfortunately, I believe that Trumps's decision has contributed in a negative direction. It'll be a more insecure world. As long as there is no sign that a country is breaking an agreement, I do not think there is any reason to terminate it. Where possible, dialogue also needs to be held with countries such as Iran. With regard to human rights violations, there is, of course, nothing to do but strongly condemn them. What it then leads to is another issue, but I think we should have a balance in which we strongly condemn but at the same time do not have a complete isolation of the country. Otherwise, there is a risk that there will be even more oppression, even more isolation and even more focus on violating human rights. Furthermore, there is a risk that the disarmament work that is so necessary both for the security of the world and for human rights will be abandoned. But, of course, we must condemn human rights violations.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-159	Madam President, I would like Sweden continues to require Iran to respect human rights. In addition to bilateral contacts, we are working systematically and continuously on these issues through the EU and the UN and in contacts with Iranian representatives. The judgment against Nasrin Sotoudeh is very shocking, and as soon as it became known, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs raised the case of senior Iranian high-level representatives, as I said, including the Iranian ambassador. After all, the EU has been sanctioning Iran for human rights since 2011. Work is currently under way to extend these restrictive measures in the form of the freezing of funds and economic resources and travel restrictions on persons responsible for serious human rights violations in Iran. Sweden is also a member of the core group, which in Geneva is presenting the resolution to the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran. The widespread application of the death penalty, as we have heard here, including the death penalty for minors, is of great concern. Sweden's and the EU's position on the death penalty is well known. We regard it as an inhuman, cruel and irreversible punishment that violates human rights. We condemn the application of the death penalty in all its forms. The EU is a driving force in the process of abolishing the death penalty, and we are taking an active part in that work on our part. Furthermore, the possibility of trade union organisation and trade union rights is very poor in Iran. Independent trade unions are not allowed, and here too many trade union and labour law activists are imprisoned. That particular situation was also raised when the Prime Minister visited Iran in February 2017. Freedom of expression and association and assembly must be respected. This is addressed in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law published in April 2017. This is another example of how we work with country reports. We also raise these issues regularly with Iran. In addition to the widespread application of the death penalty in Iran, the use of torture is also alarming. The reports of torture to which trade union representatives, for example, are subjected in captivity are alarming. We will continue our work, and that may also include strengthening sanctions against Iran.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-166	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Of course, Iran has signed international conventions, but they are not accepted. In the previous debate, we were just talking about countries that violate human rights and freedoms in their legislation. The women in particular were some of the first victims of Khomeinis's takeover when they were not allowed to go That's why Nasrin Sotoudeh has been punished so much. According to Islamic law, sharia law, she has campaigned for prostitution and disorder, and it is believed that the security of the country is in danger. That's how anxious you are for women's rights activists! I don't know if I'm gonna laugh or cry, but this is actually what she's been convicted of. Sweden does a lot. Sweden has companies in Iran, and we know that unions – there are representatives here in the gallery from LO and Transport – have repeatedly written letters according to the ILO's core international conventions and respect for trade union rights and respect for the formation of independent unions. But Iran has closed its eyes. Sweden should require workers in the companies that work there to have the same rights and the same trade union benefits and salary benefits as the workers in LO and Kommunal or Handels here in Sweden. That's what we should demand. I know that Sweden is investing a lot in women's entrepreneurship. I have nothing against doing so, but the problem is that unfortunately we are contributing money, our tax resources, to neo-liberal women as Vice-President and not to women like Nasrin Sotoudeh. I hope it will be Nasrin Sotoudeh and her sisters next time and not those who oppose them. Not all women are feminists, we know that. Iran has a militia called Khahar Zainab, and they are the ones guarding and preserving this, just like in Daish where women give birth to preserve the caliphate. We have to admit it, and there's nothing wrong with doing it. The Vice President and many other women who appear in these contexts are representatives of a state where they themselves make such laws, support the laws and implement them. That is why, I mean, we must mark against them. Yes, Sweden supports the women's struggle, but the women's struggle is not the vice president or some entrepreneurs who are neo-liberal women who simply want to preserve the system. We want women's rights activists, labour law activists and other people that we are calling for here in the pulpit to be freed from our aid, our democracy and our humanitarian aid. It should apply to them, too. I am pleased that Mrs Wallström and the government have called Iran's ambassador. It is time to do something at European level. It would be very good if you could join forces and demand the release of Nasrin Sotoudeh but also of Ahmadreza Djalali and worker activist Ismail Bakhshi.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-173	Madam President, I would like I read in a report that women are in the majority of Iranian universities. You wouldn't believe that. But it also shows a big problem that the country has, because looking at working life you can see that it is very male-dominated and that women's and girls' freedom is severely curtailed. There is a foundation to stand on, because both girls and boys are educated, and the majority in universities are women. But what a waste of resources it is that you do not take advantage of these women's skills in working life and that you oppress them so severely! They are not allowed to decide over their own life and are not even allowed to decide how to dress. I am pleased that it is still such a resistance to this political judgment, and it is not, of course, the only one, but it is one of the worst examples in many years. In fact, women's rights are so fundamental and important and are such an important part of human rights that we are protesting, and that has consequences – not only that Iran hears the negative reactions of the outside world, but also that we have sanctions. Of course, it is not just about women's rights. It is about the enormous violations that exist throughout the field of human rights and children's rights. What is positive is that this case has, in any case, been brought to the fore. The existence of whippings in our time and the fact that so many whippings are being imposed are so terrible and barbaric, and the same is true of prison sentences of several decades for peaceful activism. I am very pleased that the government condemns this, and I think it is good to do so throughout the European Union too, because then you put pressure in a different way.
i-GtyDYj2B2cmwhe6CsLNLfG	Madam President, I would like Thank you both to Amineh Kakabaveh and Hillevi Larsson for this debate! Sweden's position on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law is clear, as has been mentioned earlier. We have repeatedly criticised Iran for its shortcomings. I think, as Hillevi Larsson has just said, it is important that the voices are heard and that the reactions that occur around the world are noticed. In our dialogue with Iran, we will continue to raise issues relating to discrimination against women and girls on a regular basis. The same applies to the application of the death penalty, trade union rights and the lack of respect for the human rights of minorities in Iran. The imprisonment of Nasrin Sotoudeh is outrageous and an example of a negative development for human rights defenders in Iran. Instead, we will continue to protect, support and promote human rights defenders in the country. After all, the policy of isolation directed at Iran for decades did not lead to any positive progress on human rights. We are continuing on a way forward where dialogue and meetings are nevertheless placed in focus. But sometimes it may have to be combined with sanctions of the kind I mentioned here. It is still being discussed in the EU. Change requires dialogue, also with representatives of countries that are far from us in terms of human rights. We will be clear about what we think about this issue and this judgment. We will continue to be committed to progress towards respect for human rights in Iran.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-181	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for raising the issue of Nasrin Sotoudeh, human rights in Iran and the situation of women in Europe and Europe! I hope that something is done in common to ensure that Nasrin Sotoudeh is not exposed to 148 lashes and does not serve 38 years in prison because she wants women to own their own bodies. It is completely absurd and unacceptable for countries such as Iran, Saudi Arabia and others who are also members of the UN to appear in different contexts on the same terms without anyone even raising their eyebrows. How can it be possible to hang people? I was in Auschwitz last week myself. I cried and felt so sick during the three days I was there, because I thought the exact same thing is happening in my old home country today. I could not stop my tears when I thought of the young politicians I know. It is terrible that we are today opposed to women and human rights in Iran. That is why we must use everything in our power to stop the imprisonment, murder and execution of, for example, Ahmadreza, Ismail Bakhshi, Sotoudeh and thousands of other people fighting for human rights and the right to decide over their own bodies.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-184	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the commitment that Amineh Kakabaveh shows on all these issues. It is very important that there be a strong voice on our part towards Iran and that we say that we are in favour of an open dialogue. Then we must also be able to express opinions that run counter to the current order in Iran and that we demand that they respect human rights. We will continue to push these issues also in the EU and the UN, because we believe that if we are many people working together, we will be stronger. Thank you for the debate. It is important that the work continues.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-188	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me how I look at the functions of surveying and services to citizens. Initially, I would like to stress that I agree with Lotta Olsson that the country's 40 surveying authorities and the activities they carry out are a very important part of the community building process. For me and the government, it is therefore important that this process works as it is supposed to, so that it can contribute to meeting the societal challenges that we face, including the need for more housing. As regards surveying authorities, Statskontoret has evaluated on behalf of the Government how the organisation of property formation in a state and a number of municipal surveying authorities works according to the requirements of a uniform, legally secure and efficient operation. In its final report, Statskontoret notes that the organisation of property formation activities is unique in the state administration. D there is no equivalent form of organisation where the state and the municipality have the same assignments and activities based on the same regulations but within different geographical areas. Statskontoret also concludes that a split headship makes it difficult to reach the government's demands for a unitary and efficient property formation activity. Both I and the government take seriously the fact that services for citizens, businesses and authorities differ in different parts of the country and that some surveying authorities have too long processing times. In mid-February, I presented the government's measures to address these problems in an interpellation debate with Lotta Olsson's party colleague Lars Beckman. In view of the short time since then, I refer to what I said then. The Government is also actively working to make better use of the possibilities of digitalisation in the civil engineering process and thus contribute to making the whole process faster and more efficient for both the surveying authorities and other actors. Therefore, at the end of 2017, the Lantmäteriet was commissioned by the Government to pursue a comprehensive competence initiative on the possibilities of digitalisation in the planning and byggg process for three years. At the beginning of 2018, Lantmäteriet was also commissioned by the Government to continue working for a smarter process of construction. The assignment is a continuation of the Government's Digital initiative, which started in 2016. In an interim report of the renewed assignment, Lantmäteriet has explained how a national provision of detailed plans can be designed. In the final report, the Authority shall report on the development of the infrastructure for geodata. In parallel with these missions, Lantmäteriet cooperates with a number of other government agencies in two government assignments on secure and efficient access to basic data and a secure and efficient electronic exchange of information in the public sector. The government's efforts in this area are being made primarily to improve and ensure the function that citizens expect in a country that should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. My intention, therefore, is to continue to develop the process of building society during this term of office.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-196	Madam President, I would like Our surveying has an important function in society. You can't cut off and sell land from a property before Lantmäteriet made an execution. That is the law, and it is good and clear. What is not good and clear, however, is how our surveyors do their work regarding how long it takes to get an answer to their execution. Today, our surveyories are run through the State Land Survey and a number of municipal surveyories. The 40 surveying authorities in Sweden carry out 20 000 proceedings each year. For me as a Member of Parliament, an important part of the mission is to listen to what our citizens and voters see as important issues, what works in society and what does not work. Now the citizens are not satisfied. The waiting times for our surveying are a major problem. You get stuck in long waiting times and you can't do anything about it. Madam President, I would like It is also a democracy problem. When services and services that are governed by public law do not work, there is no other authority that can be addressed. You're completely tied to these waiting times. They describe that they have not had the opportunity to cut and sell parts of a property due to a waiting period of two years. This means that it is not possible to get the money out of a sale for two years either. The proposed buyer is also unable to apply either for a building permit on purchased land or, for that matter, for example, start investing in other ways in the land, such as a cover ditching on arable land. There may not even be anyone who wants to wait two years to buy a piece of land if you have it cut off. Furthermore, this leads to other problems. The waiting times of our surveying delays the construction of homes – homes that Sweden has a shortage of and that would need to be built. Waiting times mean a bottleneck and that some constructions may not even happen. Waiting times help to halt the development of society. We are missing jobs because of this, and Sweden cannot afford that. Important infrastructures are also not in place. How are we going to achieve the climate targets if there is not enough power capacity in our grids and Lantmäteriet does not do the services necessary to expand the grid? Waiting times are indirectly a climate problem. Madam President, I would like If we as politicians are to be able to contribute to good social development, we need to ensure that the social functions that politicians have to govern work. It's our responsibility. We expect all the other functions that will work in a society to really work. The taxi should be on time, car workshops should fix our car when needed and grocery stores should be open when we have time to shop. It is reasonable for us politicians to have a basic attitude which means that we also ensure that what we serve all citizens of society with will also work. Then the Lantmäteriet also needs to work. Only then will we have a society that works. We must get away from the Red-Green Government's waiting community.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-204	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for an important question! We too, of course, are keen that the process of building society should work as efficiently and quickly as possible. Therefore, the government has far from been passive but has taken a number of measures. We really have the ambition to be able to do something about this problem. As the facts are important, I would like to inform you that the average time for handling the survey is about one year. There are examples of a much longer duration of proceedings. There are also examples of significantly shorter processing times. That is not to say that a year is an acceptable time on average! Of course, we would very much like to see things go faster than that. At the same time, we must respect the fact that these are complex cases. Sometimes it takes a lot of work to move forward. Often very large values are at stake. That is why we need to ensure that the process is legally secure and that we have the necessary expertise to carry out building construction in a safe manner. As I said, we have given Lantmäteriet a number of different tasks and tasks to remedy the problem. We have also appointed four new Board members to the Board of Lantmäteriet, including a new Chairman of the Board, in order to be able to deal with the challenges facing the Authority. In addition, we have appointed a new Director-General to get a management that can work effectively to get a well-functioning authority. We have also given Lantmäteriet the task of reporting how to work to attract, hire and develop staff. Of course, the lack of competence in the area is a major constraint for all surveying authorities, not least for the State Land Survey. We have also commissioned Lantmäteriet to report what measures the agency intends to take to reduce processing times and how to prioritise between different cases in order to give priority to the most important people in society. We have also asked Lantmäteriet to report and introduce a new follow-up model on how to follow up the handling of cases. Key figures that we can use to evaluate the efficiency of the agency and how it works should also be presented. Work on the follow-up model will be sub-reported in April 2019, i.e. this month. Then the annual report will report on an ongoing basis on how to work to shorten the processing times. I think it might be wise to wait for the Authority's own analysis before we can draw any firm conclusions and thus proceed with making further decisions. However, the lack of competence is a restraint for all surveying authorities. I am concerned about these developments. The Red-Green Government of the previous parliamentary term announced a major educational initiative for community building in the 2018 budget. The idea was that it would gradually escalate. We set aside 14 million already in the first budget and then had an increase of up to SEK 112 million, which is a substantial training effort. When the Riksdag adopted a new budget which the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, put on the table of the Riksdag and which the Swedish Democrats supported, there was no such escalation. This upgrading of skills and training in surveying and community building were thus abandoned. I think that was a worrying priority which will not make it easier for surveying authorities to shorten the processing times. If the necessary skills are not available, it is difficult to do good work. It would be interesting to hear Lotta Olsson's statement as to why priority was given to the budget in question.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-214	Madam President, I would like The supervision of municipal surveying activities by Lantmäteriet is not very profound. But neither the state nor the municipal sector can do their job. It looks very different. During the first quarter of 2018, there were waiting times of between 23 and 146 weeks, which the parliamentary investigation service has looked at on my behalf. Then there must reasonably be comparisons to make. You should be able to learn how to work to have a shorter waiting period. How do you handle it in some places to bring down the times? How can you benefit from it? It also turned out that some have very long waiting times, but once they start the processes it goes pretty fast. This suggests that the time really does not necessarily have to be so long for a good case management. The very time you use to work on the matter goes pretty fast. It is therefore a question of a mere waiting period. There is also a danger in believing that digitalisation will solve everything. Usually the threshold when digitizing becomes a painful, albeit positive, process to get across. If you've had problems before, you might think you'll get a quick job after this. This is an approach I want to warn against. This is not a new problem, but it has existed for years. The Ombudsman has also raised this issue. Then it has been solved by working off the cases that were longer than five years. It still feels like this is an issue where all the facts show that you should put your heel down and prioritise the whole thing higher. I have read about Axel Oxenstierna and his major contribution to Swedish administration. What if he had seen something like this that doesn't work better than this? We can make every other function in society work so well. This has major consequences. We have problems with infrastructure, electricity grids and housing construction. The fact that this doesn't work gets a big impact. Madam President, I would like I do not understand why the Minister is not clearer and insists on these dossiers which are extremely important. We must demand more. This affects people's lives in a very negative way. From my horizon, it's not good enough just to work on this. There is a need to show clear results here. Both I and my constituents demand it. This is something that people in the country are getting quite tired of. This has got to be fixed. It can be dangerous for the establishment that such social functions are handled rigidly and not in place.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-222	Madam President, I would like I do not share Lotta Olsson's view that this has not been given priority. On the contrary, we have attached great importance to the question of how we can make Lantmäteriet work more effectively and how we can shorten processing times. It is, as I said, that many functions of social importance depend on the existence of a functioning surveying activity. Sometimes it has sounded from the Moderates' side that the solution to this is simply to release municipal surveying – everyone who wants to be able to do this. It's a road I want to warn you about. As I was in my last post, competence is required for this. It is necessary to have knowledge and ability to deal with these rather complicated matters. As Lotta Olsson himself goes on, the municipal surveyories do not have a better track record than the state surveying activities have. On the contrary, many municipal surveying authorities also have very long processing times. Statskontoret is very clear in its analysis: If this division were to deepen even more, there would be even more competition for an already inadequate competence. There are too few people who have been trained as surveyors, and that is a clear bottleneck that we are still struggling with. I would also warn against making demands for action without first having an analysis that points to where the problems really are. We have requested such an analysis from Lantmäteriet, and it will come in this month. So we do not roll our thumbs and wait, but we have made demands of Lantmäteriet for a report. It'll be here in the next few weeks. Then we get a better basis for then being able to take further steps and do what is relevant to achieve the goal of shortening the processing times. After all, it is not someone who benefits from us targeting a lot of resources in the wrong areas and not solving the problem. We need to know what we're doing when we take action. Lotta Olsson also points out in her speech how priority has been given to dealing first with the most important dossiers, which have waited far too long for their turn. It is an example of how to work within the agency to address the problems. Of course, I share Lotta Olsson's view that digitalisation is not some kind of wand that solves all the challenges. Nor has the government or the authority itself claimed that. On the other hand, digitalisation should not be reduced as a tool to improve efficiency and in the future reduce processing times and work more efficiently than before. There we have a solid work going on with resource setting and ensuring that new routines and new ways to use digitalization opportunities to modernise real estate formation in Sweden are found. I believe that this will prove to be a very important and good priority in order to have a more effective surveying authority, but also in order to shorten the times you have to wait for your case to be dealt with. On the other hand, I think that Lotta Olsson is somewhat avoiding something that I regard as an important core, namely the education system and access to skills. It is difficult to do surveying without surveyors. Unfortunately, we have too few people who have trained in this area. We have a clear lack of competence. Efforts are needed to bring forward future surveyors in order to deal with this problem in the long term. Given that this problem is being highlighted by the Moderates in interpellation after interpellation and calls for action and action, I think it is a strange priority that the budget that has been put on Parliament's table and which has been voted through clearly prioritised down education for surveyors and in community building. I think that words and actions are somewhat opposed to each other. It is a priority that I do not understand, if we are concerned about shortening the processing times of surveying.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-230	Madam President, I would like Of course, skills are needed, and of course there are narrow sectors. I have no intention of undermining anything and claiming that these are not important functions that require a high level of competence and education. It looks like this in some other industries too. You need to deal with that. But it is also the case that there are those who have managed to keep down the processing times. How do they work? Are they working in another way? Do you have to be surveyors to have all the handling, or are there parts of this that you can put on other professions where it is easy to get staff? Organization can sometimes solve things in a way that skills cannot quickly do. So it is not good enough just to blame it. It is also in some other professions that there are not many of them with the highest competence. Then you'll have to look at what functions they have to perform. You're supposed to make good use of the resources. Of course, it is important to do an analysis. No one's happier than me if the minister takes action. If we see something happen already in the spring or in the autumn, it is good. You should never take action without thinking properly. However, I would also like to know what the waiting time is. If the Swedish people see that it looks like this in some municipalities, they will increase the pressure. It's like with taxi drivers and other functions in our society – you get to know what the unsatisfied customers feel will increase the pressure. I think most people want to do a good job. If you see that you're the worst in the class, you try to work on it. We need a little more comparisons and a little more pressure out in the organization. The minister can't do the whole job on his own.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-234	Madam President, I would like When it comes to comparisons and statistics, we have done a solid job and obtained much better data. We note that municipal surveying authorities in Stockholm, Helsingborg, Uddevalla, Motala, Hässleholm, Landskrona, Haninge, Varberg, Sandviken, Örnsköldsvik and Västerås have longer average processing times than the state surveying authority has. In this context, it is also important to keep track of the fact that there are quite different activities we are talking about. During the time studied, the State Survey Office dealt with 3,200 cases, while Sandviken dealt with 8. So it's quite different dimensions we're talking about. But competence is also needed. You can't get away from the fact that it's a bottleneck. There, Lantmäteriet has managed to work more efficiently than the municipal surveying authorities. Lantmäteriet has 56% of all administrators, but handles 76% of all cases. It is therefore a matter of urgency to be more efficient per surveyor. We need to work on many different measures. We have taken many steps to get a better board. We have a new Director-General, who has the ability to deal with the problems that have arisen. We have also given many assignments. Proposals will be made on what can be done to shorten the processing times in the future, given where the major problems lie. I've been in training. It will be important that we take advantage of the skills available. For example, it comes to our country people who have education in this area. To be able to take advantage of their expertise and use it in Sweden I think can be an important solution. But we also need to find new ways of working. Digitalization and open geodata are a way to further streamline surveying in Sweden. This is a high priority for the government. We are working tirelessly to reduce the length of proceedings by all means, which are too long today. There I share Lotta Olsson's view.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-239	Madam President, I would like Mr Ludvig Aspling has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the actions of the Romanian Government are in line with the values of the European Union and Article 2 of the Treaty and what measures she intends to take. The question has been handed over to me. The government is working to ensure that all Member States of the Union respect and uphold the EU's common values. The government is concerned about developments in the rule of law in several parts of the EU and is pursuing a dialogue with the Member States concerned on the importance of respecting fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. Sweden is also working with a circle of like-minded Member States to make the EU's action more effective. Sweden supports the ongoing warning procedures initiated by the European Commission and the European Parliament under Article 7(1) of the EU Treaty and has also intervened at the Court of Justice in support of the European Commission in cases relating to legal matters against Hungary. As regards Romania's progress in judicial reform and the fight against corruption, Romania has been under the supervision of the European Commission since its entry into the EU in 2007, which was a condition for its membership of the EU. After several years of progress after entry, developments have been reversed in the country since 2017. There is also a need for the Commission to take action in the field of the fight against corruption and the fight against corruption. Still others lie as proposals for finalisation in Parliament. The legislative amendments have received both domestic and international criticism, including from the European Commission and the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe. The latest report of the European Commission's monitoring mechanism CVM expressed sharp criticism of Romania, which was called upon to act to reverse the negative trend. The Romanian Government has rejected this criticism and continues to push through the legislative changes. Sweden plays an active role in the discussions on these issues taking place in Brussels and is working for the EU to urge Romania to uphold the principles of the rule of law and anti-corruption. We welcome the progress made in Romania in the past, but we are also clear that its reform efforts must continue and that the monitoring by the European Commission cannot be completed until Romania has met the criteria set by the European Commission. These messages are also sent to Romanian representatives. The government will continue to argue that the EU's fundamental values are not negotiable and that all Member States must honour their commitments under both the EU's and the Council of Europe's and the United Nations' regulations.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-244	Madam President, I would like When the newspaper The Economist ranked the EU countries after a democracy index, Romania ended up in the very last place. After Romania's Social Democrats took power in 2016, they immediately started to push through legislative proposals that in practice legalise corruption and give the government an increased opportunity to appoint and remove judges. One reason for this is probably that the party chairman of the Socialist Party and the de facto Prime Minister of Romania, Liviu Dragnea, are personally suspected of embezzling hundreds of millions of crowns from the EU budget. He has also been identified as the leader of a criminal syndicate by the country's special corruption prosecutor. In 2015, Dragnea was sentenced to one year in prison for electoral fraud, and later in 2018, he was sentenced to three and a half years in another corruption case. It is uncertain whether he will serve any of those sentences. Romania then fired the head of the special corruption prosecutor Laura Codrya Kövesi. Romania is also trying to stop the same person from being President of the new EU Public Prosecutor's Office, which says a lot about how bad the situation is. After documents related to the hag last year leaked to a group of digging journalists, the Social Democrats responded by threatening journalists with hundreds of millions of dollars in fines under the EU Data Protection Regulation. A few weeks ago, the same Social Democrats tried to ban opposition parties from participating in the European elections. Madam President, I would like In other words, it looks like the democratic situation in Romania is strained, to say the least. The Commission is also carrying out a review of Romania under the so-called ‘cooperation and control mechanism'. In a follow-up report of November 2018, the Commission points out that, although some progress has been made, developments in corruption and the rule of law are backward. Among other things, the Commission noted that new legislation made it difficult to guarantee the independence of the judiciary. For example, changes to the law on the judiciary have weakened the role of the Supreme Justice Council and the Romanian President in the procedure for appointing high-ranking prosecutors. Pressure on the special anti-corruption prosecutor is deemed to have damaged his independence. The government has also adopted a new exemption regulation to change the service time requirements of the corruption prosecutor, which may have additional negative consequences for his operational capacity. All of this has caused concern about the continued ability of the institutions to produce results in the fight against corruption in the country. Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Government is aware of the situation in Romania. In fact, I believe that the Swedish Government is honest when it expresses its concern about the situation there. But the government still chooses to somehow duck for the question that I ask in the interpellation. The very essence of the question is whether the Swedish Government considers that the actions of the Romanian Government are still in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty. That's what I want an answer to.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-254	Madam President, I would like These are serious accusations against the Romanian Government. Many of the things that Ludvig Aspling reports here are worrying. That is also what the European Commission has taken on board. This has been done on the basis of Article 2 TEU. It would not have been necessary to be so concerned and concerned about developments if one had not feared that it would conflict with that article. It is a work that should continue. I myself have heard from Frans Timmermans that he is not satisfied with the way in which the Romanian Government has so far complied with the recommendations made. The list of recommendations to the Romanian Government has also been added. We expect the Romanian Government to listen carefully to what the Commission says, but also to listen to the large group of like-minded countries that are now pointing to an increasing number of instruments that we can use to tackle violations of the rule of law. It is not just the procedure that applies to Romania and Bulgaria. We also have the procedures under Article 7 in relation to Hungary and Poland, which are familiar. We have a new idea that has been launched in the EU community of having a kind of joint review procedure in which each Member State of the Union would have to show how to comply with the principles of the rule of law. Then there is a Commission proposal for the current budgetary work. Similarly, those countries that do not fully respect the principles of the rule of law should not receive as much contributions from the EU budget as they would otherwise have received. This shows the seriousness of this matter.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-259	Madam President, I would like Once again, it is clear that the Government is aware of and concerned about the situation. I was just going to briefly remind you of what is actually in Article 2. The Union shall be founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values shall be common to the Member States in a society characterised by diversity, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and the principle of equality between men and women. ..................................................... If you put on the legal hat a little bit, you can immediately see that it is a paragraph that cannot be applied in a direct legal way because it is far too fuzzyly written. It is too wide and gives room for far too much interpretation. I can understand in any way that it is difficult to answer the question of whether or not the action of a particular Member State falls within this framework. These concepts can be interpreted in very many different ways. It is also important to bear in mind that the countries that are often concerned when it is said that some countries do not manage public administration perfectly are new Member States. The process going on before the accession of a Member State has been far too lax. The Union places far too little pressure on new Member States. It may be something to take with it now that the Union is about to take up countries such as Montenegro or Albania in the not too distant future. What I am missing, however, is a direct answer to the question that I must once again point out is the essence of the interpellation. It is a question of whether Romania's actions fall within the scope of Article 2 or not. That question is to some extent digital. Either the government believes that the action does or the government believes that it does not. To point out that there are a number of processes going on to evaluate Romania, Bulgaria or other countries is, of course, good in itself. But that is not the question I am asking in the interpellation. The intervention concerns whether this government considers that Romania's behaviour is in line with Article 2 or whether the Romanian Government is in breach of Article 2. I would like a direct answer to that.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-265	Madam President, I would like I believe that I made it quite clear both in my initial reply and in my first speech that the Swedish Government takes very seriously the shortcomings in respect for the principles of the rule of law that exist in Romania. I therefore believe that I have answered the question. There is a clear criticism of abuse of power, corruption and how one has gained political influence over the judiciary. It is about how Laura Codruta Kövesi, mentioned by Ludvig Aspling, has been opposed when she applied for the position of head of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. It is a criticism that we are making to those countries where there is reason to do so regardless of which party is in a position of government.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-267	Madam President, I would like We are all serious about the situation. Expressing clear criticism is in itself a good thing. But that is still not what the interpellation is about. What we want a straight answer to is a yes-or-no question. Does the government believe that Romania's actions fall within the scope of Article 2 or does it believe that it does not? It's a very simple question. The Government should be able to answer that, I think. As regards the whole process and the fact that the Government refuses to answer the question, a little points to the existence of a double standard within the Union. It simply applies a rule book for social democrats and another rule book for non-social democrats. It gets pretty obvious, and I take it very seriously. When we discuss issues relating to the rule of law, there is another principle that should be borne in mind. It is that equal cases should be treated equally. It's important to remember. I would like the Council of State to respond now in the last speech. Does he think that Romania's actions fall within Article 2 or not? It's very simple. It's a question of yes or no.
i-063b4aadc2cac783-270	Madam President, I would like I would like to repeat what I said just now to Ludvig Aspling: we have our opinion on these issues regardless of which party is in a position of government. Ludvig Aspling questioned that we consider different countries equally and felt that it depends on which party is in charge. This is not correct. We do not have double standards like that. I can repeat what I said earlier on Article 2. The Swedish Government considers it clear that the Romanian Government does not respect what is so clearly stated in Article 2 about respecting the principles of the rule of law.
