i-ShVC93bPKbpHA1og6L8igq	During the plenary session on 13 November, Jimmie Åkesson, the Swedish Democrats, raised a motion of censure on Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, the Social Democrats. The job was assisted by at least 35 members, and it was therefore postponed for the first time. The profession was rebuffed yesterday. The case will now be brought to the fore. Firstly, an explanation of vote is given.
i-8797265f65b59c79-0	Mr President, I would like to Two teenagers have been shot at with automatic weapons. Several people have been stabbed hard. An 18-year-old has had his ear cut off in connection with a robbery in Gothenburg. A 15-year-old has been shot to death. A woman has been beaten so badly at a bus stop that we still don't know if she'll survive. A bomb has detonated in an apartment building in Sundbyberg. This is just a sample of the events that have taken place in our country in the last week. Over a hundred bombings have been carried out only this year, and we have to go to war zones in order to find something similar. When Morgan Johansson took office as Minister of Justice five years ago, we hardly thought the situation could be more serious, but we were wrong. During his time, Sweden has become one of Europe's most dangerous countries. Mr President, I would like to I am surprised that Annie Lööf and Nyamko Sabuni want to give Morgan Johansson continued support and continued confidence, because then the government's failure will also be the failure of the Center Party and Liberals. Responsible immigration policy and cowardly criminal policy is a deadly combination that has caused thousands of Swedes to have their lives destroyed. These are dreams that have been crushed and families that have been beaten to pieces. Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Justice's gang conversation has broken down. The judiciary is still heavily underfunded, and every time the opposition has put forward sharp proposals to counter gang crime, Morgan Johansson has done what he could to stall and counteract. All the big words about breaking the gangs, all the talk about harder hold and all the promises that the judiciary will now get the resources you need – we've found out now. Nothing came of this. Things got worse. The Danish government is now establishing border controls against Sweden to protect itself against terrorist crimes and to prevent Malmö's gang crime spilling over on Copenhagen. Mr President, I would like to I fear that this development will continue for another three years. Parliament should state clearly to the Prime Minister that there is a lack of trust in Morgan Johansson, because if there is something we have learned during his time as Minister of Justice, it is that it can always get worse.
i-8797265f65b59c79-9	Mr President, I would like to A motion of censure is one of Parliament's sharpest tools, to be used with caution and after careful consideration. It is, in the opinion of the Center Party, a tool to be used in cases where serious and concrete errors have been committed by a government minister. Misbelief against an individual minister should not be a means for the parties of the Riksdag to express general dissatisfaction with the current government. Historically, there have been rare votes of censure in Swedish politics; between 1980 and 2002 only five votes were taken. No minister has either fallen in a vote of censure, but since 2015, the number of votes of censure in the Riksdag has increased. Five votes have been taken and, in addition, two ministers have had to resign in connection with the fact that enough parties have expressed their willingness to vote in favour of censure in Parliament. The motion of censure that we have here today is about whether or not Parliament has confidence in Minister Morgan Johansson. The Center Party has concluded that we do not believe that the Government has committed a serious error that could justify a motion of censure. Nor does the Center Party see how a motion of censure against the responsible minister of state can help reverse the very serious trend of increasing shootings and of increasing serious crime. Our firm conviction is that the situation we now have requires more parties to cooperate and find broad solutions. It should be the primary focus of all parties to ensure, with common forces, that we can bring forward strong legislation so that the police and the judiciary are given the tools needed to combat violence. The Center Party is not a government party. We will therefore, like how we did in the censure vote on Magdalena Andersson 2015, on Peter Hultqvist 2017 and on Annika Strandhäll 2019, abstain from voting – that is, press yellow – in today's vote.
i-8797265f65b59c79-14	Mr President, I would like to Sweden and its inhabitants are now more or less affected by violent acts on a daily basis. These include explosions outside multi-family buildings, bloody open street deals, arson and personal robbery with extreme violence, for example. The last day we could read about a young boy who was not only robbed of everything but his underwear but also got part of his ear cut off. The perpetrators were about ten in number — as predators tormenting flocks. The blame for these ruthless acts – these atrocities – falls on no one but the offender. It does not fall on society, not on the school, nor on Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, because, as Christian Democrats, we believe in the responsibility of the individual. Humanism, on which Christian democracy rests, sees every person as imperfect, yet with free will and his own morals. Personality also teaches us that man's morals are partly related to whom he socializes and reflects himself. Here is the explanation that man is capable of both loving acts and of the most bestial of deeds. In the criminal gangs that are now threatening our society, brutality is rewarded. That's why state power has to be tough. That's why the gangs have to be crushed. The fact that the state has not been hard and has not been able to crush the gangs has contributed to their reign of terror being allowed to spread. It has damaged our entire society and moved the line between the extreme and the everyday. The hand to the heart now! Does anyone in this House believe that any of the grosser crimes that have struck us in recent weeks and months would not have topped all the news if it had happened 10, 20 or 30 years ago? Does anyone think that they had not been the dominant topic of conversation for days, perhaps even weeks? Think back to the extreme crimes of that time and how the places where they were carried out are forever in the collective memory, such as Åmsele, Stureplan or Malexander! Then consider today's crime! Is there anyone who can list from memory the neighborhoods where the bombs have detonated, where the Russian automatic carbines have been fired? I didn't think so either. Mr President, I would like to This is what we are fighting against: both violence itself and the impact on society. We are fighting against a trend that makes even a pure act of war quickly forgotten, becomes one in the crowd that makes it perfectly natural for people to plan their accommodation based on where one can be assumed to avoid the next shooting, the next blast. This is where Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson's responsibility must be discussed and tested, not for the violence, but for the slowness of meeting the violence, not for the fires, but for the inability to put them out. The Swedish parliament, we in here, have made a long series of decisions that all aimed to break the gangs and secure the streets. The decisions concern both our external and our internal security. Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson has allowed them to collect dust in some drawer at the Ministry of Justice. As if this were not enough, the government with Morgan Johansson at its head has actively missed opportunities to do things that would make a real difference. The crown example, of course, is the negotiations on the measures to combat gang violence in the autumn, which broke down. I brought with me no less than 168 completed announcements, decided by us here in Parliament, to the talks. The government came almost empty-handed. Social Democratic and environmental negotiators could hardly agree among themselves. The negotiations turned out to be political theatre, a public relations coup whose purpose was to buy government time. But it is not the government's problem that we are set to solve, Mr President. It is not the security of the government that is under threat. Our only possible conclusion, therefore, even though the Christian Democrats lack confidence in the entire government, is that Morgan Johansson's way of performing his duties has left us no choice but to support the motion of censure.
i-8797265f65b59c79-27	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying the obvious. The situation in Sweden is very serious. The government has lost control of one of the most central functions in our society: the maintenance of law and order. The development threatens not only individual people but the entire Swedish social contract. We see criminal gangs tying hold on ever larger parts of our country. The gross violence has reached historically high levels in Sweden, and the picture is not that it gets better. A total of 60 areas in Sweden are now considered by the Police Authority as vulnerable or particularly vulnerable. Shootings and bombings are suddenly not something unusual but something that we are forced to adapt our everyday lives to. So far this year, the police have recorded a total of 268 shootings. And many of these shootings, sometimes pure executions, take place in the midst of people in central places in our cities. At the same time, 200 bombings have taken place. That's as much as 64 percent more than the same period last year. According to the police, the situation has no equivalent internationally. The Danish Social Democratic Government has even gone as far as to introduce border controls against Sweden in order to prevent developments from spreading there. Criminal gangs make a living from drug sales and other crime, and they are described as both more aggressive and violent than before. The gang's recruitment now goes far down in the ages, and they fortify their power with threats to witnesses and violence that also affects innocent people. In parallel with this, the vulnerability of several other types of crime also increases, not least the personal robbery of young people who have recently increased significantly. It's an unpleasant type of crime that hits people's security in this country. Mr President, I would like to While social developments are placing increasing demands on the Police Authority, the number of police officers per inhabitant has decreased in recent years. Thus, even though the population has increased, there are fewer police officers today than when this government took office. This alone is a major failure and a contributing factor to the problems that we are now seeing. The Moderates have pointed out a wide range of measures that would be model-breaking against gang crime and called for national mobilisation. But the interest of the government and the responsible minister has been almost provocative. Unfortunately, it is only one of many examples of the inaction that has characterized the last five years at the Ministry of Justice. Rarely have such major problems been faced with as few concrete answers as during Morgan Johansson's time as Head of Department. Inaction has also forced the Riksdag to act with historically many assignments to the government. Not during any term of office in the past 40 years in the history of this country has the Committee of Justice in this Parliament decided on so many announcements to the government calling for action. This passivity has consequences, and the result is the serious development that we are now seeing in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The new normal image that emerges with open drug sales, threats and attacks on witnesses, open street killings and detonation of explosives in residential areas can never be accepted by the Moderates. Ultimately, responsibility for this development falls heavily on the Minister of Justice and Migration. In view of the inaction and lack of an understanding of the crisis in the face of serious and systemic societal problems, the Moderates consider that the Minister of Justice and Migration has seriously failed and failed to perform his duties. Therefore, the Riksdag should declare that the Minister of Justice and Migration no longer has the confidence of the Riksdag.
i-8797265f65b59c79-38	Mr President, I would like to Examination of confidence in a minister or the whole government through a motion of censure is regulated in the form of government and the parliamentary order. It is an important democratic tool. Parliament may dismiss ministers who do not carry out their duties or are not appropriate. But it is clear that this instrument has come to be used by the conservative opposition in a routine manner. This is the eleventh time that censure has ever been used, and this is the sixth time it has been used since the turn of the government in 2014. Violence is terrible, and gang crime is one of the biggest social problems facing Sweden. It is crucial to break the trend with young boys who are used and involved in crime rather than going to school, removing weapons and drugs from the street, strengthening the police and other law enforcement authorities and ensuring that they have the resources and tools to carry out their mission. That is why it is also something that the government and the cooperation parties are prioritising and investing in, and we will also have to do so in the future. Unfortunately, the 34-point programme presented in September was not as broad as we would have liked. But these are proposals that will become reality and that will make a difference in reality. These are measures to prevent crime. It's about witness protection and breaking the culture of silence. This is about the drop-off aid for those who want to leave the criminal path. It's about tools for the police, like coercion, to solve more crimes. It's about sharper penalties. It is about improved opportunities for authorities to work together to combat organised crime. It is about the ability of municipalities to carry out security-building work and more. It is not about making pr-cups or picking points in this House. The Green Party is therefore calling for the motion of censure on which we are voting today to be rejected.
i-8797265f65b59c79-42	Mr President, I would like to As everyone has said, serious organised crime is a huge problem, and it is clear that more efforts are needed to tackle it. Of course, police work is central in this work, but if we are to get to grips with the whole thing, the whole of society needs to act. Those at risk of falling into crime need help, and it is a long-term job for social services, preschools and schools. To stop the recruitment of criminal gangs, young people need to find hope and faith in the future again. All people in our society must be given real opportunities to choose other ways of life than a criminal path. For those who seriously want to reduce violence and crime, the foundation is to start building a much more equal society. There is therefore a need for a different policy, not for another minister. The Left Party will therefore abstain in today's vote.
i-8797265f65b59c79-45	Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago, a mother was murdered with her child in her arms. She was shot in an open street in Malmö. A few days ago, a 15-year-old boy was shot to death in the same town. These are unbelievably cruel acts that naturally arouse disgust. We all agree that Sweden is in a serious situation with both shootings and blasts. Violence reaps many victims, not only those affected and their relatives, but also society at large. It creates insecurity. Every injured person and every person killed in this violence is a great tragedy. This development can and must be broken. The Prime Minister has made it clear that this is the most important issue at the moment. Mr President, I would like to The role of the opposition is, among other things, to criticize and question the government. It is part of our democratic system. However, it can be done in different ways. Now the Swedish Democrats have found that Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, due to the development of violence, will be removed by a vote of censure in the Riksdag. My trade union background has taught me that you always test if there is a factual basis in the matter. I do not find that to be the case in this case. Here we have a minister who has done the most in this area ever, but the Swedish Democrats, with the support of Moderates and Christian Democrats, nevertheless want to remove Morgan Johansson. The government's task is to ensure that the authorities responsible for combating gangs are given the tools and resources to do this. During the five years that Morgan Johansson has been head of the Ministry of Justice, the police have received more resources, we have received more police employees, the penalties have been increased for the crimes committed by the gang criminals and the possibility of camera surveillance in violent places has increased – just to mention a few examples. The police organization is now gathering forces to tackle the development of violence. Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson has contributed about 50 penalties. This applies, for example, to increased penalties for drug offences, violent crimes and serious weapons offences. Anyone who is found today with a loaded weapon in the city is automatically detained and at risk of not returning home for a couple of years. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, a package of 34 sharp measures against gang crime has been presented. It is about both law enforcement and crime prevention. The important crime prevention work helps to strangle recruitment to gangs. It is important that society as a whole now gathers together to tackle the problems. This week, the Swedish Parliament passed tough penalties for murder. This law will enter into force in January. Data storage has been in place for a month, so now the police can get information about who has called who at different times. Mr President, I would like to While Morgan Johansson is dedicated to ensuring that law enforcement authorities get the tools and resources needed to crack gang crime, the right-wing conservative bloc in Swedish politics engages in political games and populism. The Swedish Democrats are taking the lead shirt, and Moderates and Christian Democrats are hanging on. We Social Democrats have, of course, continued to trust Morgan Johansson as Minister of Justice and Migration, and we will of course vote against it in today's vote.
i-8797265f65b59c79-57	Mr President, I would like to Through a motion of censure, Parliament can declare that it does not have confidence in a minister. In that case, the Government must resign immediately. In our Swedish constitution, the instrument of suspicion is one of the most important expressions of parliamentary democracy, where the government is always accountable to the Riksdag. The Liberals have this term of office in cooperation with the government and the Center Party to implement a large number of important liberal reforms. In the Committee on Justice, the Liberals are working widely with all parties to push for clearer and better legislation in criminal law and procedural law. We are not afraid to support declarations of censure on ministers when justified and there are reasons for this because of their personal duties. But the fact that a minister and a government pursue a policy which the opposition considers to be too little, too late and too bad is not a sufficient basis for mistrust. For the opposition thinks that this is reasonable every day until it itself comes into government. Declaration of censure is an instrument to be used restrictively. The Liberals will therefore vote against the motion of censure and press the 'no' button in today's vote.
i-MeHzBMGVRnFtvDW8Qw7TA2	The matter of censure on Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson (S) would now be resolved.
i-JxhSZWF4mxxagypEvAfwGs	The President noted that less than half of Parliament's members had voted in favour, and the House had thus rejected the motion of censure on Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson.
i-8797265f65b59c79-63	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me if I can imagine that Umeå will be part of the national reconstruction and development of Swedish defence capabilities. As Edward Riedl correctly writes in his interpellation, there are already military operations in Umeå today. In Umeå garrison there is Totalförsvarets protection stage m, which is the Swedish Armed Forces' knowledge centre for protection against radiation, infection and poison. Within the garrison is also the Home Guard in the form of Västerbottensgruppen, which takes care of Västerbottens Battalion. Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut also operates in Umeå. In May this year, the Defence Committee presented a number of assessments and proposals concerning, among other things, the development of military defence. There is a broad consensus behind the preparation's description of the deteriorating world situation, of the main direction of military defence development and of the need to strengthen military capabilities. In July, the Swedish Armed Forces and other defence authorities were tasked with presenting, by 15 November this year at the latest, supporting the defence policy bill for the years 2021 – 2025. The mission includes an analysis of the feasibility of the Defence Committee's reports, an assessment of the financial calculations and time frames on which the proposals are based, and a presentation of the Agency's proposals for military defence priorities in 2021 – 2025. On August 30 this year, the government, the Center Party and the Liberals agreed that military defence, in addition to previous decisions, will be added SEK 5 billion in 2022 and that an additional SEK 5 billion will be added annually to military defence until 2025, in accordance with the proposal of the Defence Committee. This means that the military defence spending will increase by 25 billion and that a total of 75 billion will be added to the military defence during the period 2021-2025. Based on, among other things, the Defence Committee's proposal and the evidence from the defence authorities, a defence policy proposal will be developed. It is intended to be submitted to the Riksdag in autumn 2020. The whole of the proposal of the Defence Committee shall be implemented in the defence policy bill in such a way that it fits within the financial framework. The goal is a defence decision with as broad a consensus as possible. Finally, I note that Umeå already has and will continue to play an important role in rebuilding and further developing Swedish defence capabilities.
i-8797265f65b59c79-68	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In its final report, the defence committee proposed an extension of the basic organisation. Two regiments are proposed to be restored in Arvidsjaur and Gothenburg. In addition, two more regiments are proposed to be established for training, among other things. Mr President, I would like to When Sweden is now renovating the defence, Umeå is an appropriate place of establishment for a new regiment. Umeå is Norrland's largest municipality in terms of population and already has, as the Minister also describes, defence operations. Within Umeå garrison there are among other things Totalförsvarets protection centre and Västerbottensgruppen within the Home Guard. Umeå has previously had extensive defence operations, and this makes it easy to scale up operations again. We have a consensus across the political bloc boundaries in Umeå municipality and are thus also well placed to contribute to a rapid strengthening of the Swedish Armed Forces' operations in Umeå. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the Minister sees Umeå as an important part of the reconstruction and further development of the Swedish defence's ability to defend itself.
i-8797265f65b59c79-72	Mr President, I would like to Umeå garrison currently employs 200 people. At the Total Defence Protection Centre there are 125 employees and 45 recruits. In 2019 it is planned to be 75 between 2020 and 2021. We have the Västerbotten Group with 20 employees. They provide training and support to NGOs and training for the Home Guard. They have Sweden's largest Home Guard battalion with 1 100 soldiers, three intervention companies, four guarding companies, a boat platoon, a CBRN platoon, a flight group and two musical corps. The Home Guard provides basic training with direct recruitment of 35 persons per year to the Home Guard. In addition, the Swedish Armed Forces have logistics with, among other things, storage operations where there are 20 people. We have FMTIS, the Swedish Armed Forces' telecommunications and information systems units. The CBRN protection unit of the Fortification Agency and FOI is also located in Umeå. Umeå is, of course, a place where we have extensive activities related to the Swedish Armed Forces in various parts. This means that you have good conditions and will be part of the building of military capabilities in Sweden. I have already pointed out the fact that the number of recruits in the area will increase. It is also important for me to be clear that this is a far too early stage in the process of identifying individual locations. Today, I receive the Swedish Armed Forces' analysis of the Defence Committee's report. It will contain information on their views on finances, timeframes, organisation and staff situation. I have also invited all parties who participated in the work of the Defence Committee to provide information on this later. Then work begins to design a bill. I do not want to anticipate this work, but I will have to come back to the more concrete initiatives when the work is done and there is a basis for a proposal. But I also fully understand that from different parts of the country, where you see that you have opportunities and where there are also defence activities today, you make your point of view and want to highlight the advantages of your locality. I therefore thank you for the interpellation and for the information provided by Edward Riedl here.
i-8797265f65b59c79-77	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, it is gratifying that the Minister has a positive view of Umeå as a possible place. Then, of course, I also fully understand that the Minister cannot point out here and now any place. I also think it should be interesting with the Swedish Armed Forces press conference today – at. 10:30, I think. Then we will also be able to see how the Swedish Armed Forces analyse the final report from the Defence Committee that has been submitted. Then we will also be able to see what is possible and not possible in this. But I want to point out here and now, as I said earlier, that Umeå has good opportunities to quickly scale up its operations. There is also good agreement across party and block boundaries. Both the Social Democrats and the Moderates, in the form of Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Municipal Board, have made contact with the Minister for Defence and the Swedish Armed Forces and handed over the positive elements seen in Umeå, not least that there are ready-made environmental permits and other things that allow you to very quickly scale up this activity. There is existing construction and other things left. The last thing I wanted to say is that the Minister for Defence is warmly welcome up to Umeå Municipality, as well as surely to all other locations. I understand that the Secretary of Defense has been there several times. But he is warmly welcome there to see the opportunities that exist to quickly scale up the operations and to see the positive view that is there across party and block boundaries and that would make it easier for the Swedish Armed Forces to scale up their operations.
i-8797265f65b59c79-79	Mr President, I would like to I have explained the government's position, and I have also explained the activities of the Swedish Armed Forces and the authorities in Umeå. I think I have a good basic information on what it looks like in the area. I thank you once again for this information, and I also thank you for the invitation to come to Umeå Municipality.
i-8797265f65b59c79-80	Mr President, I would like to I have nothing further to add, but thank the Minister for Defence for a pleasant discussion in this House.
i-8797265f65b59c79-81	Mr President, I would like to You too!
i-8797265f65b59c79-82	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked the Minister for Social Security what concrete measures he intends to take to ensure that our welfare systems are not exploited by those who, through various criminal schemes and cheating, are trying to usurp contributions and support from the public to whom they are not really entitled. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The right grant or benefit shall come to the right person or company. We should be able to rely on welfare and that it cannot be abused. People with criminal intentions should not be able to use our common tax-funded systems. This is why the government has taken a series of measures to strengthen control and reduce crime within welfare systems. Anyone who engages in welfare crimes should be stopped and prosecuted s. The government has begun a major reinforcement of the Police Authority. From the end of the year, the maximum sentence for serious benefit offences will be increased from four to six years, and the law will be extended to include, for example, labour market policy support. The Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office have been tasked with improving the handling of grant offences in cooperation with the paying authorities. In 2018, the number of investigated grant offences increased in the framework of the joint work of the public authorities to combat organised crime. The budget proposal for 2020 proposes that the Swedish Ecocrime Agency should receive more funds to combat a systematic crime against welfare. Investigation and prosecution are a central part of law enforcement, but it is also important to prevent crime from being committed. One of the objectives of the National Crime Prevention Programme Together against Crime is to develop society's control functions to combat crime against welfare systems. The government has set up an investigation into the coordination of state payments from welfare systems. False identities can open the door to abuse of welfare systems. An investigation has proposed stricter requirements and routines for Swedish ID documents. The Tax Agency has been given the opportunity to unregister false identities from the population register and make visits to check a person's residence. A civil record crime has been re-established and a recent investigation has been set up to reduce errors in civil records. The budget proposal for 2020 proposes that the Swedish Tax Agency should receive more funds to improve the quality of population accounts. Companies should not be able to be used as a criminal tool. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Companies Registration Office to increase controls on the registration of company data. The Swedish Companies Registration Office and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority work together to identify companies that may be used as a crime tool at an early stage. In terms of assistance compensation, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has for several years developed the work to combat grant offences, both on its own and in collaboration with, among other things, the Swedish Tax Agency and the law enforcement authorities. The Finnish Immigration Service has introduced special investigation requirements for employment in certain industries and for start-ups, including personal assistance. So a number of measures have been taken and are under way. The government is closely following developments.
i-8797265f65b59c79-90	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. It is a good thing that a great deal is being done to combat crimes in welfare, as the Minister has listed, but I still get the feeling that the extent of the crime that is actually going on here and now is not fully understood. The Minister says, among other things, that false identities can open the door to abuse of welfare systems and that companies cannot be used as a criminal tool. The truth is, however, that the very false identities are a very common and major problem and that too many companies are used in a mix of both black, grey and white activities that make it very difficult for our authorities to control them. I think we should agree that one of the biggest problems with crimes against welfare is the poor systems and lack of controls of the Swedish authorities. That's exactly why I put my interpellation to the Minister for Social Security. We must tighten up and change the rules, but above all we must ensure that it is not as easy to access Swedish welfare as it is today. Anyone who engages in welfare crimes should be stopped and prosecuted," says Morgan Johansson in his answer to me. But the problem is that they are not even discovered – that it is so easy to commit these crimes but extremely difficult to detect them. In Svenska Dagbladet, on November 5, there was a big article on haunted persons.It was a whole story – where the border police say that it is chaos. They say they have no chance and, above all, take up coordination numbers, which have become a major problem. They're fake identities and imaginary people. You can therefore, on false grounds, get permission to work here in Sweden and open a bank account, and the whole welfare system opens up. That's completely unreasonable. This is so simple that criminals have discovered the major shortcomings that exist in the control of Swedish authorities and are actually making serious use of them. I don't think the government or I want it this way. The coordination number is a problem, and one can only be obtained by sending an email to the authority. Evidence of identity is not required. So you don't know who's e-mailing or even whether that person exists. The act of confidentiality is another major problem that prevents authorities from sharing information even though they actually know that crime is going on. The investigation that has been set up to look at safer systems is great, but it will not do its job unless laws are changed. Other countries are ahead of Sweden in this. Unfortunately, cheating and crime continue to grow during the investigation. Terrorist Akilov is a sad example of such cheating; he stayed in Sweden illegally and lent his identity to another person who worked in a hotel – a person who no one even knew who it was. How many Akilov are there in Sweden? No one knows. The fact that many immigrants and refugees want to go to Sweden is perhaps not just because we have a generous welfare system, but the criminal gangs may come here because we have naive systems in which it is easy to abuse and commit crimes. It is possible to get millions out of the Swedish welfare system. Mr President, I would like to In a report published in November, a large number of authorities report on the situation of organised crime. The report looks like this, and I'm holding it in my hand, and there's a lot of government agencies in it. I hope the Government has read it. Unfortunately, nothing indicates that things are getting better in Sweden, but on the contrary it is getting worse. It says in the report of misaccounting, falsification, marriages of convenience and false identities. The IRS and the Migration Agency agree on this. EU citizens are being used in a terrible way, and there are many, many examples of untrue certificates, medical certificates, medical records and all sorts of things. There is so much to do in the systems, and that is what I wanted a debate on.
i-8797265f65b59c79-99	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Katarina Brännström's description of the fact that there is still much to be done. That's the way it is, of course. But you should also remember where we come from. We are coming from a situation where the Alliance Government had opened up welfare systems to cheating and falsification in a way that I would say no other government has done. This I am not alone in having stated, but Anna Dahlberg, who is the leader writer at Expressen, wrote a column in 2015 which she started as follows: During the bourgeois years, welfare systems were opened wide open to cheating and crime. "The title is" Naiva bourgeois has made the bed for criminals, and in the text she goes through asking for a question in which, during the period of alliance, systems were created that were just very easy to circumvent and cheat with. This applies, for example, to the establishment pilots and job coaches at Arbetsförmedlingen, which opened up for full-scale trade in population register addresses. There were even rumours of other types of crime; there was evidence that the job coaches and the starters were engaged in recruiting people for criminal activities – or for pure terrorism, such as IS. This also applies to the RUT and ROT systems, which were introduced without any proper control of how they could be used for cheating and falsification. In the case of new jobs, there was no ceiling on employment support, so you could hire a caretaker for 50 000 a month and then sign out two thirds of that money directly from Arbetsförmedlingen. These were just a few examples of what resulted from the eight bourgeois years. The first thing we did was to abolish the start-up slot machines and the job coaches in order to remove such risks of cheating and falsification. The second thing we did was to set a ceiling on employment support so that one could no longer hire a caretaker for 50 000. Instead, the ceiling was set at $25,000. The third thing we did, Mr President, was to appoint a special investigator – former Minister and County Governor Lars-Lars-Erik Lövdén – to go through all our welfare systems, press them and see what we need to do now to expand control activities and strengthen legislation. Lars-Lars-Erik Lövdén proposed a wide range of measures, and so far we have implemented more than half of them. More are in the process of being implemented. We reintroduced the civil record crime, which the Alliance government had removed in 2014. Today, it is again criminalized to register at an incorrect address. People's records can, of course, be used to try to milk welfare systems from money. We reintroduced the civil record crime that you had abolished, Katarina Brännström. Nowadays, the Swedish Tax Agency is making home visits. We reintroduced the civil record crime on 1 July last year, and in the second half of the year there were two complaints. So far this year, however, we have seen 885 reports of civil record offences, for the more you look and look, the more of this you discover. It will be the same for the other grant crimes, where we see a great number of dark spots. Virtually all the authorities have reinforced their work with increased controls, using the increased funds they have received. In the coming years, we will make sure to implement more of the proposals made in Lars-Lars-Erik Lövdén's investigation, as well as the proposals from several of the other investigations that are coming – including the investigation that is now looking at the coordination numbers.
i-8797265f65b59c79-108	Mr President, I would like to It's a little interesting to listen to Morgan Johansson. He spends quite a long time talking about the Alliance. It is five years since the Alliance had to leave Rosenbad, and much should have happened since then. Unfortunately, however, little has happened. The investigations that now form the basis of the work I agree with are great, but it is really too little and too late. It would have been necessary to relax the regulation between the authorities a long time ago and to allow them to cross-check registers. It should be an obligation to report – if the Swedish Tax Agency becomes aware of crime, they must not talk about it to anyone else. I have visited the police and customs as well as Arbetsförmedlingen, the Tax Agency and the Migration Agency, and everyone says the same thing: It was another time before. I believe that both the old Social Democratic Government and the Alliance were, in a sense, naive and did not understand how easy it was to exploit this. Criminals are sometimes smarter than politicians. It is so easy to send in untrue certificates and to get a coordination number by just sending an email. There are no biometric requirements, i.e. fingerprinting, eye-reading or anything else that can be done with the new technology. It takes nothing to get these numbers, and it continues here and now, today. The employment services have major shortcomings in their controls, and the reorganisation that we see is not going to improve. Untrue employment certificates and false invoices exist, and the poor labour force that is being used but also dependent on their employers will not report. The conclusion is that welfare crime is on the increase. There are major tax offences and money laundering going on. Unfortunately, the result is also that many officials in our agencies are threatened, feel threatened and exposed to both violence and other things. They also do not dare, sometimes, to do what is required out of fear of reprisals for themselves. The government should use gunfire to give the authorities real weapons against these criminals, but that is not yet happening. We're gonna wait for the investigation, and it's gonna take years. Our neighbours have effective tools and systems, but Sweden does not have them. Here we really should do something together, I think. I believe that any initiative that would be taken would go through in this House. It is the same with all technological and digital developments. That is great for us ordinary citizens, but for all criminals it is a simple tool for gaining access to allowances and allowances that they are absolutely not entitled to. It's the same at our borders. At Arlanda, for example, the border police say that it is only going straight into Sweden and that you do not know who comes into the country. Among other things, the article I referred to continues. Although the alliance government certainly did naive things that were not good, it was quite a long time ago. Something should have happened since then. We have increased crime in many areas. Gang crime and organised crime are often linked to welfare crimes. They live off our grant money. They live off tax money while committing other types of crime. This is serious. It should be an obligation to work against organised crime, and we should enter into the instructions of all the authorities to be able to de-register criminals immediately when they are discovered. We need to be able to have withdrawal times for how to get into our social welfare systems – there is also no such thing as that. We Moderates say: Don't open the whole door to welfare so easily for new immigrants. Create protective walls around our welfare systems so that it is not easy to fool oneself into benefits and benefits in this way that is happening today.
i-8797265f65b59c79-118	Mr President, I would like to I'm saying that no one has opened up welfare systems more to cheating and falsification than the Alliance government did-- it's covered--with the establishment pilots, the job coaches, the RUT and ROT systems that you didn't have any control over. No initiatives were taken at all with regard to anti-classified legislation or to change such a regulatory framework. You abolished the civil record crime. Why did you do it? We had to restore that when we got back. What we also had to do was to abolish the start-ups and job coaches, put a ceiling on employment support and much more. This is just a sample of what we've done in these years. We will be able to do much more in the coming years. Already, from 1 January 2020, a penalty for benefit offences is being imposed. The maximum sentence increases from four years to six years. Then the benefit crime is also extended to cheating with support from Arbetsförmedlingen or Försäkringskassan. It didn't before. So we're expanding the criminalised area. We are also extending the notification obligation so that it will also include pension funds, municipal grants and additional other money coming from welfare. The notification obligation of the authorities dealing with this kind of money to the police is increasing. This means that in the coming years we will find even more of cheating and falsification, because there is a great number of darkness here. When it comes to this type of crime, it's kind of like traffic and drug offences: the more the police look, the more you find. But you have to have the resources and tools that you need to look for. We will introduce traceable payments for RUT and ROT, i.e. you will not be able to handle them with cash but will have to pay by invoice, card or any other way that makes the payments traceable. We do this to reduce the risk of cheating and falsification. We've introduced traceable payments for the fresh start jobs. Before they could be handled with cash, and with there were built-in risks of cheating and falsification. As I said, this was just a sample of everything we do. Most of what we have done in Lars-Lars-Erik Lövdén's investigation has already been done, but some still have to be done. One such thing is, for example, the cheating of ID documents. There is an investigation now on our way where we centralise this, and there is a proposal for a state ID card precisely to increase control in the part where there have been very many different actors who have been able to issue ID cards. We must also tighten up that approach. We should coordinate the payments. There was also a proposal in Lars-Lars-Erik Lövdén's investigation to coordinate all payments that go out of the welfare system to a common authority. Ann-Marie-Marie Begler is now looking at how one could make such a structure to better control the money paid out. When we took office, there was no proper supervision of the LSS, I dare say. We have introduced a new law from 1 January 2019 with permit requirements where we simply raise the requirements of those who provide those services, because we know that there is also a lot of cheating and falsification. Amongst other things we have done, we have criminalised the trade in black contracts and the trade in illegal rentals in the second place. We did that last spring. The Moderates voted 'no' because you felt sorry for those who buy past sex by buying a black deal in the commons. You voted against it even though the police had requested that very tool a long time ago. On point-by-point, we go on these issues and make sure that we achieve better tools.
i-8797265f65b59c79-128	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit strange to listen to the responsible Minister Morgan Johansson. After all, we have a social democratic government that has been in office for five years, and so we talk mostly about the Alliance and what shortcomings remain from that time. There's still RUT and ROT. If it was that bad, you should have removed it, but you haven't. The problems have actually increased. It's in the government report I mentioned earlier. It does not get better despite five years of Social Democratic rule. We're running out of time. There are huge numbers of darkness in all these areas that we are talking about. We need to talk about the problems that exist now and not about what old governments have done or not done. We live in a completely different reality after 2015. We have an increase in international crime in Sweden. It is so easy to use our systems, and that is why I put the question to the minister responsible for our welfare systems. What is being done in the systems? Nothing, I'd say. Above all, it is far too easy to get our contributions. When will the austerity come so that you actually need to qualify in and so that it is possible to control people who get access to all the nice things we have in Sweden? We need to be careful of those systems. I think there is a lot of good in what Morgan Johansson says, but the question is whether it is all right to send an email and get a coordination number without proof that there is a person behind the application I have not received an answer to. I hope that this debate will continue. I thank you for the debate and the answers, and I am concerned about our well-being and really want us to tighten up in many ways – more than has emerged here today.
i-8797265f65b59c79-133	Mr President, I would like to In this last post Katarina Brännström revealed what she really wants. She's against the welfare state as such. She does not want it to continue and has moderated against welfare reforms all these years. Now she is using the cheating and falsification debate to get to the welfare state as such. That's it. In all situations, you in the Moderates have always prioritised tax cuts over welfare reforms, and you are now using this discussion. What I am pointing out is that, when you were given the opportunity to control Sweden, you opened up the welfare system for cheating and falsification. For me as a social democrat, it is extremely important to ensure that the legitimacy of the systems is maintained. When I saw that this was the case in 2015, I appointed Lars-Lars-Erik Lövdén's investigation, to make sure to stop all the holes that you had opened up in the system. It's true that RUT and ROT are still here. But now, as I said, we are introducing traceability in the handling, so that we cannot handle it with cash. It should be traceable, for example where the money comes from. You would have done away with the civil record crime. That's what we're bringing back. On the point-by-point, we are increasing the control of the systems and bringing forward new, stronger legislation from 1 January onwards, with stricter penalties for these benefit offences, increased notification obligations for other authorities to the police when something is discovered to be wrong and so on. We make sure to graze it step by step. I and Katarina Brännström differ in that Katarina Brännström wants to use the debate to access the welfare as such. I'll never do that.
i-8797265f65b59c79-139	Mr President, I would like to David Josefsson has asked me how I view the JO's criticism of the Migration Court in Gothenburg and the Court's continued ability to reduce the length of proceedings. The number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply in recent years, but the administrative courts are still facing considerable challenges. P rognoses for the coming years argue for a continued high but gradually decreasing influx of migration cases to the courts. At the same time, there is a large balance of objectives that has not yet been decided. However, the balance and thus also the length of proceedings vary between the courts, and Gothenburg has a particularly strained situation. Long waiting times put pressure on the asylum seeker, but also high costs for society. The government has taken a number of measures to improve the conditions for asylum seekers to have a faster decision while maintaining legal certainty. One such measure is that the government has recently decided on a bill with proposals to extend the possibility for the administrative courts that are migration courts to hand over cases to other administrative courts. The proposal aims to improve the conditions for the courts to keep the duration of proceedings at a reasonable level by taking advantage of the overall capacity of the general administrative courts. However, in the 2019 budget decided by the Riksdag, the Moderates and Christian Democrats allocated just over 74 per cent of the migration courts' needs on the basis of the forecast submitted in autumn 2018. The Government therefore needed to contribute approximately SEK 200 million in the spring change budget for 2019. The Government also proposes a contribution of SEK 122 million in the budget bill for 2020. All in all, I therefore assess that the government has improved the conditions for the migration courts to shorten the processing times, although the challenges remain great.
i-8797265f65b59c79-145	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! In June this year, the Ombudsman criticised the Migration Court in Gothenburg for the length of the asylum proceedings. In the individual case that the JO criticised, the duration of proceedings was one year and three months. At the same time, the Court stated that the average duration of proceedings for reasons of protection or asylum was between 17 and 21 months. The individual case that was up for the JO's review and received criticism was thus by no means unique. The Government responds in the media as well as here and now that the Government's proposal to move cases between different courts together with the Government's budget supplements have improved the conditions for the Migration Courts to shorten the processing times, although the challenges continue to be high. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the possibility of redistributing cases is increasing is, of course, a good thing. However, that and the government's contribution would be sufficient is not an assessment made locally at the Migration Court in Gothenburg or nationally at the Swedish National Court of Justice. Instead, the National Court of Justice says that without a supplement for 2020 of around SEK 300 million, reductions will have to be made, and the processing times risk being year-long. The fact that the measures will be sufficient is also not the picture I get when I talk to lawyers who work with migration issues in Gothenburg, among other things. In Gothenburg, there are, among other things, reductions in some thirty notary services that will disappear. These are services that are important in the recruitment and skills management work of the Court. Recruiting competent rapporteurs in the field of migration law is one of the areas of concern described by the Court in its response to the Ombudsman for Justice. So notarial services play an important role. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister of Justice was how he views the Ombudsman's criticism and the Court's continued ability to reduce the length of proceedings. My follow-up question to the Minister for Justice is: does he think that the possibility for courts to reduce the length of proceedings and thereby avoid further criticism from the Parliamentary Ombudsmen will be improved by, among other things, the disappearance of some thirty notary posts?
i-8797265f65b59c79-151	Mr President, I would like to You should know the background. The number of asylum seekers to Sweden has fallen sharply. This means that once you get over the humps in the different systems you can reduce the staffing. We built out heavily when we were at the top of the hump. In order to use taxpayers' money effectively, it is now necessary to reduce staffing when one sees that one is past it. We have significantly reduced the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. The number of asylum seekers is currently at the lowest level in 13 years, not only in number but also in proportion. When the Moderates ruled, Sweden received 15% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. They came to Sweden. Today that figure is 3%. The proportion of asylum seekers coming to Sweden has thus overall decreased over these years. It is a consequence of the austerity we did in autumn 2015, with the border controls and with the ID controls, which the Moderates, incidentally, did not manage to vote in favour of. They abstained on the ID checks. However, I claim that it was one of the most important measures to control that situation, along with the temporary law that entered into force in 2016. Today, as I said, we've passed the hump. As far as the number of asylum applications is concerned, we did so a long time ago. When it comes to the number of decisions of the Migration Board, we did so a couple of years ago. Now we have passed the hump also in terms of the number of appeals in court. The increase in the number of cases was met by a rather large increase in the appropriations allocated to the migration courts. The number of employees at the Migration Courts nearly doubled in 2014 – 2018, to over 800 that we had last year. As a result, in 2018 it was possible to determine 17,000 targets. That's the highest number ever. Since it was an exceptional situation, when so many came here, the processing times have also been suspended. But now, as I said, targets are being grazed after goals. Mr President, I would like to A problem arose when the Moderates and Christian Democrats received their budget bill. At the time, the immigration courts did not give them the means they needed. They had requested SEK 940 million for 2019. The Moderates and Christian Democrats gave them 691. It was therefore an under-financing of the migration courts for this year of SEK 250 million – a quarter of a billion, Mr President. My question to David Josefsson is: If he is so concerned about the situation in the migration courts, why did he not ensure that the Moderates and Christian Democrats provided the migration courts with the money they needed last year? Why were the migration courts underfunded with a quarter of a billion dollars for 2019? It could afford to reduce the tax by 20 billion, but it could not afford to finance the migration courts as they would have needed. Mr President, I would like to Instead, the first thing we had to do, when we could take up again, was to reinforce and go in with more money. We came to power again in January, and in our amending budget, which we then presented, we submitted an additional SEK 200 million to the Migration Courts, and for next year we will add another SEK 122 million. So we are gradually strengthening this. Moreover, the balance, as it stands at the moment, is tending to decline. Last year, the number of cases that had not been decided was over 13 000. At the end of this year, they will be around 7 000, i.e. almost a half overall. So, Mr President, we are working on a case-by-case basis.
i-8797265f65b59c79-160	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me begin by answering the question. The Minister of Justice tells me that in the M-KD budget we did not provide enough money in the previous year because we reduced the tax. Then he asks me a counter-question about it. But would this be an excuse for not spending enough money and lowering the military tax? This is a line of argument that is a little too low for this House, I think. After all, we are going to talk about the substance of how we view the migration courts' ability to pass the processing times. I have full respect for the Minister of Justice if he makes the assessment that the length of proceedings will be passed by the means provided by the government. It's an opinion you get. However, I have to say on the record that I myself do not share the view of the Minister for Justice, but I believe in the lawyers who are active in the matter of the fact that, unfortunately, the length of proceedings will be longer. Having said that, there are many aspects to the problems of the long processing times in migration cases which must nevertheless be addressed. The most obvious is the human. To stay or not to stay in Sweden as an asylum seeker is vital for the person concerned or for those waiting for information on, for example, family reunification. Another aspect is the poor economic. The state has costs for asylum seekers, including housing, during the time the cases are handled. The longer the duration of proceedings, the higher the costs, Mr President. This also means that savings on the migration courts at one end are at risk of cost to the state at the other end. Having people in line is rarely a good idea, and the risk is obvious that what you gain from the swings you lose on the carousel. Another aspect concerns legal certainty and integration. I believe that short processing times and effective courts mean both greater legal certainty for the individual and greater opportunities for integration for those who get a positive ruling. Based on the fact that both the Migration Court in Gothenburg and the Court of Justice warn that the government's budget will mean cuts and extended processing times, I think the government is playing a high game, Mr President. In the long run, it may even be a saving to give the National Court of Justice the entire grant it requires to address the processing times, which have been criticised by the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, among others. It reduces waiting for the individual and increases the possibility of integration. This is also one of the reasons why we have chosen in our draft budget to provide money on the basis of what the Court of Justice has requested.
i-8797265f65b59c79-167	Mr President, I would like to Would it be low for me to ask David Josefsson to take responsibility for his own decisions? The situation was that the Moderates and Christian Democrats trumped through a budget motion with the support of the Swedish Democrats. In the underfunded migration courts with SEK 250 million for this year. That's the situation, and that's it. I just asked you a question about it. If you now want to reduce the length of proceedings and make sure that more people can be employed, you cannot do so, but you have to agree to be held accountable for your actions when you enter an interpellation debate. This isn't at all low. On the contrary, it is an information to the public so that it is told what game the Moderates play here. You in the Moderates are underfunding essential authorities, and when the result is then too bad, you blame the government. It doesn't work, and you can't get away with it in an interpellation debate. That's just the way it is. Let's get back to the point. The first thing we had to do when we took office in January was to raise another $200 million, that is, the money that the Moderates had not provided. Next year, as I said, there will be another 122 million. I see, of course, that the situation of the migration courts continues to be strained. I see we're over the hump. Balances are falling. I have noted that the balance of pending cases at the end of 2018 was at 13,000. It is forecast that by the end of 2019 the n will be 7,100, and by 2020 it will be 5,800 targets. So we see a gradual reduction in the forecasts for balances. This suggests that we have gotten over the hump that we had for a few years after a lot of asylum seekers came here. When you listen to David Josefsson you might almost think that for next year he has allocated the money that the migration courts have requested. But he has not, but he has also underfunded. He does add some money, but not to the extent requested by the immigration courts. In fact, he's 100 million below what they've requested. This means that he cannot go to the migration courts and say that the Moderates are now shooting at the money they would have needed. That is not true of reality, as you can see when you read the figures in the Moderate Budget Movement.
i-8797265f65b59c79-171	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that anyone can be satisfied with the length of the proceedings before the migration courts, especially in Gothenburg. On the other hand, Mr President, I do not really understand the attitude of the Government and the Minister of Justice on this issue. I sincerely hope that I am wrong and the Minister for Justice is right that the government's budget will mean a reduction in the length of proceedings at the migration courts in Sweden in general and in Gothenburg in particular, as the Minister says. However, if you listen to the Court of Justice and the Migration Court in Gothenburg or to migration lawyers, there is nothing to suggest that you have passed the hump and that the processing times will now go down. To be honest, it seems only the Minister of Justice himself believes that he is right and I am wrong. Thank you for the debate. I think we all agree that the processing times should be short, but I do not think we really agree on the way there.
i-8797265f65b59c79-174	Mr President, I would like to One must be prepared in a debate such as this to defend one's position. The background is that at this time last year Sweden had no government, and the Moderates and Christian Democrats were able to trump through a budget. If you do that, you have to be able to defend the effects of this. In fact, when the migration courts are underfunded by 250 million, this will have an impact, Mr President. We are now adding money. This year there will be 200 million, and next year there will be another 122 million. I can honestly say that I know that the situation is strained, not least in Gothenburg, although there is a court that has reduced the balance very sharply. There, the balance has been reduced by over 40% in just one year. So you work through the goals, goals after goals. We will, of course, have to come back to the issue of financing in future budgets too. I can guarantee David Josefsson and others that this government prioritises efforts on the administrative authorities that need to be able to function properly instead of just reducing taxes by 15 to 20 billion as the Moderates and Christian Democrats tend to do.
i-8797265f65b59c79-177	Mr President, I would like to Julia Kronlid has asked me what I intend to do to stop inhumane insurance and, instead, to facilitate people's rehabilitation, what measures I intend to take to ensure that those with mental ill health are adequately helped instead of being put at a disadvantage and mistreated in the health insurance process, and whether I would like to take the initiative of a broad parliamentary committee for long-term sustainable health insurance. Sickness insurance shall provide compensation in the event of reduced work capacity and support for returning to work. This requires an effective regulatory framework and a well-functioning process of sick leave. As part of the creation of an effective regulatory framework, the government has abolished the longer time limit in health insurance. Under the alliance government, people were insured because they had been receiving sickness benefit for two and a half years. The backlog that this meant, and which the Swedish Democrats have agreed to reintroduce, forced nearly 100 000 people to leave health insurance even though they were unable to work. At the same time, the challenges of health insurance do not stop when the deadline is removed. We have seen that the current legislation may make the decision of the Social Insurance Agency difficult to understand, which risks the legitimacy of health insurance. That's why the government has set up the investigation A safe health insurance with people at its centre. The mission shall be reported on 31 January 2020. I look forward to receiving the final report of the investigation. There is also a need for a well-functioning sick leave process that facilitates people's rehabilitation. When this fails, it is ultimately the individual who gets caught. The Social Insurance Agency, through its statutory coordination responsibilities, has a central role. Other important players are employers, trade unions, health care and the Public Employment Service. In order to strengthen the individual's possibilities for rehabilitation, the employer has been given a clearer responsibility to develop a plan of measures for return to work when an employee has been on sick leave for 30 days. This regulatory obligation is combined with contributions to employers for the purchase of workplace-oriented rehabilitation support. The Government has also proposed the introduction in 2020 of a statutory obligation for county councils to offer coordination efforts to patients on sick leave to promote return to work. No one should fall between the chairs because of lack of cooperation. A joint assignment – a zero tolerance assignment – has therefore been submitted to Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. This means that the authorities in collaboration will provide support to the individual both during and after a sick leave. The increasing mental illness is a serious social problem that the government takes very seriously. The risk of mental illness and sick leave is greatest in so-called contact professions in healthcare, school and care. These are activities where women work to a large extent. The social partners have an important role to play in reducing work-related ill health. At the government's initiative, the parties have agreed to work towards a better working environment and reduced sick leave through declarations of intent. This is a work that the government follows closely and expects results from outside. As regards Julia Kronlid's question as to whether I would like to initiate a parliamentary committee, I note that there was one between 2010 and 2015. The so-called parliamentary social security inquiry made proposals for long-term sustainable health insurance, among other things. The Government has considered and implemented several of the proposals. I do not therefore see the need for a new parliamentary committee. On the other hand, I welcome all proposals that contribute to safe and sustainable health insurance.
i-8797265f65b59c79-186	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi for his reply. It is nice to discuss health insurance with the new Minister for Social Security for the first time. The development of the health insurance system is deeply worrying. The human fates of the sick, old or disabled are innumerable. Since the Social Democrats came to power, insurance has increased. Many hoped that the Social Democrats would do better for the sick, but instead a tougher policy is now being pursued than the Alliance. There is much to criticise the policy of the previous Alliance. Although we see the need for control bodies to test people's work capacity in order to provide them with support in rehabilitation, which was also our intention to support a proposal to strengthen the rehabilitation chain, we have nevertheless landed in – and for the 2018 elections we have been clear – that we do not want to reintroduce Reinfeldt's pre-stock model. Government of Ardalan Shekarabi! You must realise that you are pursuing a policy that is worse than Reinfeldt's model of stupor. Many people today feel that there is an eating testup after six months – long before the old time limit of two and a half or up to three years – without the possibility of coming back. The government assures severely ill people, and people feel so terribly bad that there are even examples of those who have chosen to take their own life. Ardalan Shekarabi must stop blaming others and take responsibility for the actions of his own government. We've all read about Tyra Jernberg who tragically couldn't take it anymore after all the rejections from Försäkringskassan. 20 years old, she was found lifeless in her room. Her big sister Amanda says in an article in a newspaper that she misses her every second. As I understand it, today she has lit a candle for her sister. We have also been able to read in the newspapers about Erland, who had severe back pain after a truck accident and who, after the Social Insurance Agency's decision to reject the application for sickness benefit, tragically took his own life. This is terribly tragic and unimaginable. Sick leave due to mental illness, especially stress-related burnout, is increasing at a frightening pace, especially in the public sector, which the Government highlighted. The Government of Shekarabi spreads various accusations against us in the Swedish Democrats regarding our health and safety policy. But we are investing heavily in this in our budget and in our proposals, while at the same time it is you in the Social Democrats who have failed fatally to create good working conditions in the public sector. Those who pay the highest price for this today are, above all, women. On top of that, those who are already burned out and not infrequently depressed by incomprehension in a rigid system that is not adapted for those with mental illness. I believe that these worrying developments in mental health should be reason enough to resume a parliamentary inquiry. So much has happened since 2015. The Social Democrats have been in government since 2014. You have had every opportunity to reform health insurance. Instead, you have pursued an irresponsible policy. Saving money at the expense of the sick has been above all else. You refuse to take responsibility for the terrible human fates your policy has caused. Mr President, I would like to Now I would like to know whether the Minister for Social Security is prepared in new directives to clarify to the Social Insurance Agency what is the priority. Is it saving money on the sick and improving sickness statistics, or is it putting people's well-being and access to health care first and making a real difference so that fewer people have to feel so bad that they choose to take their own life? This would be an emergency measure to stop inhumane insurance.
i-8797265f65b59c79-196	Mr President, I would like to The health insurance and our social insurance should be the kitt of the Swedish model. You should be able to feel safe if you fall ill, and there should be a system that supports the person who is ill no matter what the situation looks like for you when you are affected. This is no longer the case in Sweden. Swedish health insurance has long had major shortcomings. Thousands have been insured, and thousands of people are not entitled to sickness benefits, even though they are ill. The Swedish democrats have now put this interpellation, even though they themselves are in favour of a headstock and have voted for the moderate budget on which the country is partly governed today. There's very little money for the medical allowance. It is felt that the tax gap between the sick and those who have jobs should even increase after the period that we have now. It is also remarkable that the Minister for Social Security is standing here complaining about the situation. The Social Democrats have done nothing about this in all their years in government. Rather, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has been steered in the opposite direction. The Left Party believes that the situation that we have now is a crisis that should allow everyone who wants a safe society to act. The Left Party wants us to ensure that the sick person is entitled to sickness benefit. Fighting for that right today is making people increasingly sick. People who are ill with cancer, are mentally ill or suffer from other chronic diseases are therefore less likely to be denied the right to sickness benefit and sickness benefit. We also want to ensure that you receive higher compensation if you have sickness benefit. For those who get this right, it is today very low compensation. We also want to close the tax gap between those who have jobs and those who have had the bad luck of getting sick. I've been ill myself and I've had sickness benefit. Now I'm better. Should I suffer a relapse from the chronic illness I have, I would probably not be entitled to sickness benefit today. Living with it makes you extremely worried, and I'm just one of a lot of people. My question to both the Swedish Democrats and the Minister for Social Security is: How can one recommend a precipice, such as the Swedish Democrats, and increased income differentials by not reducing the tax gap? How can we, as a government, not ensure that if people are ill, they are entitled to sickness benefit when we see what a crisis society is in?
i-Diuf7J6szeZKMrWRbhV8Zh	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Members of Parliament Julia Kronlid and Ida Gabrielsson, for their contributions to this important debate! Mr President, I would like to I just come from Coins Square where I met some of the citizens who object to the current regime of health insurance. They have protested over the last few years about the legislation and application of legislation that we have seen in the field of health insurance and how it affects the security of our insured. As I went from there to this House, I promised myself: here it is a matter of standing up for an honest debate in this House. It is important to be honest with the citizens. Let's be honest about what we're gonna do. I would also urge my opponents to be honest with the citizens about what they want to do. I became Minister of Social Security just over six weeks ago. My mission from the country's Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, is to strengthen health insurance and increase the security of the insured. This means that we recognise that things need to change in health insurance, and the change needs to be in a better direction. It's this mission I've been given by my boss. But now it is not only the country's Prime Minister who sends signals to ministers and ministers. This House also has the opportunity to send signals to the government, Mr President. Here we have received a very clear position from the House which, according to our Constitution, I must relate to. I will be honest and read out the announcement, the position that this House has sent to me and the government so that the citizens know where we stand in this debate and so that the debate is not based on a dishonest premise, but on total openness and honesty towards our citizens. The Swedish Parliament has decided on the following: Control bodies of various kinds including time limits reduce the use of health insurance both directly via the controls themselves and indirectly via driving forces not to want to be controlled. Regular monitoring of the occupational capacity of the insured person should be carried out throughout the illness until a shorter time limit. The Government should return to the Riksdag with legislative proposals in accordance with the aforementioned. Mr President, I would like to My mission from the Prime Minister is to strengthen health insurance. On 31 January, I will have an inquiry at my desk into how we strengthen the right to sickness benefit and deal with the difficult issue of the ability test after 180 days of human suffering. But the Riksdag has sent me the task of re-establishing the far parentheses, the far limit of health insurance. The Parliament has given me the task of reducing the conditions for the insured. I won't. The government's job is to stand up for our citizens. Our citizens deserve safer health insurance. I call on Julia Kronlid to be honest with the citizens! Do not hide the issues behind any vague demands for new investigations! What I now read out is a decision by the Riksdag calling on the Swedish Government and me as Minister of Social Security, which was made possible by the support of the Swedish Democrats. If now the Swedish Democrats are concerned about health insurance, which would have been good: Why do I have this decision on my table? Why has the House, led by the Swedish Democrats, called for us to reintroduce the extra limit in health insurance instead of improving health insurance?
i-8797265f65b59c79-213	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ardalan Shekarabi, for listening to the criticism! The government says he is prepared to do something about this. Right now, there is no more time limit. I want the Minister to be aware that, despite this, there have been more insurance policies. More are secured today than during the time of the Alliance and earlier than at the later time limit. People have time to get rejected, to be insured out and feel so terribly bad that they even take their own lives before they even reach the earlier time limit. It is Ardalan Shekarabis's responsibility in the government of the Social Democrats. We in the Swedish Democrats have taken on board a great deal of the concerns about the longer deadline and the previous precipice. We've had an internal investigation in our party. In the 2018 election we went out clearly and said in Svenska Dagbladet and in our election manifesto that we do not want that precipice back. In the announcement, there was nothing about the number of days or the type of time limit it would be. It is a good thing that the Swedish democrats have developed their politics. Doesn't Ardalan Shekarabi think that's good? In this year's vote, we will not vote for the Moderates' proposal. We are going to vote for our policy in favour of more control stations, a good rehabilitation chain, but not Reinfeldt's headstock. I would like to remind Ardalan Shekarabi that when the Alliance was in the government, we in the Swedish Democrats were involved in bringing down the alliance government. We were even prepared to raise a motion of censure against the then Minister of Social Security in order to get a softer assessment at day 180. It is about people not being tried against a fictitious labour market at day 180 where it is said: You could get a job where you can rest a lot, therefore you do not get any sickness benefit. We think that the assessment at day 180 is totally untenable. The problem is that although the Social Democrats then, when we convicted the Alliance, said that we should have a softer assessment at day 180, today a tougher assessment is being applied at day 180 than ever. At last year's motion committee, we in the Swedish Democrats put forward a proposal for a further softer assessment at day 180. You shouldn't be tried against fantasy jobs in a fictitious labour market. You should be tested within your own area of competence and against actual jobs that exist for real. If you are unable to return to work within your area of competence, you must continue to receive safe sickness benefit. If you have permanent reduced work capacity, you should be able to receive sickness benefit more easily. Today it is just as difficult to get sickness benefits as to penetrate a needle's eye. It has become much more difficult to receive sickness benefits since the Social Democrats came to power than when the Alliance was in power. We have also proposed a number of other proposals. We have proposed that we increase the basic level of sickness benefit. The Social Democrats should take this seriously. It is time for the government to stop blaming our policies and instead take responsibility for its own actions. Today, for example, we have a situation in which a woman with cancer who has had a cardiac arrest several times, and who is sitting here in the gallery listening today, was insured and urged to sign up for the Arbetsförmedlingen while she was in a ventilator in a hospital. Is that a fair order? Shouldn't such a severely ill cancerous woman receive sickness benefit, Ardalan Shekarabi? Wouldn't that be reason enough to get all the parties back together, sit down at the negotiating table and grab the health insurance to get a more humane health insurance?
i-8797265f65b59c79-224	Mr President, I would like to This will be my last speech in the debate. I would like to thank Mrs Julia and the Minister for Social Security for their very words. They feel very committed here from the speaker's seat. Regrettably, the words are not backed up in either the policy of the Swedish Democrats and Julia Kronlid or in the policy of the Social Democrats and Social Security Minister Ardalan Shekarabis. There is a demand for honesty, but should it not be said that between 2014 and 2017 the number of insured persons increased by almost 500 per cent? It increased so much during this period – during a Social Democratic government – because the government directed the Social Insurance Fund in this direction. To be honest, shouldn't you say that you actually want to introduce a precipice into health insurance? Shouldn't you stand for wanting to make sure that those who work should be valued when it comes to taxes in a completely different way than those who have happened to get sick? I think this would be about being honest – if you could stand in the speaker's seat and stand for this. Instead of simply being so much in the gas, we should also be in the gas when it comes to making proposals. The Left Party wants to increase the levels of compensation. We want to ensure that the basic amount of sickness benefit is increased and we want to ensure that everyone who is ill is entitled to sickness benefit. We hope that we will soon be more than just those of us who stand here and say and also mean it in the future.
i-8797265f65b59c79-228	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Julia Kronlid and Ida Gabrielsson, for the contributions! It's not just in the words there's a commitment. I have been Minister of Social Security for six weeks, and my mission from my boss, Sweden's Prime Minister, is to make sure to change legislation and change the structure of health insurance so that we give our citizens, our insured, the security they deserve. It will require action and not just words. In two months' time, we'll have proposals on our table. Already in two months' time, we have proposals on our table on how to strengthen health insurance and how to strengthen the safety of insured persons. Mr President, I would like to I do not understand the attitude of the Swedish democrats. We are talking here about strengthening health insurance, about security and about all kinds of positions in words. But, according to our constitution, it is the positions of this House that the government should relate to. This is the position that the Swedish Democrats have voted for and which, in several areas, deals with the deterioration of health insurance, that is to say, the wrong focus on development. This is not about improvement, it is about the deterioration of health insurance. Do the Swedish Democrats want to tear down this announcement, Mr President? In that case, action should be taken in this House. There is order for this in the parliamentary order. If you want to tear down your position, you have to act. I have heard Julia Kronlid's party leader in the speaker's chair quite a few times recently talk about the amazing conservative bloc that Jimmie Åkesson often describes. It will take over our country and restore order, as he describes it. What does this bloc want, Mr President, with regard to health insurance? Let me read what parts of the conservative bloc that the Swedish Democrats want to restore order with regard to health insurance. The Moderates write about the introduction of new Karen Day 15. This means that the first day after the end of the sick pay period is unpaid. That means minus 300 million kroner. The reintroduction of the lower time limit in health insurance means minus SEK 6.7 billion. Lowering the ceiling in health insurance to 7.5 price base amounts means just over minus SEK 1 billion. A reduction in the remuneration at day 90 of 365 means minus 1.5 billion in 2020 and 1.6 billion in 2021 and 2022. Lowering the compensation ceiling for unemployed people on sick leave means minus SEK 200 million. What are these proposals to finance? What will the insecureness of the insured fund? Yes, it will finance the efforts you want to make on reduced taxes for those who are not on sick leave. Mr President, I would like to What does the second party that the Swedish Democrats want to restore order with, the Christian Democrats, want to do? They want to reintroduce a shorter time limit in health insurance, and they propose a reinforced job tax deduction that affects those who are on sick leave. Are these the parties with which the Swedish Democrats want to cooperate? Yeah. Is that consistent with what Julia Kronlid says in the speaker's chair? No. Is this announcement that the Swedish Democrats have voted and sent to me as Minister of Social Security consistent with what Julia Kronlid says? No. Does Julia Kronlid have an obligation, Mr President, to be honest with the Swedish people and with those insured? Yeah. Will the government act to improve health insurance? Yeah.
i-8797265f65b59c79-237	Mr President, I would like to We were told earlier that it is good not only to have committed words but also to have committed proposals. Then I think it would be more honest for Minister Shekarabi to stand and read the Swedish Democrats' budget and the Swedish Democrats' proposal on health insurance. I am not moderate, and I am not a Christian Democrat. I want to be the humane voice in a conservative bloc. I certainly have a lot to criticise the other parties for, and I therefore hope that we will be as big as possible so that it is we who have the greatest influence in health insurance policy. It would be more honest of Shekarabi to read that the Swedish Democrats are investing SEK 5 billion more than the government in Category 10. It would be more honest for Shekarabi to stand and read that we are spending 100 million on raising the basic level of sickness benefit and want to make it easier to receive sickness benefit. It would be more honest of Shekarabi to actually read that we want to make the assessment v today 180 softer than it is today. It would be more honest to read out that we have proposals for a low-level study to be undertaken with the maintenance of sickness benefit. It would also be more honest for Mrs Shekarabi to read out our proposals on maintaining sickness benefit and sickness benefit to start working in small steps. There should be a more flexible way to start taking small steps into working life if you have that ability. There are many proposals that we have in an announcement that we have put forward here in Parliament and that the Social Democrats have voted against. As regards the previous announcement, it should be a clear signal to the government that we are now going to vote against the Moderates' proposal on Reinfeldt's headstock. Now, instead, we have our policy and our proposal that we went to elections in 2018. It would be more honest of Shekarabi to stand here and read it out. After the debate here, I will go out and meet various people who stand here today in the manifestation. It's good that Shekarabi has also been out to meet them. I hope that the Government will take on board the extremely touching fate that is hiding behind these people.
i-8797265f65b59c79-245	Mr President, Julia Kronlid. I think it is a good thing that the Swedish Democrats and the representatives of the Swedish Democrats also meet the people who protest because they want to see greater welfare and security in our country. I think that we should all make sure that there are more such meetings and more such positions. Mr President, I would like to The reason I read the Moderate and Christian Democrats draft budget in an interpellation debate with a Swedish Democrat is that the Swedish Democrats voted for the Moderate and Christian Democrats budget, and that is the budget that applies for 2019. Beautiful words, Mr President, do not provide good health insurance. Beautiful suggestions don't provide good health insurance. What counts in this House is what button the Member of Parliament presses when it is a vote. That is what makes laws, and that is what decides on the budget. Once it was in December 2018, when Julia Kronlid was sitting here and when Swedish-democratic MPs were sitting in this Chamber to decide on the 2019 budget, it was not the Swedish Democrats' budget that was voted for. It voted for a moderate and Christian-Democracy budget which also strengthened the tax gap between those insured who are not in a position to work right now and those who are working right now. That is why it is honest to raise that debate. If you're willing to reconsider, that's a good thing. Once again, however, it is not fine words and fine proposals that matter, but how to take a stand in this House and how to vote. We, the government, intend to act to strengthen health insurance, and we stand by that.
i-8797265f65b59c79-250	Madam President, I would like Linda Lindberg has asked me if I intend to influence today's regulations on maternity care visits so that it allows both parents to receive compensation for attending maternity care during the entire pregnancy process. Furthermore, she has asked me whether I intend to promote a statutory right to leave for both parents for maternity visits and whether I intend to take measures to ensure that all pregnant women have a better chance of reducing stress and improving health late in pregnancy. I would like to start by thanking Linda Lindberg for addressing these urgent issues. All prospective parents should be given good conditions for a safe pregnancy. The foundation for an equal parenthood is laid early. Society's support should be organised so that the conditions for such parenting are good. Just as Linda Lindberg describes in her interpellation, the government has recently improved the opportunities for both parents to participate during maternity visits during pregnancy. Since 1 January 2019, both parents are legally entitled to leave paid for visits to maternity care during the 60 days closest to the expected delivery. In connection with the proposals, the government argued that it is during the latter part of the pregnancy that visits become more frequent and that the need for support and reconciliation can be assumed to be greater closer to childbirth. The Government intends to follow the collection of parental allowance for visits to maternity care. Any future changes to the regulatory framework should take place when there is a picture of how this new option is used. Linda Lindberg proposes in her interpellation a pregnancy allowance, a new kind of benefit of ten days to all pregnant women, which could be used during the 30 days closest to the expected delivery. Today, in order to support women who have reduced working capacity due to pregnancy, we have the benefit of maternity benefit. The social security inspection has previously concluded that there is a problem of distinction between maternity benefit, sickness benefit and parental benefit. They also argue that it is questionable whether the maternity allowance constitutes sufficient support for women who have reduced working capacity due to pregnancy. The rules of the pregnancy allowance were designed at a time when working life was different. For example, only physically strenuous work, not psychologically stressful work, can establish the right to maternity benefit. In 2016, the Government appointed, among other things against this background, the Modern Parental Insurance Report, which was tasked, among other things, with looking at whether the rules on maternity benefit were sufficiently adapted to today's working life and whether they provided adequate protection for women who have reduced working capacity at the end of their pregnancy. The investigation suggested extending the benefit period with maternity benefit. Pregnancy allowance could be provided with the proposal at the latest until the estimated date of birth of the child. The study also suggested that the income ceiling of the pregnancy allowance should be raised from 7.5 to 8 prism amounts. The proposals have been received positively by several consultation bodies and are currently being prepared within the Government Office. Pregnancy is an important period, and support for pregnant women should of course work in the society we have today. However, the Government believes that any improvements in this support should be made within the existing benefits.
i-8797265f65b59c79-257	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for the fine answer. I am pleased that the Social Democrats also think that maternity care and maternity allowance are important issues. The government often talks about the importance of shared parental responsibility and has with different incentives, not least through parental insurance, fought for and pointed out how important it is for the father to take greater responsibility for children and domestic work. I cannot but agree that joint responsibility is the absolute best thing, but I would also like to believe that many families actually have it in one way or another. What I want to say, however, is that an absolutely evenly distributed withdrawal of parental days is not the solution in substance, but that we in the law should provide equal opportunities without governing who does what for us is prioritised. The thing is, however, that with today's regulations it is not the same as for prospective parents when it comes to the issue of maternal health visits. On this issue, the government has landed quite wrong. Madam President, I would like Ensuring that both parents are given the same conditions during the pregnancy itself does not seem to be the same priority for the government, as it landed in offering this only the last two months. It is believed that it is only at the end of the pregnancy that visits become more frequent, and perhaps so. But for the couple who are expecting a child, it is at the beginning that curiosity is greatest and the most important visits are made. I recently read about Peter and his common-law spouse who lost their unborn child a week before the expected birth, which of course took them extremely hard. They are now waiting for children again, and Peter's desire to be truly supportive alongside his cohabiting partner throughout pregnancy has not proved quite obvious and simple. Peter applied to his employer for paid leave for visits scheduled for maternity care until birth, which was rejected. This is the effect of the law. It makes it impossible for the partner to be involved in the planned visits. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats believe that there must of course be conditions for parents to do this together – to be able to share the first visits when the pregnancy is determined, to be able to share the first ultrasounds where both positive and negative messages can come. Anything else would be strange, not least from the perspective of gender equality. As things stand today, the father's participation depends entirely on his workplace, on his relationship with his boss and on how the various collective agreements are written. I may think that Swedish law is weak and out-of-date on this issue and believe that the right to paid leave for both parents should be governed by Swedish law and not determined by the employer. We have proposed an amendment to the law giving both parents the right to both leave and compensation right from the start of pregnancy. The Social Democrats say no to this. What they also said no to was the introduction of ten pregnancy days that can be taken out the last month before delivery. These days should be included in our proposal regardless of the workload, without assessment, and the allowance should be paid as temporary parental benefit. Today's assessment of the right to maternity benefit is quite different, and the signals from many prospective parents are that it is simply sprawling. Furthermore, as the Minister mentioned in the reply, the last 11 days of pregnancy allowance are not entitled. I'm glad you're looking into it. Our legislative changes would allow parents to decide for themselves from the beginning of pregnancy. It gives the family good preparation, and the mother doesn't have to work on it until the end. Madam President, I would like It should really be in our interest here in the Swedish Parliament to get this right. Or does Minister Shekarabi think it's good that we have a law on maternal care that looks like this?
i-8797265f65b59c79-267	Madam President, I would like I thank Linda Lindberg for the question and the speech. This is an important issue. I believe that everyone benefits from the fact that there is a strong commitment to these issues in this House. One of the major strengths in our society and with the Swedish model is that we have such well-developed parental insurance, which has also contributed to a more equal parenthood. It's a profit not just for fathers, but for society as a whole. Parental insurance is something we should be very proud of. We are going to care for it and protect it, but we are also going to develop it. What Linda Lindberg does is point to an area where we need to act to further improve an insurance policy that is fundamentally inspiring for the rest of the world. As we have already mentioned, we have just introduced improved insurance in this area. Since 1 January 2019, both parents are therefore legally entitled to leave with compensation for visits to maternity care during the first 60 days closest to the expected delivery. However, as we have heard, there are still parts of the need for insurance that need to be developed. We have had an investigation that has done a solid job on the development of parental insurance. This study also includes the related issues involved in Linda Lindberg's question. We have referred this investigation, and there seems to be strong support for us to move in the direction that the investigation proposes. The message I can give today is that we will be working on the proposal. We welcome the fact that there is a debate in Parliament on these issues, because I am convinced that this should be an area in which parties across block borders can vote for a change that will strengthen parents' ability to be present right from the start of pregnancy and parenthood.
i-8797265f65b59c79-273	Madam President, I would like As I said, I am pleased that Minister Shekarabi now admits that you have landed wrong on this issue. Regarding the distinction between maternity benefit, sickness benefit and parental benefit, I can agree that it is very problematic. I'll try to describe how messy things can actually get for a parent-to-be. A parent who has a heavy job is entitled to a maternity allowance, which allows him to save his parenting days. Those who do not receive maternity benefit, perhaps because they have a more psychologically stressful job, need to take time off from work and use their parenting days. This means that it has fewer days left once the baby is born. At the same time, the person who is granted pregnancy benefit with the current system will be completely unpaid for the last 11 days and then forced to either go home without compensation, apply for sickness benefit or use their parenting days. This is unnecessary bureaucratic hassle, Madam President. The introduction of our ten-day proposal removes a large part of the problem. It will also be fairer for those who are not granted pregnancy benefit. But I'm going back to the issue of maternal health visits. I spoke earlier about Peter, who applied for pay leave. According to a round call made to 50 different government agencies, 43 are responsible for granting paid leave for maternity visits only to pregnant people. I will mention some of the government agencies that give time off to the pregnant but not to the partner: Arbetsförmedlingen, Discrimination Ombudsman, Public Health Agency, Försäkringskassan, Gender Equality Agency, Consumer Agency, Criminal Services, Kronofogdemyndigheten, Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work and – hold on to your hat! – The Swedish Agency for Family Law and Parental Support and the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, the Swedish Government Office, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Statistical Office. Authorities that answer that they give the right to paid leave also for the partner are the Central Student Support Board, the Finnish Transport Agency, the Swedish Transport Agency and the Inspection for Health Care. Seriously, Madam President! We therefore have government agencies operating under the government that do not rely on equality, equal treatment, to give everyone the same conditions and to see everyone as equally worth – as the Social Democrats do in terms of love. Let me repeat: the Equality Agency, the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support, the Equality Ombudsman. Madam President, I would like I would like to put the question to Minister Shekarabi: how is this possible?
i-8797265f65b59c79-282	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg! It is a matter of course in this House that when you interpellar, you take a more polemic approach to the government and the counter-debater. But the fact is that, during this term of office, and not least the last term of office, this government has been working to improve parental insurance and has taken several measures, including a measure that came into force on 1 January, which means that we are strengthening parental insurance precisely in connection with pregnancy. Does it need to be done more? Yeah. There are interesting proposals in the investigation that we have to deal with, and we intend to work on those proposals. Do we need to be ashamed of our parental leave in terms of gender equality? We have taken a few steps towards gender equality in parental insurance. That's good. It is good that the state has dared to take a stand for gender equality and that the state has acted in order to get a more equal take-out of parental insurance. Has this been uncontroversial? No. In this House there has been a lot of opposition, not least in Linda Lindberg's party, to all the proposals that are about us moving towards more equality in parental insurance. But, Madam President, I do not want to land in this polemical position. I think it is basically good that there are Members from different parties in this House who want to look after and develop parental insurance. I would be pleased, Madam President, if Linda Lindberg and other Members of this House who belong to parties that have been sceptical or negative or opponents of signals from the state to promote equality in parental insurance were prepared to reconsider. If you can move in a more equal direction, that's a good thing. It is good for the debate and good for parental insurance. I'd welcome it.
i-8797265f65b59c79-288	Madam President, I would like The big dividing line between our equality policy and the Social Democrats is that we want to create equal conditions and not be in and poach and govern what every family or individual should do. We want this, unlike the Social Democrats, who want to earmark and regulate in detail in a completely different way from what our spirit is. We want to create equal opportunities in parenthood. What the government has landed in with regard to maternal health visits, since only proposals have been made for the last two months, is that it feels that the father does not need to be involved until the last two months. That's gonna be weird. There is really no need for major reforms to change this, because it already exists. That the government may think it's okay to hand over responsibility to collective agreements and employers to control the first seven months of pregnancy is strange. Somewhere you can understand it – you hand it over to the unions and collective agreements, and Minister Shekarabi knows that it is the Social Democrats who control them. The responsibility in this matter lies with you 100%. Should our government authorities not set an example? They're supposed to be the greatest role model in the country, in my opinion. When authorities such as the Equality Agency and the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support deal so badly with the issue, I may find it worrying. These authorities, if any, should have succeeded just as well as the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency. I would say that in the meantime, as you point out with your whole hand who are the good guys and the bad guys on the issue, we are working actively to really get laws that make a difference for mothers and fathers. I think it is time that we regulate in the Social Security Code so that parents have the right to leave from the start of pregnancy. Or does Minister Shekarabi think it is reasonable for mothers to get time off with payment but not fathers?
i-HpPxbERbMuVpvHPFsRBGP8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the commitment to this issue, for the interpellation and for this debate! I can assure Linda Lindberg that we will be working on the issues that have been touched upon by the parental insurance investigation and that it will be a priority issue. I am pleased that we have already introduced an improvement since 1 January. However, I would like to make one comment on the Minutes. I heard that Linda Lindberg had an anti-union attitude in her last post. Unfortunately, one hears this quite often from Swedish-democratic debaters. For the record, this is worth saying. Those who govern Swedish trade unions are the members of the trade unions. They should have great respect for their work, their voluntary commitment and their membership. Trade unions have meant that Swedish employees have improved over the last 100 years – clearer improvements, higher wage increases and better working environment than in comparable countries where unions do not have the same strong position. We would rather need to strengthen the position of the trade unions in order to ensure that Swedish employees continue to take part in the growth and development of the working environment. Some trade unions have organised cooperation with the Social Democrats. But many trade unions – and this seems to the Swedish Democrats not even think about – have no political interaction with any party. The trade unions belonging to the TCO and Saco collective have no political interaction with our party. But this picture is given by the Swedish Democrats, and it is important that it is recorded on the record that we have great respect for Swedish trade unions and defend the Swedish party model. Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the interpellation!
i-8797265f65b59c79-298	Madam President, I would like Mr Zander has asked me whether I intend to initiate a reform of the income base for the calculation of sickness benefit-based income in accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary social security inquiry. The proposal for a reform of the income base of the parliamentary social security inquiry is being prepared in the Government Office. The study's proposal is based on the introduction of similar data, which are now available in the form of data at individual level in the employers' declaration. The obligation to submit an employer's declaration at individual level became fully applicable on 1 January 2019. On 13 September 2019, the report on safer entrepreneurship in a changing working life – for growth and innovation, submitted its final report Entrepreneurs in social security systems to the Government. The report shows, among other things, that the investigation considers that a number of areas should be further investigated. One such area is how sickness benefit-based income is determined for self-employed workers. On the basis of the report, the government will continue its efforts to create a more secure and predictable security system for companies.
i-8797265f65b59c79-300	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, I must be frank and say that I think the Minister has misunderstood my question. The fact that since 1 January the Swedish Tax Agency has had the opportunity to submit employers' declarations has nothing to do with my question. My question is about how to determine sickness benefit-based income, i.e. how to determine the financial compensation from our social security systems. The fact that the Swedish Tax Agency was given this opportunity from 1 January this year has to do with the desire to prevent cheating, falsification and irregularities. And it's really important-- I really want to say that. But as I said, it is a completely different matter and not what I mean. My question concerns what was asked to do in the parliamentary social security inquiry: to investigate and propose how to have their allowances assessed in a much simpler way. It was in April 2015, five years ago, that investigation presented its proposal. Since then nothing has happened – or perhaps some small things, but nothing that affects the opportunities for entrepreneurs, for example, to know what to get in compensation when they need it. This study proposed a fundamentally revised, clear, simplified, detailed and accurate proposal on how the compensation could be calculated. It was, the minister should know, about historical EGI. This means that each month the taxable income would be reported to the Tax Agency. In this way, it would not have to be complicated to figure out what it would be like. This would mean simplifying the administration of businesses and employers. Entrepreneurs would know what compensation they would receive. The self-employed, such as those who receive help from Frilan's Finance and similar companies, would know. Those who have irregular working hours and, for example, work hours in health care would know what they were given, and it would not be dependent on if you happen to be ill on a day off. Unfavourable working hours, individual firms, combinators – everything would be easier if you got historical EGI. In his reply, the Minister points out that a few months ago there was an investigation and that it would continue to investigate this. That can't be true! Companies have waited long enough – for five years – to get simplification and to know what compensation to receive. What else needs to be investigated, the Minister says? What in the detailed proposals of the Arlamentary Social Security Investigation should be further investigated? I wonder, and the entrepreneurs in particular wonder.
i-8797265f65b59c79-306	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Zander, for this strong commitment to our social security, not least linked to the self-employed. These are important issues, and I look forward to close cooperation so that we can use the mandate to take measures to improve social security for entrepreneurs too. However, for the sake of order, I shall say that it is the Ministry of Industry that is responsible for the investigation that specifically concerns the conditions of entrepreneurs. But we can look at the proposals of the parliamentary social security inquiry in general. It was actually a step-by-step introduction of a new sickness benefit-based income based on actual income. This applies to persons with an income from employment and thus does not apply to entrepreneurs with an income from economic activity. Then we can see – and here the question of the employer's declaration comes in – that it is only with the introduction of an employer's declaration at individual level that there are conditions for such a system as the Social Insurance Committee proposed, but linked to employment so it does not specifically solve the issue raised by the interpeller Solveig Zander. The introduction of such a model has, of course, quite significant consequences. Although it is essentially a question of modernising and updating the regulatory framework, we see that it has a number of consequences that need to be further explored so that we do not take measures that have undesirable effects. There is, among other things, a potential conflict between predictability for the individual and administrative efficiency on the one hand and adaptation for different situations, i.e. flexibility of the system, on the other. So we need to keep working on this issue. It is not as simple as simply implementing the proposal; it requires quite extensive impact assessments. It is only when we have the system that is now being put in place that we will have the opportunity to work on this issue. It is very good that an employer's declaration at individual level has now made possible the next step in the development of our social security policies. As I said, that proposal will not solve the specific issue of entrepreneurs. We will therefore, in parallel, be focusing, together with our friends at the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry, on the issues relating to the conditions for entrepreneurs in social security. There, of course, I intend to do what I can together with Solveig Zander and other Members of Parliament, and we will also have a close dialogue with the organisations that organise entrepreneurs in order to focus on the right issues from the perspective of entrepreneurs. But the objective of the government and parliament must be to have as neutral a system as possible, which offers people the security they deserve whether they are employees or entrepreneurs. Then there are plenty of technical obstacles, and we must be able to get past them. I am convinced that during this parliamentary term we can take a few steps in this direction and improve the conditions and security of our entrepreneurs, which contribute to the prosperity and prosperity that are so important to our nation.
i-8797265f65b59c79-313	Madam President, I would like Now I say the minister is wrong. In the parliamentary social security inquiry, in which I myself participated, there were, as the Minister says, proposals that it should be carried out in stages and that it should depend on the employers' declaration. But that does not mean that you have to wait five years to get the gradual introduction in place. The consultation bodies which spoke at the time were all extremely in favour of the proposals of the parliamentary social security inquiry. And, among other things, the Entrepreneurs said: Let us now take this in steps, because we are not prepared to do this at once. Today, however, they say that no human could have thought that they would have to wait five years. In addition, the Minister is now responding that further investigations are needed. Then you have to wait five more years! Does the Minister know why you don't want to wait? Well, when different types of entrepreneur, for example, want to take out parental benefit or sickness benefit, the Försäkringskassan makes a calculation on each occasion to determine the compensation to be paid. This means that you are reluctant to start a business today, because you have no idea what the security systems would give if you were to end up in that situation. Speaking of gender equality, which the Minister has discussed here before, we also know that women are the ones who are most reluctant to start a business, because they do not know what the security systems should give. We need more companies in our country, because that means more jobs. It is therefore very important to introduce historic EGIs. The Minister himself must say that is important. Is that something that the Minister would like to change? What does the Minister think should be done now and that would need to be investigated again and again? It cannot be that we have to wait even longer. In the parliamentary social security inquiry, we actually agreed on the directives. At that time the Social Democrats were also very much involved in developing the investigation directives, which the investigation then followed to the letter. But I take it that the government's delay, which does not introduce historic EGIs for everyone, including entrepreneurs, is due to the fact that it does not want to do so today. There can be no other reason for delaying this. In the referrals to the inquiry that came a few months ago, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Entrepreneurs and others have said: Enough! Now we actually want to see something concrete on the table. Does the Minister not find it shameful that nothing has been done?
i-8797265f65b59c79-321	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander, for the post! There is no mistake about the commitment. It is absolutely right that we have to deal with this issue and prioritise it. As Mr Zander says, we must act to ensure that it does not take five years. We fully agree on that. I can use my time to say the following: we will do what we can in conjunction with the Center Party, not least, to act on these issues and to ensure that, on the basis of the proposals on the table of the government, we take steps to improve the security of our entrepreneurs' social security systems. The specific proposal concerned here is, as I said, not easy to predict the consequences of. That is why further work is needed. This is also the first year in which we have experience of employers' declarations according to the new, modern approach. I can assure Mr Zander that we will focus on this issue and also be open to cooperation with other parties. Within the framework of the January cooperation, this is a perfect area, where we can both protect our social security policies and, as Mr Zander was concerned, create better conditions for economic growth and development for our country. If we manage to take a few steps– which we will do– that leads to people feeling more secure in entrepreneurship, we have also contributed to more people being able to create their own businesses, realize business ideas and thereby contribute to sustainable growth and development in our country. This also creates the conditions for a better well-being of citizens – not only for entrepreneurs affected by greater protection in social security but also for the well-being of all citizens who benefit from increased entrepreneurship. So we're going to have to work together here. I would like to welcome once again Solveig Zanders's initiative and commitment to this issue and am open to collaboration with both the Ministry of Industry and Solveig and the Center Party.
i-8797265f65b59c79-328	Madam President, I would like It was a friendly invitation from the Minister! I don't think I've ever heard the Minister be so kind and courteous before. Of course I and the Center Party are asking, because these are important questions. These are issues that are important for all our companies, for the growth of our country and for everyone who has the opportunity to get a job if we get more companies. I am also convinced that, in general terms, the business community could help us to have an historic hand in hand more quickly, because that is what this is all about. I must also make it clear that this is not one of the points of the January agreement. This should be dealt with in its own way, and we do not have any cooperation going on here. I'd really like to say that. If the Minister wants to take note of our proposals, it's going great. It is also possible to read the report of the parliamentary social security inquiry. It is quite thick, but I can recommend it, because it contains many good points of view. But I would also like to make it clear to the Minister that this is not just about sickness benefit but about all our security systems. This means a family member's allowance, rehabilitation allowance, which can be obtained as a preventive measure if you fall ill, and also pregnancy allowance, infectivity allowance and such things. There are many different benefits, and they are important for everyone, but not least for entrepreneurs and above all for those who are combinators and are both employees and have companies. With the positive attitude and the manner in which the Minister actually had in this context, I expect something to happen quickly and that we will not have to wait another five years. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-8797265f65b59c79-333	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Zander very much once again. I can assure everyone who listens to the debate that whether this is a point in the January agreement or not, I and the government will work towards cooperation so that we resolve the issue. It's really secondary whether it's a point or not. What is important is that we strengthen the security of our entrepreneurs. I hope that I have made it clear that we in the government are prepared to cooperate on this issue and that it will be an important area in which we can also develop our social security policies in close cooperation with the parties in this House who are interested in the issue.
