i-5b06ce00de9166f5-0	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Olsson has asked the Prime Minister whether he has continued to trust me and whether he intends to take any general measures to review the way in which political officials are recruited. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Mr President, I would like to The question arises from the fact that my chief of staff in the department has previously been head of Greenpeace Sweden. The head of staff is responsible for the political experts in the department and is responsible for the department's planning work. She is not responsible for nuclear safety issues, and she has no responsibility for the Radiation Safety Authority. The Chief of Staff has completed the security clearance required for the appointment. The fact that she was previously head of an environmental organization does not make her unfit for the role of Chief of Staff. My picture is that the Government Office's procedures for recruiting political officials work well.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-5	Mr President, I would like to I have originally put this interpellation to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, as he is personally responsible for appointing his government and ensuring that the members of the government have good judgment and deserve the trust of the Swedish people. It is probably so important because the Prime Minister leads a weak minority government that has an election support of only 32.7 per cent of the Swedish people. Sweden is dependent on energy – clean and climate-smart energy. A large part of this energy is produced at Forsmark's nuclear power plant – one third of the energy that Sweden needs. The Swedish parliament decides that Sweden should have nuclear power and the conditions for the production of nuclear power. It is an important democratic order when it comes to such important and difficult issues. They are difficult in that we need energy. But they are also difficult in that we need to decide on both the conditions for our energy types and the safety of the production of the different energy types. The decision is that Parliament debates and votes on what our energy policy should look like. That is how Swedish democracy works. Sweden's democracy is strong. We are among the countries in the world with the greatest freedom of the press. We are free to debate, and we have a press secrecy which means that our newspapers have constitutional protection to protect their sources. In addition, we have the right of demonstration and the right of assembly for people who want to stir up and debate. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, the Greenpeace organisation chooses to enter the safety area around Forsmark's nuclear power plant on the morning of 14 June 2010, in order to demand that Members of Parliament vote against the continuation of nuclear power as the matter would be debated on 17 June. At least 50 activists were arrested, and three were arrested – all suspects of unlawful infringements and violations of the protective laws. The activists have climbed over two fences using an old fire truck they borrowed from France. Several of those who entered the nuclear power plant made it all the way to the roof of the reactor building. Even at lunch that day, the speeding police had no control over whether any activist was still in the area. Many of the activists were foreign citizens – Danes and Germans. The police called for increased security to protect the facility, and the last activist was found after 38 hours. The police needed to request reinforcement, and the efforts were estimated to have cost the Swedish taxpayer between SEK 25 million and SEK 50 million. Annika Jacobson, as Head of Greenpeace on this occasion, was responsible for the action against Forsmark's nuclear power plants. A similar act of trespassing at Oskarshamn's 2014 nuclear power plant resulted in 40 activists being convicted of illegal intrusion into the district court. Isabella Lövin nevertheless believes that the same Annika Jacobson should have the confidence to be Chief of Staff in the Government Office. Isabella Lövin believes that it is a safe employee just because she does not directly work with the safety of nuclear power plants. But the Deputy Prime Minister still sees Annika Jacobson as a security risk, because the Deputy Prime Minister must point out that the security issues are not on Jacobson. How should the Swedish people know that Jacobson will not lead an action inside the Government Office if it serves a good purpose based on her values? That must be the way an activist thinks, that is, that the laws are not made to be followed but that one does the activities that one believes most serve the purpose?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-14	Mr President, I would like to I am not sure whether I can comment on what Lotta Olsson said. (TALMANN: You register for the interpellation debates, and as long as you stick to the subject of the debate, you can participate. ) I reacted to Lotta Olsson's interpellation, which is actually about her questioning one of civil society's most important methods and which is about civil disobedience. As you know, history is full of very great heroes who have used civil disobedience as a means to change society in a positive direction. One of the most obvious examples is, of course, Rosa Parks, who, by breaking the law, kicked off the civil rights movement. Other examples, of course, are Gandhi, Martin Luther King, and also Jesus. But there are also contemporary examples of individuals who are eager for civil disobedience and who are not found in Greenpeace. Hear and marvel, but several of them are actually found in the Moderates. Some years ago, MEPs Christofer Fjellner made a big deal out of selling snuff boxes in the European Parliament. To Aftonbladet, he explained that he was prepared to defend his entry in court if he was reported. It is civil disobedience in its essence, although the purpose may not be so noble. Another example is former Foreign Minister Carl Bildt, who smuggled a condemned student out of Afghanistan in a secret operation with the help of the Swedish government plane and thus reasonably violated several different laws both in Afghanistan and in Sweden. A third example is Tobias Billström, today the group leader of the Moderates in the Riksdag, who ignored the Swedish law for ten years by not paying a television license. He did because he didn't think that SVT produced any good programs. So one can see that history is full of those who in various noble ways have used civil disobedience as a method for changing society in a positive direction. Even now we have Moderates who are willing to break the law with a social purpose. The purpose they have can be discussed, but they are still in the Moderate Party. Given the question Lotta Olsson has asked the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister is my question: Does Lotta Olsson not think it is problematic that her own party colleagues have acted and acted against the laws that the Government and the Riksdag have produced on several occasions? It's elected politicians we're talking about, who are actually the ones who come up with and make new laws-- unlike an employee chief of staff in a department.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-23	Mr President, I would like to In the Green Party we have many politicians with experience and background in the environmental movement. For example, I have been active in both Fältbiologerna and Naturskyddsföreningen. It is no wonder that the links with the environmental movement are strong, as the Green Party is the party that drives issues around climate, environment and nature. It is in parliament and government as well as in municipalities and regions in Sweden that we run these questions the hardest. In recent weeks, the Moderates here in Parliament have in several ways attacked the environmental movement with various proposals. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that the question put by Lotta Olsson is a sort of piece of the puzzle in this. I go back in time, to October 2012. At that time, Sweden's former Minister for the Environment Lena Ek was responsible for the issue of nuclear safety. In October 2012, shortly after Greenpeace's action, Lena Ek called both the reactor owners and the Radiation Safety Authority to a meeting. In connection with that, she said to the Swedish Radio Ekot: To be honest, I am extremely annoyed that these security issues have not been resolved. ..................................................... After this meeting, when Aftonbladet asked Lena Ek if people as citizens of Sweden would be concerned about the safety of the Swedish nuclear power plants, the Minister for the Environment replied: However, there are a number of things that need to be corrected. Among other things, what Greenpeace action has highlighted is external protection. ..................................................... I myself followed the action via the media, but unfortunately I was not surprised by the poor protection of the shells, as this has come to light in the debate before. Forsmark is also located in Uppsala County, which I represent. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that the purpose of Greenpeace's action was to carry out a stress test to strengthen protection and thus prevent, for example, a terrorist organisation from successfully carrying out an attack on a Swedish nuclear power plant. In the article in Aftonbladet that I quoted earlier, former Minister of the Environment Lena Ek Greenpeace's action describes as peaceful, and finally she says: This leads me to wonder whether Lotta Olsson cannot share the analysis of the situation that the Reinfeldt government, through its Environment Minister Lena Ek, did in connection with Greenpeace's 2012 stress test.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-29	Mr President, I would like to I signed up for the debate when I took note of Mr Tovatt's speech, in which he highlighted civil disobedience as a method of influencing politics. Lorentz Tovatt said something like that civil disobedience is one of the most important methods of political influence. There is a completely different view, Mr President. Of course, like Mr Tovatt, I see that there are examples in history where civil disobedience has been absolutely necessary in order to advance political work and simply give people who have lacked civil liberties just that. However, we are not there in Sweden, Mr President. In Sweden, we have a well-functioning democracy in which all people have the opportunity to democratically, within the boundaries of the law, promote their views and push politics forward. I would say that we have a very well-functioning democracy with a free press and the opportunity to argue and discuss in this House the way we do here and now. We have active environmental organisations that are important to highlight the environmental debate and which, of course, have been important in bringing Sweden to the position we are in today, where we across party and block boundaries for an ambitious environmental policy and have come to the stage that Sweden has the world's most ambitious climate goals. I think it is extremely important to mark against civil disobedience, i.e. criminal activity, in Sweden. It is about some people taking the liberty of using criminal methods to pursue the views that he or she thinks are important. I think we should point that out against. That is why, of course, I find it remarkable that the government here has made a representative of Greenpeace, who uses civil disobedience as a key part of his political work, a leading political official in the Government Office. I'm sure she's passed the security clearance, and she may not be working directly on these issues either, but I think it's remarkable that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action obviously doesn't see any problems with this. Of course, I share the view of the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change that one should be able to have a past in environmental organisations if one is a political official in the Government Office. That's for granted. In my view, however, Greenpeace is not just an environmental organisation, Mr President. It is an organization that consistently believes that it has the right to break the law for its very purposes. I find that extremely problematic. We must safeguard democracy, and I think it is a democratic problem – and not, like Lorentz Tovatt, a democratic asset – when someone is breaking the law. That is my firm opinion. I find it regrettable that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action is not more clearly opposed to civil disobedience. We know, however, that the Green Party has not dealt with these criminal practices, and this debate is proof of that. The Green Party still has civil disobedience as an important part of its party programme. I therefore call on the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action to take a clearer stand for democracy and, therefore, against criminal tools, which civil disobedience actually is.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-36	Mr President, I would like to I note that Mr Hultberg did not disapprove of the type of civil disobedience that the representatives of the Moderates have engaged in with regard to the television licence and snus sales within the EU. I will, however, return to what the interpellation is about. My Chief of Staff is responsible for the personnel of the political experts in the Ministry, and, like all employees at the Government Office and the Ministry, she is responsible for implementing the Government's policy, including the policy the Government has agreed with the Center Party and the Liberals through the January Agreement. That's what everyone in the department is supposed to do, regardless of background or political opinion, and so is the Chief of Staff. I'm the chief of staff, and I decide the political direction of the work at the department. Within the government, the work is so distributed that I am responsible for nuclear safety and radiation protection, while another minister has responsibility for nuclear energy as an energy source. This division of roles is important to ensure that the interest in nuclear energy as an energy supply is not confused with the strong interest in nuclear safety and nuclear safety. That is why this is divided into two different ministers. In this division of roles, I shall take a critical approach to the safety of nuclear power. As politicians, the starting point of my party and my party is that we are very concerned about the safety of nuclear power. In my role as responsible Minister of State, it is the government's overall policy that decides. Is illegal interference with nuclear power plants okay? No, it's not – illegal acts are not okay. If we are to point out shortcomings in the safety of nuclear power, we should do so legally. The unlawful infringements referred to by Lotta Olsson have disrupted the operations of the facilities and had financial consequences. So far, however, they have not had any serious safety implications for the public. On the other hand, measures have been taken following the infringement to increase security and protection against future infringements. Various supervisory measures have been taken. There are now demands for guarding with dogs and armed guards, and the police have had to strengthen their ability to respond and interact with the defence in order to ward off antagonistic attacks from foreign power or from terrorist activities. What, then, has happened with regard to the legal aftermath of the infringements committed by the Greenpeace organisation? An international review of the Swedish system was carried out in 2012. A follow-up review showed that nuclear security at an overall level is well developed and has continued to develop with several good examples of high international standards. A collaboration group has been established under the direction of the Radiation Safety Agency. In addition, a number of regulatory measures have been taken which have increased the safety of our nuclear power plants, both in terms of monitoring and supervision itself and in terms of direct safety-enhancing investments in the nuclear reactors themselves. One of these is independent core cooling, which should be able to operate for 72 hours if the power plant's own power supply is shut down or if the sea becomes so hot that the cooling systems do not work. This is for safety.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-47	Mr President, I would like to A democratic society must be constantly protected and nurtured. It is not a natural law for us to maintain our democracy – if we are not afraid of it and stand up for it all the time, it can disappear in a relatively short time. We see in our surrounding world that even states with high prosperity and a relatively long history of democracy are breaking down and disappearing. That is why all political leaders are important in the sense that, although no human being is perfect, we must stand up for the basic foundations of democracy. When we abuse the trust we have gained from the Swedish people, it eventually undermines our democracy. When government members employ executives who use activism as a method to achieve their aims, it is not consistent with being a credible Chief of Staff at the Government Office. One cannot be in favour of activism and democracy at the same time. Does Isabella Lövin think there's any difference between trespassing on a nuclear power plant because you don't want nuclear power and getting into trouble at the Government Office? If a group considers the government to be a security threat with poor security in the government building, is it okay to drive a fire truck, trespass and draw attention to the issue? The main question is: Can you get a top job in the Government Office after this? How will ordinary decent citizens interpret this? They see that their hard-earned tax money goes to finance police operations that would have been needed elsewhere but are now being used instead to counteract activism. Should you as an employee of a nuclear power plant not be considered as important to protect as if you were working in the Government Office? It must have been a terrible experience before you realized that it was militant opinion-makers who stormed Forsmark and not terrorists. Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin defends her co-worker, and it has to stand for her. But it must be the case that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is also responsible for this – partly because he is not here to debate this, partly because Annica Jacobson is still Chief of Staff in the Government Office. Ensuring national security is the prime minister's and deputy prime minister's ultimate responsibility. The employment of chiefs of staff who advocate militant activism as an opinion form is frightening. The Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister are protected in the best possible way against external threats, but hiring without thought can no one protect them against. No, Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin, for me this is irresponsible and a dangerous way to run the Government Office. Ultimately, it is an insult to the ability of free society to conduct opinion-forming.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-57	Mr President, I would like to I had hoped that we could have a fairly sensible discussion about civil society's methods and the importance of civil disobedience, questioning certain moral aspects of this. But I now noted that Lotta Olsson went so far as to say that this is militant activism. The very foundation – the basic principle – of civil disobedience is that it is based on non-violence. This is by far the most important principle of civil disobedience. Civil disobedience is certainly not militant activism. There are four principles on which civil disobedience is based: non-violence, transparency, dialogue and transparency in order to take the punishment imposed on them for the action they have taken. The point of these four principles is to narrow this down to something that is positive for the development of society and that is not in danger of being something that is done, for example, for the sake of one's own profit. That's why I'm so confident in using this method to change society. I noticed that Johan Hultberg did not comment on any of the examples I have highlighted where party members in the Moderates have used this method. It may be because he thinks their purposes have not been noble enough, but it is nevertheless something that party members of the Moderates have used. I would also like to say that there is basically a view here that is that this is a way for minorities to stand up to a conservative majority. It is basically a liberal principle. Just think of the homosexuals who protested. They had democratic rights and freedoms, but they were still classified as sick. They no longer do so, partly because they protested and used civil disobedience. It is therefore a way of fighting back against a conservative majority. It is a perfectly reasonable method to use.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-62	Mr President, I would like to I thought what Lotta Olsson wrote in her interpellation was interesting. She quoted Annika Jacobson, who has said that civil disobedience is based on openness, non-violence and personal responsibility. Lotta Olsson also wrote in her interpellation that Annika did not manage to take personal responsibility; she could not live up to this because she did not appear at the nuclear power plant and thus was not prosecuted. Something like that Lotta Olsson wrote. This kind of claim clearly shows that Lotta Olsson has now also pointed out that Annika Jacobs on was not involved and part of the civil disobedience that took place. I think it is wrong to accuse someone of being a criminal if that is not the case. Once again, I would like to ask Lotta Olsson the same question in my last speech. Does Lotta Olsson really think it was the wrong analysis that the government Reinfeldt did through Minister for the Environment Lena Ek in connection with Greenpeace's action at the Forsmark nuclear power plant in 2012? Does Lotta Olsson not really share Reinfeldt's picture?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-64	Mr President, I would like to I think I was very clear about what I think about civil disobedience as a method in a well-functioning, well-developed democratic society like Sweden. It's not okay. I think that democratic methods should be used to influence society in the direction it finds is right and proper. This applies regardless of whether you think that taxes are too high or that nuclear power is wrong. Then, of course, the Members to whom Mr Lorentz Tovatt refers here will have to pay for their actions. But I think it is the wrong method, regardless of what purpose you think you can use civil disobedience for. I think it is problematic, to say the least, that the environment and climate change industry find it absolutely unproblematic that a person who has led Greenpeace now does not have to trespass to get into the Government Office but only use her pass, that it is her place of work. I find it remarkable. It sends out very serious signals to the rest of society that a person who has led an organisation that uses civil disobedience, i.e. criminal methods, as a supporting tool in his work can go directly from being chairman and leading this organisation to becoming chief of staff at the Government Office. I find it remarkable that the Minister sees no problem with that. This is an expression of the fact that, as I have said, the Green Party has not dealt with these methods. I have had a debate on this in the past with the then Minister for Democracy, Alice Bah Kuhnke. Unfortunately, she could not clearly distance herself. There is always such a part of the Green Party's party programme. It is clear in this debate that the Green Party still believes that in a well-functioning democracy such as Sweden it is free to break the law, if you do so in the form of civil disobedience.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-68	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to the Moderates, for now you have repeatedly stated that all types of civil disobedience are criminal practices. I do not think that this analysis is widely shared in society when we know that civil disobedience has been very important for homosexual rights, for the rights of the black people and also for the attention of serious violations of the environment. Illegal fishing, oil drilling and other things have been highlighted by civil disobedience. And these are peaceful methods that Greenpeace advocates. You take on your responsibilities, too. Again, I would like to say that Annika Jacobson has undergone a security clearance. She's not convicted. It's pretty hair-traveling to stand here and implicate her as a criminal. I don't think it's okay with illegal acts inside nuclear power plants. Nor do I think, like former Minister for the Environment Lena Ek, that it is okay that people should be able to stay inside nuclear power plants 38 hours without being discovered. I very much share the frustration that Lotta Olsson says that the employees of the nuclear power plant felt and are very pleased that since then the safety of our nuclear power plants has been significantly increased. That is something that I think the public is also very happy about. We still have effects after Chernobyl in our country. We know what a serious nuclear accident can mean for long periods of time for human health, agriculture and other things when we have radiation in the ground. It is in itself a good thing that after these intrusions we have taken a safety-enhancing work, previously led by Minister of the Environment Lena Ek. As Maria Gardfjell quoted, she has repeatedly said that she thinks it was under all criticism that one could so easily climb over the fence and get inside the shell cover and that Greenpeace's action was peaceful and part of democracy and transparency through different roles in society. The most serious thing I think is that this could happen. I don't think it was okay, and the activists who did the trespass have taken their punishment. Since then, we have tightened up criminal law. At that time, trespassing was regulated into the penal code, which trumped the protective laws. This has been changed so that since 2018, the Protection Act is no longer subsidiary in relation to the provisions of the Criminal Code. Previously, a person who trespassed on protected objects could be sentenced to a daily fine. It is now removed from the scale of the penalty so that the penalty is proportionate to the seriousness of the crime. The penalty for trespassing or unlawful detention within protected objects is now much higher on the penalty scale than before, and I think that is good. On 1 April, a new Security Act will enter into force. The Radiation Protection Authority is thus given an increased responsibility also for the intrusion of drones, which is a new problem and which we need to be able to intervene against.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-76	Mr President, I would like to This debate clearly shows how different we view the value of how one can influence a society. I know that there has been civil disobedience that has led to development, for example in the case of repression of the black population. But trespassing on a nuclear power plant and the danger it poses is quite another matter for me. We are now extremely concerned about the government's security thinking regarding digitalisation in the country. I would like to compare this with an intrusion into one of the servers in the Government Office one dark night when I managed to get over a pass card, just because it had a good purpose. If we ourselves cannot stand up in government and parliament because we must have methods that can drive progress towards security thinking and a good society, we have actually written down the whole democratic process. Should activism, and in that case who can generate the most money for activism, be the driving force for development and also the pressure for how a parliament and government acts? This is my starting point on the issue. I think it is a form of blackmail when pressure is put on Members for a parliamentary vote on an important issue. For me, it is very strange how one as a minister can feel such confidence in an employee who has such values as basic values. In fact, this is not about crime, it is about the values you stand up for and trust in all of us. The day when people do not have faith in our government and in our parliament, we are in great trouble as a democracy.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-82	Mr President, I would like to I have entered politics because I believe in democracy. We have formed a party because we believe in parliamentarism, politics and democracy as a force. I share former Minister for the Environment Lena Ek's view that there are different roles for citizens in a democracy. You can work as a journalist and opinion-maker, as I have done before. You can work for environmental organisations and business and then go into politics. I am convinced that Annika Jacobson can distinguish between these different roles, and that is exactly why I have hired her and have great faith in her. I am a little surprised that Lotta Olsson does not mention in a word all the safety deficiencies that were revealed in connection with Greenpeace's intrusion. Nor does she mention all the improvements in safety that both the Alliance Government and we did in response to these very flagrant and gross deficiencies in the safety of nuclear power plants in densely populated areas of our country. I do not think that the Swedish people would have greater confidence in democracy or in the rulers if there were to be a terrorist attack where someone could easily climb a fire ladder into dangerous areas, even up on the reactor roof. Now we have clogged these safety gaps. For me, as a minister, it is a priority and a priority that we look at radiation safety in relation to nuclear power.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-87	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me four questions about carbon capture and storage, CCS: firstly, if I am prepared to take the initiative to investigate a specific climate allowance for CCS; secondly, when investment support for negative emission testing facilities set out in the January agreement comes in place and how extensive the support will be; thirdly, if I am prepared to take an initiative on a CCS strategy; and fourthly, on the possibility of establishing a West Swedish cluster around the development and introduction of CCS. The report from the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, IPCC, on the 1.5-degree target of last October shows the need to shift efforts to limit global temperature growth to one and a half degrees. We therefore need to increase investment in climate-efficient technologies. The IPCC report assumes the use of CCS technology in all scenarios, and most scenarios also include so-called bio-CCS, i.e. CCS applied to carbon dioxide emissions of biogenic origin, as a technology for producing negative emissions. In its proposal for a long-term EU climate strategy, the European Commission also requires CCS, including bio-CCS, to play a role in achieving the EU's climate goals. Mr President, I would like to Our main focus needs to continue to be to significantly reduce our emissions through, among other things, energy efficiency and renewable energy. However, as Johan Hultberg mentions, there are some process-related emissions from the industry that can be difficult to reduce without access to CCS. In addition, bio-CCS can help achieve negative emissions. In July 2018, the Government appointed a study on accompanying measures to achieve negative greenhouse gas emissions. Among other things, the investigation has the task of estimating the potential for and proposing incentives for bio-CCS and identifying gaps and obstacles in CCS legislation, including bio-CCS. The investigation shall consult the relevant authorities and maintain a close dialogue with relevant stakeholder organisations, the scientific community and other societal stakeholders. It shall present its proposals including a proposal for a negative emission strategy by 31 January 2020. Mr President, I would like to Several of the questions that Johan Hultberg is asking are precisely those that I hope the investigation will shed light on. Within the Government Office the investment aid for negative emission test facilities mentioned in the January agreement is now being prepared as a matter of urgency. However, I would like to await the findings of the investigation before taking a position on any further action.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-95	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister for Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, for the answer to my interpellation, which stems from the fact that Sweden has set the world's most ambitious climate targets across party and block boundaries. This will require an effective and ambitious environmental and climate policy now and for a long time to come. If we look at Sweden's role in climate policy, it is clear to me as moderate that our main task and our main contribution in the international climate work is to act as a front country. This means that we must combine rapidly reducing emissions with strong economic development where we create jobs and growth so that other countries see Sweden as an attractive example of how to conduct climate policy. Isabella Lövin has really travelled around the world. I have also done so, albeit not to the same extent. But when I meet Indians, or Americans for that matter, they are not at all prepared to give up economic growth, or in the case of India poverty reduction, the expansion of electricity in rural areas and so on, for climate action, but we have to show that both can be done. Unfortunately, when Donald Trump declared that the United States would leave the Paris Agreement, he made it clear that the agreement would cost too many American jobs. Sweden must therefore try to show that Donald Trump is wrong and that there does not have to be a conflict between jobs and economic development and reduced emissions. In the long term, of course, if we are not able to address climate challenges properly, they will be a serious strain on our potential for economic development, which may make it more difficult to combat poverty and reduce the world economy. Here in Sweden, the transport sector is a major challenge, and perhaps the one we debate most in this House when it comes to climate policy. The second major challenge is our industry, especially our basic industry. Industry accounts for about one third of Swedish territorial emissions. At the same time, our industry is at the absolute forefront of producing climate smart. So the solution is not to shut down our industry, because the fact is that for every tonne of steel, pulp or other exported by Sweden, we are also exporting emission reductions. Sweden is so much better off than other countries when it comes to producing climate smart. CCS is an important part of how we can further reduce industrial emissions. After all, the Minister for Climate Change raised the fact that the IPCC, i.e. the UN Panel on Climate Change, clearly says that CCS will be necessary for us to cope with rapid reductions in emissions globally. Mr President, I would like to I am a little concerned when the Minister says that there are emissions that can difficult be reduced by CCS. Let's take the cement industry. It is not possible to just change fuel here; it is about processes that emit emissions. When limestone is burned, carbon dioxide is released. The Minister is happy to tell you if there is any other way to remove these emissions than with CCS. I haven't found anyone. We need to find a strategy for how we can scale up this technology, cut costs and create market models that enable us to introduce this technology. It is urgent to develop a Swedish CCS strategy.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-104	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Hultberg. I am very pleased that we have the same view that the most important thing Sweden can do is to be a pioneer country and show the rest of the world that it is possible to change and that it is also good for people, welfare, economics and development. We have a very serious situation, such as the IPCC climate panel with scientists has clearly told us. We need to halve emissions globally over the next ten years if we are to meet the 1.5-degree target, and we need to come down to zero emissions by 2050. Here CCS or removal of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere will be important. Johan Hultberg mentioned the word cost-effective. The most cost-effective thing we can do is energy efficiency and take technological leaps to eliminate emissions. As far as CCS is concerned, I would like to make it clear that I am not against it, but will be needed in the middle of the century. But sometimes it is presented in the debate as saying that if we just invest in CCS, we can continue to burn coal and run on petrol and that there is no problem running on just as usual. However, this vision has had a strong thorn. The EU has invested huge amounts and strategies in getting CCS facilities going within the EU. The strategy was launched in 2008. The European Council invited the Commission to develop a mechanism to ensure up to 12 CCS demonstration facilities to be built and operational by 2015. But not one of these has been put into operation. Several attempts have been made and EUR 1 billion was allocated in 2009 to support CCS projects. Why haven't they gone? Because in the longer term we could eliminate emissions that cost about SEK 1 000 per tonne, while at the same time we have much cheaper ways of reducing emissions. So the economy in this is not quite brilliant. Norway is now investing 17 billion. They will have strong state aid for CCS out in the North Sea, where they expect to store about 100 million tonnes of CO2 by 2023 or 2024. It is two years of Swedish emissions, and it is still very expensive. So my assessment is that we're going to do research. We have already set up an investigation, and we have included in the January agreement that funds should be allocated to this. The Energy Agency is already working on it. At the end of February, the Swedish Energy Agency, together with Norwegian Gassnova, granted financial support to Preem's CCS project in Lysekil to investigate the establishment of a full-scale facility to capture and store carbon dioxide at the refinery's hydrogen plant, which can reduce CO2 emissions from the refinery by up to half a million tonnes per year. This is absolutely excellent. We're gonna work on this, and we've got an investigation going on. However, what I would like to emphasise is that the lowest hanging fruit in terms of what is most cheap and what is most sustainable in the longer term is that we have to change our processes. I think there are things to look at in the cement industry. I know that there are interesting attempts, for example, with algae that can bind carbon dioxide.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-113	Mr President, I would like to It is quite true that CCS technology is being faced with major challenges. The biggest challenge is the cost – simply the lack of a functioning market model to enable the transition from experimental and demo facilities to full-scale installations that store large volumes. However, this technology will not have a breakthrough of its own; it requires us to take action, make research investments and cooperate internationally. One of the most important points of my interpellation and what I am raising there is that the costs are high and that we must therefore seek cooperation. We had a discussion about environmental organisations just now and what methods they are using. I usually say that the most important environmental organisation we have in Europe is the European Union. We need to work together there, and now I hope that the European Investment Fund, which is funded with, among other things, emissions trading revenues, will mobilise capital to enable investments in CCS. The minister highlighted some unsuccessful attempts. They are linked both to a negative opinion, which unfortunately has come about CCS, and to the fall in ETS prices. Now they are on their way up, and this will hopefully make things easier. Norway is a country that has taken the lead shirt in the development of CCS, and this is highly linked to their good storage facilities in their old gas and oil fields. As a moderate, always looking after taxpayers' money and thinking that climate policy must also be characterised by cost-effectiveness, I believe that we should extend a hand to Norway and find good partnerships on how to take technology from the experimental stage to full-scale facilities and, not least, how to cut costs and take technological leaps. It is very positive that the Swedish Energy Agency, together with Gassnova, has now granted funds for the facility that is to be developed in Lysekil, but we will need to do more. The Minister said in his reply that an investigation has already been set up. This is an issue that I have been going on about in this House and in other ways for many years. I was the voice that most clearly highlighted this in the Environmental Objectives Committee. There we highlighted the need for a zero emission strategy for industry and for this to include CCS. Then nothing has happened. Year after year has passed, and the government has done nothing. It's great that the investigation now has added, but it's urgent. We urgently need to reduce our emissions. Industrial emissions are among Sweden's largest, and in the longer term this is one of the biggest international challenges we have. The process emissions are difficult to remove. There is an amazingly exciting and well-lawed project in the steel industry: Hybrid. There LKAB, SSAB and Vattenfall work together to remove the carbon and instead use hydrogen produced with hydropower. This will enable the objective of a carbon neutral steel industry to be achieved. But, for example, the cement industry does not have the same opportunities to just change energy carriers, so CCS is needed. I also ask other questions about how to speed up the transition of industry and think it would have been good if a deduction were made to create incentives for the industries and businesses that take precedence. It could be a question of getting deductions for investing and investing in CCS, but not only that, but it could also be about what the Minister highlighted in terms of energy efficiency improvements and other technological developments. I appeal for that possibility to be looked at.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-120	Mr President, I would like to I would strongly question the claim that it would be negative opinion that has held CCS back. I myself have been in the European Parliament for over five years, and I know that there is a very strong belief and hope in CCS as a magical way of avoiding the dismantling of coal mines and of not ending up with fossil fuels and instead just investing in CCS. And there has been a lot of money, strategies and cooperation in the EU since 2008, for ten years, but as I said, not a single testing facility is running. It's strange. Six projects were granted funds in 2009, and EUR 424 million, SEK 4 1⁄2 billion, was paid out. If we are to protect taxpayers' money, we can say that it was good to try, but not a single demonstration facility has been materialised. All the projects are now closed, and that is because it is very expensive. But it is very cheap to release, and those who are strongly opposed, for example, to an increase in petrol tax, CO2 tax and other things will be the answer here. We need to make it more expensive to release in order to make it profitable to invest in CCS technology. That's it. As regards deductions for climate investments, I would like to draw the attention of Mr Hultberg to a debate article from January this year at DN Debate, signed by among others Svensk Betong, Svenskt Flyg, CEO of Cementa, Jernkontoret, Åkeriföretagen, Sveriges Byggindustrier, Svensk Dagligvarorhandel and the mines. They do not think that a climate deduction is a good idea at all. They feel that there is a need for direct financial support and that tax deductions are not effective because there are no profits to be deducted. The new consortia that would require cooperation have no profit tax to deduct. They need upfront support, when they start and not in some kind of day-to-day operation. Of course, we need to analyse this on the part of the government, and so do we in the investigation that has been set up. Summarising the sum: I would like to emphasise once again that I fully agree with the UN Panel on Climate Change that we must achieve negative emissions by the middle of this century. We will have to invest in CCS whether it is cost-effective or not. Otherwise we will have to lay down a lot of human activities or make sure to significantly increase the afforestation of our planet or increase our uptake in some other way. Otherwise, we will not be able to stay below two degrees, which would have extremely serious consequences for all mankind and all future generations. We will have to use all means. The first, best and most effective thing that we need to focus our efforts on right now is to develop new technologies that are emission neutral. The Hybrit project, mentioned, has been supported by the government with our major initiative Industrikliv, which provides opportunities for technological leaps for the heavy industries that have emissions in their own processes, like the steel industry. For the cement industry, there is also the possibility of being awarded project grants in the Industrial Sector. I very much hope that we can continue to cooperate on this. This is necessary for a fossil-free welfare country, which Sweden will become.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-125	Mr President, I would like to It's a somewhat ambivalent rhetoric that I hear from the climate minister. But I can partly understand it. We fully agree that, of course, it is first and foremost the case that we should reduce our emissions. But we will also have to store emissions to get down to zero emissions, neutral emissions, and then go further than that. The UN Panel on Climate Change is pressing very hard that if we do not manage to achieve extremely fast zero emissions, the need for negative emissions will be much greater by the end of this century or even by the middle of it. We have also agreed across party and block boundaries in this House that we will achieve negative emissions in Sweden already in 2045. This is not something that will happen on its own; of course, it will require us to develop the EU ETS, not least so that we get more countries to introduce emissions trading systems. After all, the main problem is not that the price of emissions is too low in Europe, but that it is non-existent in too many parts of the world. It is harshly expressed that the climate challenge is global and needs global pricing. Then we need to shoulder our responsibilities in Europe, but we also need to ensure that all countries in the world price their emissions and take responsibility for their emissions and their share of the development of both technology and other solutions. As far as the CCS strategy is concerned, I think it is urgent. I really think that the Minister for Climate Change should get on the train after this debate and go to Oslo to start discussions with his Norwegian colleague on how we can create Nordic cooperation. As I highlighted in my interpellation, there are very good conditions in my part of Sweden, West Sweden, to start creating a cluster. There are infrastructure, heavy industries with large point source emissions and a technical expertise at Chalmers University of Technology, for example. We also have the proximity to Norway, which has already taken on more costs and made a greater leap in technology. We can work with them. Try to get this work started now! It's hurrying.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-129	Mr President, I would like to I hope that we still agree that Sweden should be a front country and that we cannot use accusations that other countries are doing nothing as a pretext for doing nothing themselves here in Sweden or in the European Union. We need both to push ahead in Europe and to be a leading country ourselves. I'd love to take the train to Norway to watch this. I've already planned on doing that. It is very important to understand the challenges. The Norwegian State, together with business interests, has been studying this for a long time. Had it been a quick fix, we would already have been able to export all our emissions to Norway, and everything would have been peace and joy. But it's not that simple. With the large-scale storage now planned, 100 million tonnes will be stored, which is twice Sweden's emissions. Even Norway will probably want to use it. Of course, we cannot see this as a final solution to anything, but it is part of the solution. I think different initiatives are good, and not least that Chalmers University of Technology is at the forefront of CCS research. They also organised last May the world's largest large-scale conference on negative emission technologies. A great many good initiatives have been initiated in West Sweden. But there are also other stakeholders in other parts of Sweden within CCS and bio-CCS. Stockholm Exergi is now studying opportunities to contribute to negative emissions of approximately 2 million tonnes per year through bio-CCS at the combined heat and power plant in Värtan, Stockholm. We have many interesting projects under way, and I will follow and support them in the future.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-132	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel has asked me why the government expresses its support to the same group responsible for the offensive in Afrin province and whether the government may act in a similar way in the event of a possible Turkish-stricken attack by Manbij, in what way the government believes that support for the Turkish-sponsored so-called Syrian interim government improves the situation of the Kurds in northern Syria and in what way it believes that support to the Syrian interim government facilitates the goal of ceasefire throughout Syria, including Afrin. As I previously replied to Markus Wiechel ( 2017/ 18:570) on these questions, the government has been clear in its criticism of Turkey's military operation in Afrin province. We expect Turkey to respect international law. We expect Turkey specifically to respect UN Security Council Resolution 2401 on ceasefire, which covers the whole of Syria, including Afrin and Manbij. This has been communicated to representatives of the Turkish Government, the EU and the UN. This criticism is particularly reflected in the EU Council conclusions on Syria, to which Mr Wiechel refers. At the end of December last year, we also called for an extraordinary meeting at expert level in the Security Council circle of the UN with a view to contributing to de-escalation and avoiding a military offensive against the Kurdish-controlled areas of northern Syria. The conflict in Syria has caused enormous suffering to millions of people. Extensive violations of international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights, have been committed. For this, the Syrian regime and its allies bear the main responsibility. Despite repeated requests from the UN Security Council and the international community, the regime has consistently stalled and prevented the UN-led political talks with the political opposition. Instead, they have chosen to continue for almost eight years the gross and indiscriminate violence, which has hit the Syrian civilian population in particular. In the absence of a political solution, the EU has chosen to support efforts in opposition-controlled areas related to training and job creation, as well as the maintenance of civilian structures and authorities. Ultimately, this is about giving people in all parts of Syria an opportunity to support themselves and to live a dignified life despite the terrible conflict that is going on. In this context, the so-called Syrian Interim Government is one of many actors with which the EU cooperates. Once again, I would like to emphasise that sustainable peace in Syria cannot be achieved as long as the regime and its allies maintain their ambition to implement a military solution. Violence can never give the legitimacy needed to heal the wounds and overcome the divisions caused by the regime in particular since the outbreak of the conflict in 2011. The only way to make this possible is through a UN-led political process. That is why the government supports the UN-led political process and the Secretary-General's Special Envoy, currently Geir Pedersen.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-137	Mr President, I would like to My interpellation concerns extremely important issues. There is now more or less an ethnic cleansing of Kurds in northern Syria. It is an ethnic cleansing that is in danger of getting worse if Turkey's President Erdo中an gets what he wants. For this reason, I am a little surprised at how the Minister for Foreign Affairs responds with references to the Syrian regime. This is a completely different matter that has nothing to do with the situation in either Manbij or Afrin. I understand, of course, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs wants well, so I am not going to put my hands on her. However, I honestly thought that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs would have better control of the situation in Syria than this. I thought to help on the trot try to briefly tell about what has happened in this part of the world. At the beginning of the Syrian war, Syrian troops withdrew from the area. On 21 January 2014, a lawyer and partyless person named Akram Hossum chose to declare themselves interim leader of the Kurdish part. It is a person who had as his purpose and goal not to cooperate with al-Asad-Assad and tough Islamists like Al-Qaeda. Since then the Kurds in this part have had it quite quiet. There has been peace, and there has been a truce with, among other things, the regime. It has focused its fight against the Islamic State and other Islamist rebels. It has made the Kurds the most effective group in Syria in the fight against, among other things, the Islamic State. The ceasefire between the Kurds and the Syrian regime has worked very well for a year or two. As a result, the entire area has been stable. Moreover, talks are now taking place, just as the Foreign Minister wants it to do, between the Kurds and the regime in order to try to find a peaceful solution. At the same time, as is well known, Afrin province has been occupied by Turkish-supported rebels with links to the very Syrian interim government that the Swedish government with other EU countries supports. There, civilians have been driven out. It is so bad that the Kurds now prefer the Al-Assad regime, the regime which the government also has as an ambition not to support. That makes it very contradictory. I cannot understand what the government has been thinking if it has got into the situation at all. Unfortunately, from the answer, it is quite clear that there is a huge lack of knowledge within the Government Office, given that you talk against yourself all the time. In other words, supporting the interim government means betraying the Kurds on the one hand and supporting the perpetrators of the conflict on the other. At the same time, the Kurds are being forced into military cooperation with the Al-Assad regime, as they do today. It is, among other things, troops from the Al-Assad regime that are now guarding the border against the Turks and Turkish-sponsored Islamists, those that the government is now behind. I am speechless, Mr President, given the inconsistency shown by the government.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-146	Mr President, I would like to The government has repeatedly criticised Turkey for its military action since the start of Turkey's military operation called Operation Olive Branch in Afrin Province more than a year ago. It has been addressed to representatives of the Turkish Government on several occasions at different levels in the UN Security Council and within the EU. In the recent EU Council conclusions on Syria, to which Mr Wiechel refers in his interpellation, EU foreign ministers express clear criticism of the operation and concern for its humanitarian consequences. We have also paid attention to the international legal dimension of Turkey's actions, and we have stressed the importance of respecting legal obligations. At the initiative of Sweden and Kuwait, the UN Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 2401 last year. There, the Council calls for a ceasefire throughout Syria to allow humanitarian access. We have been clear that this also applies to Afrin and expressed criticism when the resolution is not being complied with. The government has also made it clear that the people who have been forced to flee because of Turkey's military operation must be given the opportunity to return to their homes in a safe, voluntary and dignified manner. We have taken it very seriously that rebel groups supported by Turkey should have plundered refugees' homes in Afrin. We have condemned this. I described the conflict in Syria as one of the longest and greatest humanitarian disasters of our time and what our view is on the political necessity of a political process. The EU Council conclusions, to which Mr Wiechel refers, clearly state that the EU will continue to support the civilian population in opposition-controlled areas by contributing to the training, job creation and maintenance of local government structures. One of the organisations to do so is the so-called Syrian interim government, SIG, which is not a military organisation. The fact that the EU is helping children in Syria to go to school and that people should have a job to go to is something that we welcome. Basically, it is about trying to contribute to a certain dignity for severely affected people in war Syria and to provide them with the conditions for creating a future once the conflict has ended.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-153	Mr President, I would like to It is of course gratifying that the government has highlighted the situation of the Kurds during international talks, not least within the UN but also within the EU community. It's very important. But it still becomes very contradictory. The intervention is about the way in which support to the so-called Syrian interim government benefits the Kurds. It does not benefit the Kurds at all. The fact is that the group that is now being supported has formed what is called the Syrian national army. It is almost to be regarded as a harsh Islamist rebel alliance. It is precisely those who occupy areas previously inhabited by civilian Kurds. The very seat of it is located in the Kurdish village of Azaz. There a lot of civilians have been forced from their homes because of the Turkish-supported offensive, which the EU has now chosen to support. It becomes very strange when you talk about trying to make things easier for the Kurds. The reason why I refer to the Council's conclusion is that the same conclusion provides support for both perpetrators and victims. I don't know how it works. I understand that the Foreign Minister and the government want to be united in the EU. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs is a person of his own who represents Sweden's interests. I thought that Sweden would set an example and show that it stands for humanitarian law also for Kurdish civilians. Support for this group does not benefit Kurds for five cents. It does not benefit any of the Kurds who have been forced to flee because of Turkey's attack. That's what I'm trying to focus on in the interpellation. For this reason, I hope that the Foreign Minister will be able to explain once again how support for the group that has largely been responsible for the offensive against the Kurds will benefit civilian Kurds.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-158	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel wishes to give the impression that the so-called Syrian interim government is responsible for Turkey's military operation in Afrin province and that it is actively supported by the EU. That is simply not true. SIG was established in 2013 to provide emergency and community services mainly to the civilian population in opposition-controlled areas. In this way, people would not have to turn this g to Daish or al-Q aida-affiliated Nusra front to have their basic needs met. For this work, the organisation has received international support, including from the EU. We note that SIG, like the other parts of the Syrian opposition, has consistently been met by military means from the Syrian regime. Since peaceful demonstrations broke out in 2011, the regime has responded with brutal force. For almost eight years it has bombed and besieged its own population with support from Russia and Iran. President al-Asad-Assad has repeatedly shown that there are no means he and his regime hesitate to use to remain in power, including chemical weapons. We are in a position to describe that 5.6 million Syrians have been forced to leave their country and 6.2 million people have been forced to flee to other parts of Syria. It is an impervious tragedy for which the Syrian regime bears the main responsibility. Despite this, Markus Wiechel chose to travel to Syria in November 2017 to meet representatives of the Syrian regime. Sweden, the EU and most of the international community have from the outset condemned the serious and indiscriminate violence of the Syrian regime. There have been widespread and repeated violations of human rights. We have called for a ceasefire and a political negotiated solution, and we continue to insist on that. The Security Council has identified the Syrian regime and the political opposition as the two parties that should negotiate. As I said earlier, we support the political process and Geir Pedersen's efforts to find a UN-led political solution. We have marked against Turkey's attacks, and we continue to stand by what we have said about this.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-164	Mr President, I would like to Once again, the Foreign Minister focuses very much on the regime in this context. The intervention is not about the regime. The regime has nothing to do with this conflict, but it is Kurds against the rebels who have the support of Turkey that it is about. If we are now going to discuss the regime, who is it that the Foreign Minister wants to negotiate with the regime? Is that al-Zenki-Zenki? Is it Jaish al ‐ Islam or al-al-Sham? Is that the Nusra front? Is that the Islamic state? To be honest, the rebel groups in addition to the Kurds remain different nuances of Salafism. These are brutal Islamist groups. Are those the ones you should sit down and negotiate with? I am not going to defend all the crimes committed by the regime at all, and the fact is that one of the reasons for the trip I made with a party partner in autumn 2017 was that I wanted to meet civilians and that I wanted to meet with the UN. The goal was not to meet the regime, as some claim. Then it is clear that if you are admitted to a country, you sometimes also get to meet people that you may not have as your goal to meet. But the fact is that we made the trip to study the situation and see how to improve it for ordinary civilians in Syria. I read out what the interim leader of the Kurds has said: we are striving for a democratic state with a democratic constitution, in which Kurds, Arabs, Syrians and everyone else has their rights. Neither Asad nor Al-Qaeda will have a place in such a state. The opposition against them, that is, the Turkish-backed rebels and also the so-called Syrian national army linked to the Syrian interim government, may not accept Asad, but they accept Al-Qaida.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-169	Mr President, I would like to I repeat what I said more time ago, Markus Wiechel said: on these issues the government has been very clear in its criticism of Turkey's military operation in the Afrin Province. We expect, and we demand, that Turkey respect international law, and we expect specifically to respect Resolution 2401 on ceasefire, including Manbij. It has also been communicated to representatives of the Turkish Government. As everyone knows, we are, of course, also protecting the Kurds in this case. We want to contribute to a de-escalation and to avoid a military offensive against Kurdish-controlled areas. A political process is needed. No one has claimed that it is in any way easy, but it must be clear who has been guilty of extreme abuse on their own people in this case and how the regime acts. It shows no interest whatsoever in bringing about a political solution, but continues to advocate a military solution. This is very worrying. I would suggest that women also be put at the negotiating table and that Syrian women be involved in negotiating delegations. That would be the voice of civil society. Our efforts to this end continue.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-172	Mr President, I would like to Joar Forssell has asked me about the government's reaction to the persecution of LGBT people in Russia. It is with great concern that we are now reading information about a new wave of persecutions since December 2018. I myself have publicly commented on the information and called on the Russian Government to examine the events independently. The reports from Chechnya since at least 2017 on systematic abuse, including torture and murder, of LGBTQ people are alarming. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has worked intensively on the matter both in Stockholm and through our Embassy in Moscow and through other foreign authorities. Sweden has actively promoted statements in the EU and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, as well as in Equal Rights Coalition. Sweden was one of the 16 countries that took the initiative to activate the so-called Moscow mechanism within the OSSE. The mechanism allows us to send an independent expert mission to an OSCE country if there is deemed to be a particularly serious threat to the fulfilment of commitments it has made within the OSSE in terms of democracy and human rights. The latest report on the situation in Chechnya was produced as a result of this mechanism. The report confirms our view of the unacceptable situation that exists and, together with the other initiators, we are now working to ensure that it is followed up. The Russian Government is responsible for ensuring full compliance with Russia's international commitments, including the enjoyment of human rights and their security throughout Russia's territory, including in Chechnya. The government regularly addresses human rights issues in contact with Russian representatives. We will continue to do so and the issue will be raised at forthcoming high-level meetings with Russian representatives. We will also work to ensure that the EU continues to address these problems at meetings with Russian representatives. Sweden provides comprehensive support for contacts between Swedish civil society and Russian civil society. It is important in order to support democratic development and contribute to greater respect for human rights. The support includes legal assistance to LGBTQ people. I will do what I can to ensure that this issue, which I personally feel strongly about, continues to be addressed. I will raise it with my Russian counterpart and representatives of the Russian Government at every opportunity that is given. We will work to ensure that the EU and other relevant actors continue to put pressure on the Russian Government to act. We will also raise the issue in meetings with foreign government representatives, in the diplomatic community and with civil society organisations.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-181	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Wallström, for answering the question. There's an old movie, a parody, called Team America. The Minister has probably seen the film; at least we have debated it before. In parody Hans Blix says to North Korea's dictator: I will write you by very angry letter! The dictator of North Korea is not very afraid when he receives this message from Hans Blix. One might think that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Government have seen the parody and taken it as an information film or an instructional film. We know from the 2018 reports that what is going on in Chechnya is that homosexuals and LGBTI people are being collected in concentration camps and systematically rape, torture, kill and murder these people. It is clear that the response to this cannot be a very angry letter. The response to that cannot be that you just bring this up at high-level meetings and that you just talk. The response to that must also be that you actually do something. Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Foreign Affairs did so in 2017, when she acted and called the ambassador. I thought that was good. I wish Mrs Wallström could do it again. I hope that she will continue to do so until the Russian Government, which, as the Government itself says, is responsible, acts in such a way that systematic persecution, systematic murder and systematic rape in Chechnya cease. I do not think it is enough to condemn, to write angry letters and to say tough things at meetings. I think something must also be done. The Liberals have proposed a number of things in their motion Strengthened sanctions against Russia. There are claims to simply tighten sanctions, to include the energy sector in sanctions and to strengthen civil society. We have also proposed that tougher sanctions be imposed on individuals responsible for this matter. Even if you say angry things to a high politician from another country, it is not certain that much is happening. However, those who are responsible should also be able to, for example, be subject to entry bans. You should be able to freeze their accounts more actively. Then those people will have difficulty working and living as long as they do not remedy the problems of the horrendous persecutions that we see in Chechnya. Finally, in this speech, I have a few further questions for Mrs Wallström: Will the Government call the Ambassador once more and make a clear mark? Will the Government support demands for tougher effective sanctions both against Russia and against individuals in the Russian administration and government? In the January agreement, which our two parties are behind, there is an agreement that aid should be directed more towards democracy. Will Mrs Wallström work to ensure that it also applies to Russia, and if so, in what way?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-190	Mr President, I would like to I thought that Joar Forssell might have tried to ralli over the things we do, a little bit as if we'd been content to write a letter. That is not the case at all. We have done just that: we have called ambassadors. We have ensured that we act together in the European circle. We have an ongoing discussion on how we should also include the human rights aspect in the sanctions regimes we have. There is already an opportunity, but we are also talking about how to do it in a more consistent and systematic way in the European context. We are also known for how we use our embassy to ensure that people belonging to civil society organisations have a place to come to discuss and describe their problems and challenges. In this way, we are giving support, above all, to civil society organisations. I think that is one of the most important things we can do, as mentioned here – perhaps provide legal assistance or ensure that organisations that do so receive support and help. We are fully open to discussing how we can continue to keep up the pressure on this issue. We imagine that it should primarily not even be at Ambassador level, but at higher political level. We have such incoming visits planned for the future, and then this issue will be raised. Addressing this in all the contacts we have and when we can act together, for example when we are several EU countries making démarches, is also a way of keeping up the pressure. So we are using all our diplomatic and political tools and will continue to do so. This is a very important issue, and we are actively working on the position and rights of LGBT people around the world through all our embassies. I'm not ashamed of what we've done and what we're doing. I believe that we share this commitment and should help each other and respectfully express ourselves on how to use all our tools. Of course, we've written to Lavrov. But that is not the only thing we have done, but we have done all that other things too and will continue to do so. I believe that an important and good discussion we can have is precisely how to get the human rights perspective into the sanctions rules. There is already an opening to including it as one aspect, but what is now under discussion is whether to have a separate sanction regime that only deals with this. Then we will have a completely new structure for what has been our sanctions so far. How it is to be done and how it is to be implemented needs to be properly discussed. We are in such a discussion and welcome such a debate. This is so bad and so serious that we should use all our platforms to act.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-196	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I understand that the Foreign Minister drew attention to the perhaps a rather ludicrous comparison with Team America, but I think it is relevant. Of course, it was a good idea to call the ambassador in 2017. I would have liked it to be possible to do it again now, perhaps waiting for these people to come to Sweden to come to Sweden. It is good that these things are lifted at summits around the world. It is positive that a delegation is being made to go to Russia to review and report, as the Minister has described. It's just that if you don't follow it up with tough and harsh sanctions that really feel, the words will be quite empty. I would have liked the Government to have been able to give notice here today that it would have called the Ambassador again, despite waiting for other visits. I would have liked the Council of State here today, Mr President, to have informed us that we are going to come forward with proper proposals to impose sanctions on individuals in the Russian regime who are about entry bans, about freezing accounts and about ensuring that life is really difficult for these people as long as the brutal violence in Chechnya, for example, is going on. Mr President, I would have liked the Council of State to come here today and itself to highlight the point of the January agreement on democracy aid and how we can further strengthen democracy in Russia through our aid work. Mr President, I would like to The government said in the speaker's chair that we should help each other. I'm totally open to helping each other. For example, the Social Democrats can vote in favour of our motions 1, 3, 10 and 11 in the motion for a resolution entitled "Strengthened sanctions against Russia" when that motion is discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It's one way to help each other. For example, Social Democracy and Margot Wallström can take the kind of sanctions that are being discussed in several countries and have been discussed in Sweden and make a workshop of them. I understand that we share the commitment. I understand that the Government does not think the systematic rapes and concentration camps in Chechnya are good. Everyone in and outside this Chamber understands that. It is just that the harsh words must be followed by tough sanctions and tough means. It doesn't work to just send a delegation to review. It does not work just to address the situation when you meet other political representatives. This must be a real feeling for these political representatives. It must be difficult to be a Russian politician and not act against this. It must be difficult to commit the kind of things that we want to impose sanctions on in Russia. It must be really fucked up, quite frankly, if you continue with the things that you are doing in Chechnya. I would have liked concrete proposals from the Government here today. ( THE President-in-Office): I am not sure that this type of choice of words, profanity, is entirely appropriate in this House. ) Is it still a curse? Yeah, maybe it is.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-204	Mr President, I would like to If you want there to be effective sanctions, you should make sure that they are well anchored in the UN, preferably, and also in the EU community. We have come to that conclusion for a long time. We know that it is only when all EU countries act together that it can be really effective. That is what we have been advocating all along. Perhaps the Liberals now have a completely different view of this, I do not know. Normally, you advocate that we act through the European Union. We've been pushing. We have belonged to those countries that have been at the forefront of proposing sanctions against Russia time and again. We have always supported the sanctions regimes against Russia and are very active on this issue. That is why I am trying to describe the introduction of a completely new regime which, so to speak, cuts this horizontally in a completely different way from the fact that it is based on countries, we need to discuss what legal and other consequences it has. It is not something that is done in one afternoon, but we welcome and are involved in that debate. In the meantime, we must use all our political and diplomatic tools, and in view of that we do not seem to differ. We have raised this, of course, with the diplomatic representation here, we do so in all our contacts with Russian representatives, and we do so above all by actively supporting those organisations that are very active and who are struggling under difficult conditions to help people who are persecuted and very vulnerable. That is how I believe that aid for democracy must also be used: to ensure that we support those organisations. I think that is what we need to focus better on plus using all the organisations that exist – the OSSE, the UN, the EU community and the Equal Rights Coalition, where we have been one of the active players – as platforms to help each other. That's how we increase the pressure, and that's how we keep the pressure up for changes to happen. In fact, I do not think we have different views on this, and I find it strange to give the impression that this would be a simple matter and that we could suddenly impose sanctions on our own when we have done so far in common with other EU countries and preferably with the UN and UN support in our backs. That's when it's effective and can be powerful. Then we have to write about this and make sure there is a debate going on. That is how we can best form opinion, and that is how we can best mobilise other countries and other actors so that we can actually change this situation. It is just as bad as Joar Forssell described and that we have also received reports about. It is important to continue to insist on the role that we believe the OSSE can play in all of this. I hope and trust that we can continue to work on this issue, and I thank Joar Forssell for being involved in it. I think that's very good. Joar Forssell can rely on us to use all our diplomatic and political tools.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-211	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by apologizing for my choice of words in the last speech. We may perceive that some words have a slightly different dimension. It is interesting, Mr President, to hear the Council of State here. We share views on what is happening in Russia and Chechnya. We share views on the magnitude of the crimes committed. We're both very upset. However, we do not share the view that it is enough to say that discussions are taking place and that it is enough to raise this issue on a regular basis when you meet Russian representatives. In 2017, Margot Wallström called the ambassador and raised this issue. Since then, the situation has worsened. In 2018, there were new reports of systematic rape of homosexuals in the concentration camps in Chechnya. It was the year after the Government had called the ambassador. While discussions are taking place, these crimes are being committed in Russia. My point is that you can't wait any longer. These discussions have been going on year after year, and nothing has happened. Perhaps the vote should push the question of changing the right of veto in the EU so that you can become a tougher voice a little more often. Perhaps it should take the initiative to impose tougher sanctions on individuals in the Russian regime already here and now. While the discussions are going on and while we continue to send angry letters and talk a little angryly to representatives after representatives, these crimes are going on in Chechnya, and it must be stopped.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-216	Mr President, I would like to Joar Forssell doesn't really listen to what I'm saying. We differ, I think, only on the point where Joar Forssell advocates doing this rather unthinkingly and without having Europe with us. I don't believe it. I believe that we will be much stronger if we act through the European Union. After all, I stand here and say time and again that we think this is an important and useful discussion and that we are no stranger at all to imposing more sanctions and to using it for this type of crime too. However, we believe that this must be done in an organised manner, in which the consequences have actually been examined. When should sanctions be lifted, and how does it look legal? We actually need to think about all that. Meanwhile, we use all the tools that Joar Forssell has mentioned. Does Joar Forssell know how many times we've met the Russian ambassador since we last called him up? Of course, these questions come up time and again. We are willing to raise them also to the political level and not just to discuss them at ambassador level. We support civil society, as one of the most visible countries, and we are very active on all these platforms and in all the bodies that have to deal with these issues. What else? I have not heard what else it could be, but we are absolutely willing to ensure that we, too, through the EU – because then we will be stronger – can discuss whether further sanctions are needed.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-219	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked the Minister of Civil Affairs what security considerations have been taken into account when the National Property Board decided to sell properties in strategically important locations, and if such an analysis has been made: Who has done the security policy analysis? The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Public Sweden faces significant challenges in terms of property management. Changes and increased demands in terms of climate, environment, economic development, international change, etc. also impose requirements on government property management. In order to do this, state property management must be cost-effective and have an appropriate structure. This means that the state continuously reviews its property ownership. A real estate managing authority may sell real estate if it is not or is only to a small extent needed in the activities of the State and if there are no special reasons why the properties should still be owned by the State. According to the Regulation (1993:527) on the management of state buildings and more, it is clear that each real estate managing authority is obliged to keep a current plan of such real estate which is not necessary for State activities and which should not, for other specific reasons, remain in the State's possession. The current list referred to by the interpelllant is one such plan drawn up by the National Property Board, SFV, and does not mean that all properties on the list will be divested. When SFV has established that a property is unlikely to be needed in the long term for State activities and that it should not, for special reasons, remain in the State's ownership, the property is placed on the disposal plan. Only then will resources be invested in carrying out a more thorough investigation into whether these criteria apply to the property concerned and what other conditions may apply to a possible disposal. In this process, SFV contacts other relevant authorities that may need the property or otherwise have an interest in the property. In this work, SFV also examines any safety or security policy aspects and contacts the relevant authorities.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-225	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Bolund, for your answer. The background to this interpellation is that on 26 January it was revealed by Svenska Dagbladet that the Swedish National Property Board has decided to divest about 30 properties that are currently owned by the state. It's a list worth paying attention. It contains Kronholms, customs stations, old defence facilities and parts of the parliamentary district. In particular, I would like to put it in connection with the major strike made by Finnish military, police and security services in the Turku archipelago last autumn against Russian companies that have made strategic property purchases. It is against this background that I would like to know what analysis has been made of various safety aspects before these items have been included in the sales list. I wonder about the defence facilities located in strategically important areas, such as Arholma here outside Stockholm, Fårösund and the defence facility in Karlskrona. How do Minister Per Bolund and the Government intend to ensure that there is no repetition of what happened in Finland? 400 police, defence, maritime, border and tax authorities raided the company Airiston Helmi. Since 2007, the company has been engaged in the purchase of land and buildings in strategic locations. These are deep fairways, military protected areas and airfields in the Turku archipelago. On the estates, the company has built large properties, dredged out harbours and prepared heavily added quays, including for two newly purchased Finnish military boats that had not yet been repainted. Helicopter landing sites were also made. The raid was made. And, among other things, Oscar Jonsson, who works at the Swedish Defence University, makes the clear connection to the security policy situation. In a statement to the Riksdag, the Finnish Protection Police (equivalent to Säpo in Sweden) said that this could be a sign that foreign power is preparing itself logistically for different types of influence. When asked if there is reason to believe that Russian property purchases are made in strategic areas also in Sweden, Oscar Jonsson answers: Why shouldn't it take place here? He also points out that we live in the same geopolitical security sphere. The question I would like to ask is: what steps have the Minister and the Government Office taken so that we do not see a repetition of what was happening in Finland and that had to be intervened against in the Finnish archipelago last autumn?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-232	Mr President, I would like to I want to thank Mikael Oscarsson for the interpellation. It is always important to keep the security work at the absolute highest level. This government does, just as previous governments have done before us. I would like to begin by emphasising that there have been no changes in how to sell real estate under this government compared to any previous governments. As I said in 1993, the law to which I referred has applied to all governments since then. Authorities that have had property management responsibilities even under previous governments have since had such lists. In that way, there is no change. I assume that the interpellant understands that the state should not always own at all costs everything it has previously bought and owned. There must be flexibility to get rid of properties that you do not need to be able to acquire properties that you now need but did not know about before. This type of flexibility is important to maintain. As far as the individual property is concerned, it is a public authority responsibility. I stated in my reply that, when you no longer need the property for your own purposes or for the purposes of the state, you always have a responsibility to have contact with other authorities to assess precisely the security policy aspects. Should they conclude that it is a property that is needed, such as important infrastructure or an important property in order for us to do the security work, you should of course change and not sell the property. As far as the overall work is concerned, we have seen a need for a more active attitude. There have also been investigations. On 30 November 2018, the report "Complements" was submitted to the new Security Act. The report proposes, among other things, an enhanced control system for the transfer of property, which has an impact on Sweden's security or on Sweden's binding international commitment to security protection. In that case, "property" means both movable and immovable property, even intangible assets. As I said, the report has been submitted by an inquiry and is now being referred for a referral. When the referees come in, we will have the opportunity to take the proposals further. We are thus in a position to do more thorough work. In addition, we already appointed a parliamentary committee in 2017 that is partly looking at issues relating to real estate and the protection of total defence activities. The Committee investigating improved protection of total defence activities will deliver its final report shortly. I think the interpellier is also part of that work, if I have not received the wrong information. The investigation examines, among other things, whether there is a need to propose measures, in order to prevent and prevent the exposure of material defence interests to risks associated with the assignment and assignment of major infrastructure that is deemed to be of significant interest to the total defence. The report of the investigation will be handled by the Ministry of Defence. An interim report was also submitted as early as 2018. The government has thus seen the challenge and acted. We have produced proposals which are now under preparation; they are either in the final phase of investigation or are already prepared and subject to consultation. It's a solid job. I believe that with these elements we will be better placed to protect security interests than previous governments might have had because they have not seen the needs in the same way. This is also an adaptation to a more vulnerable geopolitical situation. It is good that we have been prepared.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-242	Mr President, I would like to I think that Minister Bolund is doing a lot of housing. From what I understand, that's his responsibility. Is it not a strange relationship that you put out, for example, a dwelling for sale and then think about how to have it? Is it not a reverse order regardless, but especially when it comes to Swedish facilities that have been used within the Swedish Armed Forces? Isn't it backwards that you don't first control? The government mentions the investigation. It's true it's going on. But why in all the days of the world do you let the National Property Board go out with the list before the investigation is completed? There is work going on in the Defense Committee, which I have the privilege of sitting in. We have been working for two years and a year and a half ago presented a report called Resistance. It's about civil defense and how we can get it back together. I'm afraid it's basically closed down. Mr President, I would like to In the investigation, we are also careful to point out that this is a tougher security policy situation. I am reacting to the Government saying that previous governments have acted in the same way. But now we have a tougher security policy situation. One and a half years ago, at least seven of the eight parties included in the Swedish Defence Committee agreed that an attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Then I think this is the wrong timing. The defense committee should be finished with the report in two months; we're in the middle of sprinting. As I see it now, all parties, perhaps with some exception, at least a large majority, agree that there is a need for a substantial reconstruction of Sweden. It would take a doubling of the army. We need to strengthen our marines considerably. We also need to strengthen the Air Force so that we can use our backup bases again. In short, we are in a stage of construction. It'll be a little weird if the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. Maybe it'll come back to what we suggested. If you are going to build a total defense, we want the authorities responsible for the total defense in some way to be gathered under the Ministry of Defence. As it is now, MSB is under the Ministry of Justice. The Swedish Maritime Administration is under the Ministry of Industry. Other authorities are scattered in a way that is not good. There are things happening here, and there will be drain pipes that are not good. Does the Government itself not think it would be more reasonable to look into this in advance and before this list came out? Wouldn't it have been better to wait for the ongoing investigation that looks at issues like these as well as the work of the Defence Committee that should be completed within a few months? Wouldn't it have been better to see what would have been the consequence of it and whether the Swedish Armed Forces can really spare the properties that are now on the website for sale?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-249	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by stating that the principles that we are now using for property management are the same principles that have applied to previous governments, including the alliance government. It is worth recalling that, like this government, the alliance government also sold real estate. I hope that we can agree that a government and the authorities it appoints for the management of real estate must have the opportunity to do so. This is particularly true in order to ensure that there is a defence capability that is up-to-date and able to act against the security threats that exist. If we come to the conclusion that we need to strengthen the defence, it will certainly mean that we need to buy new equipment and possibly buy new properties to meet the defence needs. A prerequisite for this is that you have an updated property management system and also the possibility not to keep all the things that you do not actually need for government activities. It should not be a controversial issue. I hope Mikael Oscarsson can agree with that. There is no security risk to conclude that our assessment is that a particular property no longer fulfils any function for government activities. As I explained very clearly in my interpellation response, it does not end up being casually said: We do not see any direct need, so we will sell it tomorrow. Instead, it is a solid process in which other authorities are consulted. The process really ensures that everyone with knowledge in the field has the opportunity to make their views known. If it then turns out that there is a reason to keep the property, such as security policy reasons, it is not sold, of course, but it is kept in government administration. These are the same principles that have applied to previous governments as well. It is good to focus on these issues, which the government also has. We've set up investigations. One of them has made proposals that we are now discussing. Another investigation is on the way with suggestions. These, too, will be dealt with. I do not think that in itself this means that we should stop all state-run activities, such as changing legislation that has been in force for a long time. In fact, our real estate management authorities have a responsibility to have an up-to-date list of properties that they assess are not needed in government operations. I do not think this would be the right answer to the security policy risks that exist for Sweden. We have better conditions to equip Sweden in an uncertain world if we instead have flexibility in property management. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, I would like to point out once again that no real estate will be sold if someone with security policy expertise estimates that these properties are in any way at risk or that, for security reasons, they need to be kept under government control. For this very reason, there is a solid process so that you can capture such knowledge and see what interests the state operation can have. There is also no reason to paint risks that do not exist. We have a process and structure where we ensure that authorities consult each other in order to capture that kind of knowledge. If there is a security policy reason why the property has a special value, it will be captured in the process. In addition to this, we are also looking at whether there are specific measures that need to be taken to ensure that we have a solid security policy work. I hope that Mikael Oscarsson has respect for the democratic process, that is to say that we are listening to the views of the consultation bodies and that there is an ongoing thorough investigation that will come up with further proposals in the future.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-260	Madam President, I would like This interpellation debate also takes place in the light of various events. I am thinking, for example, of what happened last week. Säpo then made an alert arrest involving illegal intelligence activities. It was pointed out that this is an increasing problem. There is more illegal intelligence, espionage, against Sweden. Säpo has also said that war preparations are in progress – thus not saying that war is going on. However, we have a tougher security policy situation. It is sad that it is in this way, but it is the reality in which we live. So I was surprised when I saw this figure come out. I was also surprised by a system that I think is completely reversed. First, you put out a list of things for sale. After that, you should check whether the property can be sold. I wonder what this means in concrete terms. Will there be a security clearance of the buyers if you decide to sell, for example, the facilities at Arholma, on Gotland and in Karlskrona? In connection with what happened not far from here, in the Finnish archipelago, I asked similar questions. There it has become a huge problem, and you have had to do a very big intervention. It turned out that the Russian side had strategically bought up areas. There is also a connection with what happened in Karlshamn and Slite, where the Russians wanted to use the ports on behalf of Nord Stream. So we have a tougher security policy now than five and ten years ago. Such considerations must therefore be taken into account.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-264	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mikael Oscarsson for the interpellation. It is good that we keep the questions up to date and all the time have them in focus. That is how the government has acted, which we should both be delighted about. With regard to a situation similar to that of Finland, the Finnish Security Regulation currently provides for information and notification obligations when state authorities intend to transfer activities that are relevant to national security or that need to be specifically protected against terrorism. As I mentioned, a recent state investigation has suggested that the provision should be developed so that it becomes a clearer control function in the case of transfers of property that have an impact on Sweden's security or an international commitment to security protection for Sweden. The proposal also provides for this control system to be applied to the sale of real estate. So there is work going on, which we should be satisfied with. As the interpellier knows, the government has also set up a parliamentary inquiry. It is partly looking at this issue. This concerns the investigation into the directive Improving the protection of total defence activities. The investigation will shortly produce its final report. It has looked at whether additional measures are needed in order to prevent and prevent the exposure of material total defence interests to risks associated with the assignment and assignment of major infrastructure deemed to be of significant interest to total defence. When the investigation comes with its proposals, it is possible to take them further. Let us note that the sale of state property is not something that happens hip like hips or without having a controlled process. On the contrary, it is done with ultimate control. There is dialogue with other authorities to ensure that properties where there may be security policy interests or which are in different ways important for government activities are not sold. This has been done in the past, and so will this government and our authorities.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-268	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I believe that political developments in Zimbabwe give grounds for continuing to pay support to the country's politicians. Prior to the elections in Zimbabwe on 30 July 2018, there was the hope that they would mark the start of a new democratic era in the country. The election day itself was conducted relatively peacefully, but soon thereafter violence was reported. Many people were subjected to abuse and serious violations of human rights. Several people lost their lives. I am very concerned about developments in the country. In the autumn, the economic situation deteriorated. This has led to unrest, and there have been reports of, among other things, serious violations and human rights violations of civilians in connection with strikes and protests. Abuse and violence must stop. The Zimbabwean Government must undertake political as well as economic reforms to reverse developments in the country and to regain the confidence of the population and the international community. Swedish development cooperation should go to countries where the needs are greatest, including in terms of democracy and human rights. The government has stated in the foreign declaration that we will increase our democratic aid and stand up for the defenders and institutions of democracy. A central focus area for Swedish bilateral development cooperation in Zimbabwe is to promote greater respect for human rights, strengthened democracy and the rule of law. A key part of this work is to promote democratic and effective institutions in the country. In order to achieve a long-term sustainable democratic society, institutions such as Parliament need to be strengthened. The conditions for development are generally better in countries with well-functioning public institutions. We are committed to the Zimbabwean people in the areas and through actors where we see that Sweden can make a difference. Sweden does not have any direct cooperation with the Zimbabwean government. D to channel Swedish bilateral aid to Zimbabwe through multilateral actors and to civil society organisations. The situation with Zimbabwe is flexible, and there is a need to rapidly reconsider and adapt it to new conditions and political developments. This is clearly stated in the Government's development cooperation strategy with Zimbabwe. Together with the EU, Sweden supports a programme under the auspices of the United Nations Development Programme, which aims at capacity building efforts for Zimbabwe's parliament. The Swedish support for the UN programme amounts to a total of SEK 15 million during the period 2015– 2019. It covers actions addressed to all committees and Members of Parliament, including the opposition. The aim is to strengthen Parliament's and committees' capacity to adopt and adapt legislation in accordance with the country's 2013 progressive constitution and to strengthen its efforts in terms of accountability, transparency and the management of public resources. Ludvig Aspling argues that there is no progress on the aid in question. I don't fully share that picture. According to UN reports, for example, support activities have contributed to the adoption of more than 260 laws to bring them into line with the Constitution adopted in 2013. In addition, transparency and public transparency in legislative work have increased, for example in connection with the adoption of the Government's 2019 budget and additional legislation to the Elections Act. The support has also contributed to a higher awareness of gender issues in the context of Parliament's work.
i-VqZZiABjfnsetCGCrGaFRV	Madam President, I would like Last year, an election was held in Zimbabwe, on the one hand, to Parliament's two chambers and, on the other, to the presidency. The election was won by Robert Mugabe's old power party Zanu-PF, who received the presidential post and his own majority in Parliament. Although the outside world welcomed the relative freedom of the elections from violence, election observers have pointed out that it was conducted in a very inadequate way. EU observers point out, among other things, in the report on freedom of opinion:
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-278	During the campaign and onwards the election day itself, there were also shortcomings, mainly through various forms of pressure against voters:
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-279	Zimbabwe's Electoral Commission also received severe criticism of errors in the election results and lack of transparency and incapacitation. The US election observation organisations IRI and NDI further stated in a joint report that: 中 Zimbabwe has not yet established a process that treats all political parties equitably and allows citizens to be confidant that they can cast their vote and express their political opinion free from fear of contribution. ..................................................... Although the elections cannot in any way be considered to have been conducted in a free and fair way, Sweden is choosing to continue to pay aid to Zimbabwe's politicians. Sweden is paying out aid to the Zimbabwean Parliament in order, among other things, to create a democratic culture. Madam President, I would like I reacted a little to the response I received from the Minister for Development. He said that in order to achieve a sustainable democratic society in the long term, institutions such as Parliament need to be strengthened. This is in itself true, but what the Minister of Aid stubbornly refuses to understand is that, of course, genuine will is also required for democratisation on the part of the host country. Robert Mugabe's power party, Mr Zanu-PF, knows that they would not win a free and fair election, and that is why they will not hold a free and fair election no matter how many aid millions we throw at them. I reacted further to the view of the Minister for Development that aid will produce results as long as Zimbabwe makes new laws. He does not seem to know that the most fundamental problem in Zimbabwe is that the government does not comply with the law, even though Sida itself points this out as one of the main problems in its country report. It does not matter, therefore, whether new laws are passed on human rights, free elections and so on if the regime ignores those laws. In addition, the Minister ducks for the questions I asked in my interpellation. That's why I'm putting them back. Does the Minister think it appropriate to provide direct assistance to a parliament that is not elected in a free and democratic way? Does the Minister for Development understand that Sweden, by continuing to pay out the aid in practice, puts a quality stamp on the elections in Zimbabwe and that we give the regime an alibi against its own voters? When the question of election fraud comes up, it is easy for the power party to point out precisely Sida and Sweden and say that Sweden would not support them if they actually cheated in the election. Does the Minister of Aid understand the problem?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-286	Madam President, I would like Let me make it clear once again, with regard to capacity support for the Zimbabwean Parliament, that aid funds go to the United Nations Development Programme. The support has enabled the UN to organise, for example, public hearings on new legislative proposals, an independent study on the alignment of laws with the 2013 Constitution and capacity-building workshops where parliamentarians were invited to participate. The support also aims to strengthen Zimbabwe's national audit. The Embassy of Harare is exploring appropriate ways to build on the results that have been positive and will continue to support strengthened democratic development in the country through other efforts. The UNDP programme expires in 2019 and we do not intend to continue with the current support in its current form. That is a clear message. However, Sweden has a bilateral strategy with assistance to Zimbabwe, and Sida also has a role there. However, the resources we use – an annual volume of 300 million – do not go to the Zimbabwean Government, but much of them go to efforts on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, but also on equality, as well as on the environment, climate and energy. I am very concerned about developments in Zimbabwe. I fully share the concerns expressed by the interpeller and many others – not least recently, when the situation has worsened. I believe that the misrule that has long existed in Zimbabwe has not improved, but rather worsened. It has created a situation where today we also have a humanitarian crisis, and in a country that was not so long ago a food-producing exporter and a fertile and relatively rich country. Today there is a great need for humanitarian aid. Anda's top manager was just a few days ago in Zimbabwe and discussed a great need for help, which is primarily about creating resources to help the rural population get the most necessary food, protection, clothing and such things. I do not think it would make things better if Sweden, Sida or the multilateral UN organisations left the country completely. However, we must be extremely clear at all times and say that Zimbabwe today is depraved and that there must be a tightening up and a change in human rights and in managing its economy and political development in a completely different way from today.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-292	Madam President, I would like After all, the intervention is not about whether we – the outside world, Sweden, the EU and so on – should leave Zimbabwe and simply stop sending aid and stop cooperating. That is not the question I am asking in the interpellation, because there we are in complete agreement. Zimbabwe is a country with great potential. It is a country with enormous natural resources that does not really have to be poor. That is not what the question is about, but the very essence of the interpellation is that Swedish aid is partly used for the wrong things. What I point out above all is the support that goes to a Parliament that is not democratically elected properly. The Minister for Development mentions capacity building as an important objective for this particular part of the aid. Sure, capacity building has its function and its place. Under the right conditions, of course, that is a good thing. However, if the Zimbabwean regime does not want to build up its own capacity to hold democratic elections, then our tax money used for that very purpose is, to some extent, wasted. You cannot buy democratic reforms for money like that. As for the other thing that the Minister for Development mentions about things like hearings and adapting legislation to the Constitution, one might ask: Is there a need for Sida money to hold a hearing in Zimbabwe's Parliament? I don't think so. It's not very complicated. You invite the public or whoever is going to ask questions to come in and do it. Like no money is needed for that; they understand exactly how it is done. It is almost a little downgrading to these people that they are said to need assistance to carry out things that are absolutely fundamental. There is no need for aid. They can do it on their own – if they want to do it. As far as the national audit in Zimbabwe is concerned, it does not work in the same way as the Swedish National Audit Office. It's important to understand. The National Audit is there to give the regime an alibi while it plunders the country's natural resources and sells them to the Chinese. That is what the national audit is doing there, and it is directly inappropriate to support it with money. I welcome, of course, the announcement from the Minister for Development that this part of the aid will be phased out. That's how I understood it. I think that is a step in the right direction. I am very happy about that, and I thank you very much for that because that aid is directly inappropriate.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-298	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the discussion. I myself think it is important to discuss the situation in Zimbabwe as well as in a number of its neighbours, because that region is an area of the world that is currently facing major problems and where we need to make further efforts if we are to achieve a development in which people have the opportunity to realise their dreams of the future in a good way. There are basically good conditions for a good life, but the politicians and the political system that exists in Zimbabwe have certainly not delivered any of the things you think should reasonably be implemented. As I said earlier, there have been hopes for change, not least in connection with the elections held last year. Now we see that those hopes have been dashed, and we must bear the consequences of that. However, I think it is important that we do not leave Zimbabwe and the Zimbabwean people. Today, perhaps more than ever, we need the help of the international community to cope with the day-to-day crisis in the country.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-300	Madam President, I would like In the last reply I received from the Minister for Development, I have nothing to say about it, but I simply wish the Minister for Development good luck in his continued work with Zimbabwe.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-301	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ludvig Aspling!
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-302	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me about the support for Turkey through the EU's pre-accession aid instrument, the IPA. The interpeller has asked me when the accession negotiations actually stopped. The interpeller has asked me whether I believe that the first part of the IPA assistance achieved sufficient results with regard to Turkey. He has also asked me why accession aid continues to be paid out while the accession process has been stagnating for a long time. Finally, the interpellier has asked what effect I believe the halted membership process has had and should have on IPA support. The EU's relationship with Turkey is of central importance. The choices Turkey makes are therefore very important for the EU and its Member States. Sweden is working for the EU to have a common and clear Turkey policy. Dialogue in areas of common interest, as well as developments in Turkey, needs to be continued. It is important that Turkey's EU perspective is preserved. A continued EU perspective is also of great importance to the opposition, civil society and Turkey's population. This applies not least to the day when Turkey is willing to approach the European Union again. I share Ludvig Aspling's concern about developments in Turkey regarding respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Free opposition and free media are prerequisites for a pluralistic, democratic society. We continuously convey this to Turkish representatives in Stockholm, Ankara and other places where we meet. The negative developments in Turkey have had consequences for the country's proximity to the EU. Since the summer of 2016, no membership negotiations have taken place. The EU provides pre-accession assistance to candidate and potential candidate countries to support the development and reforms necessary for EU integration. However, pre-accession aid in itself cannot, of course, alone create the necessary change in Turkey. The European Court of Auditors has reviewed pre-accession aid in Turkey until 2017. The review notes that the results have been better in, for example, customs and taxation than in sectors such as the rule of law and administration. The European Court of Auditors also notes that the capacity of Turkish authorities to implement projects has not always been satisfactory. Against this background and the continuing negative developments in Turkey, the EU has had to change pre-accession aid. Political assessments and changes in aid have always gone hand in hand. In 2016, a substantial readjustment of aid to Turkey began. In terms of volume, annual aid has decreased to less than half of the average for the period 2014 to 2016. A significantly higher share is now allocated to the rule of law area, to efforts to promote democratic development and to civil society. At the same time, the part of the funds administered by the Turkish authorities is decreasing. Sweden has supported these changes. It is natural that aid instruments such as pre-accession aid need to be developed when conditions change. We will continue to work to ensure that adjustments are made in ways that do not affect areas such as the rule of law and democracy. A viable civil society is a prerequisite for a positive development in Turkey in the longer term. Pre-accession aid is one of the tools that the EU has to support development and reforms that contribute to Turkey's EU approach and reform of the country. Sweden will continue to work to ensure that this tool is used as efficiently as possible.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-313	Madam President, I would like Turkey is today an unstable and authoritarian state that does not act very constructively in the conflict in neighbouring Syria, arrests the most journalists in the world, oppresses the domestic democratic opposition and is led by a pronounced Islamist. In the light of political developments, membership negotiations with the country have in practice halted. In the EU Board on 18 October 2017, the Prime Minister stated that it would therefore also be reasonable for pre-accession aid to Turkey to be affected. We agree with the Prime Minister on this. It is perfectly logical that pre-accession aid should be affected when membership negotiations are not held. However, this has not really happened. The accession aid to Turkey is via the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, IPA, which was implemented between 2007 and 2013. Then there was a follow-up between 2014 and 2020. The Commission also writes on its website that IPA II is based on the results achieved with IPA. In total, this support comprises almost SEK 40 billion. Turkey thus receives the most of all candidate countries. Of these, approximately SEK 20 billion is allocated for the years 2018 – 2020, i.e. a period when no membership negotiations are conducted. In other words, it seems that the part of the EU responsible for accession and the part responsible for accession aid have completely different views on this issue. Furthermore, since we submitted this interpellation, the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs has voted to formally complete the accession negotiations, which we believe would be the only reasonable thing in this situation. This took place after the committee received prior information on the annual report on the progress of these negotiations. In a statement, the members of the EPP Group summarised the key problems as follows: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like None of this seems to give any impression on the Swedish government. In particular, I am responding to a part of the interpellation response, which said that a continued EU perspective is also of great importance to the opposition, civil society and Turkey's population. This applies not least to the day when Turkey is willing to approach the European Union again. ..................................................... Firstly, I would like to point out that what really matters to the Turkish opposition is that Europe shows that it is prepared to mark when the opposition office is blown to bits and their representatives are put in prison, for example by reducing aid. But this does not seem to be of interest to the Social Democrats or the government. Secondly, this reveals how obsessed the government is still with bringing Turkey into the EU. The plan is therefore to continue paying out aid, even though there is no possibility whatsoever for Turkey to be involved and they themselves do not want to do so, with the sole aim that perhaps at some point in the future they might change their mind and wish to join the Union once again. When you follow Swedish development policy you get quite used to hearing about waste and failed efforts, but this must still be some kind of record. I find it very strange. Let me get this straight. Is the aim of continuing to pay out the money in order for Turkey to turn to the EU at some point in the future, to change and to want to become a more European-minded state? It seems like a complete cocoon, if I may put it that way.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-321	Madam President, I would like I would strongly argue that Sweden, Europe and the EU have a very strong interest in continuing dialogue with Turkey. Turkey will not move. It is likely to remain in the border country outside the EU and is therefore one of our largest and most important neighbours. In Turkey, 80 million people live, as many as in Germany. The country is a large and important part of our neighbourhood. Historically, we can see that the aid and pre-accession aid given to a number of countries outside the EU have been important in contributing to progress towards reform of the rule of law, as well as democratic development. Now this development has largely halted in Turkey. We have had a very negative process in the country in recent years, and this has affected the support. Support has been adapted to the conditions and achievements of the reform process, and it has also been greatly reduced as a result of political developments and has also focused more on promoting democracy. After adjustments to the financing, the planned support to Turkey between 2018 and 2020 is approximately half of the figure referred to by the interpelllant, i.e. SEK 10 billion for three years. This change is due precisely to the developments we have seen in Turkey in recent years. Although we have often been very critical, and should continue to be so, of how Turkey has developed, it is the government's firm belief that dialogue and cooperation must continue. This is how Sweden and the EU can create the conditions for influencing Turkey and its future choices. Many of the efforts made bilaterally between Sweden and Turkey today also aim directly at strengthening the opposition and people working for human rights in Turkey. This is of great importance to many of those who are working to create a positive development.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-327	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I agree with much of what the Minister for Development emphasises. Support for the opposition in Turkey is absolutely excellent. Support to help civil society and support human rights and democratic development is also great. I fully agree with the Government on this, and that is not really what is at the heart of this interpellation. The support we give to Turkey via IPA is not only aimed at these very things, but also very much at things such as adapting Turkey's agricultural legislation to the EU's aki, for example – a fairly long-term project with quite a lot of funding. It serves no purpose for the Turkish population or for democratic development. The only purpose of this is to prepare Turkey for accession to the Union, and that is what I am critical of. With regard to the figure, EUR 10 billion instead of EUR 20 billion, the Commission must start updating its website a little more often. The figure of 20 billion I picked up last week; it's still there. If the Commission has reduced this to 10 billion, it is great – of course I am pleased about it. But it should be reduced to about zero. That would be the best part. We are, of course, in favour of dialogue and cooperation with Turkey where appropriate. But now we are in a position to negotiate a forthcoming European budget, a rather tough negotiation in which Sweden and the government represented by Peter Eriksson have taken a reasonable reasonable position, which is that the budget should not increase but be kept to 1% of GDP. Then you have to start looking for things to cut back on. This is an excellent thing to cut back on, isn't it? We are still paying out SEK 10 billion in aid to a country in order for it to become a member of the European Union, while no negotiations are in progress and at the same time a majority in Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs is saying that it wants to suspend the negotiation and remove Turkey's candidate status. At the same time, the Turks themselves show with all the necessary clarity that they are not interested in European development, if that is what you call it. What I would like above all is to look at this issue a little bit from a tax payer's perspective: is it appropriate to spend money on? The answer to that question is no, Peter Eriksson, and I hope that the Swedish Government will take this line in the forthcoming negotiations on the MFF, i.e. that this is a budget line that will shrink.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-333	Madam President, I would like Of course, one can stop acting, stop working together and stop trying to contribute to positive developments in countries close to us as soon as one sees that developments are going in the wrong direction, but I do not believe that this is in the interests of taxpayers in Europe. I do not believe that it promotes human rights or democratic development in Turkey in any way. On the contrary, if we are to have a positive development, I believe that we should try to make efforts that contribute to it, rather than trying to go the other way. Let me give you some examples of what is happening today. Through a Civil Society Facility, support can be provided to Turkish organisations for activities that defend human rights, cultural initiatives that contribute to a more open social dialogue or activities that promote women's participation in decision-making. Through scholarship programmes such as Erasmus Plus and Jean Monnet, Turkish students and academics can create networks within Europe, thereby strengthening their European identity and presence. The pre-accession aid instruments also allow for support in other sectors of common strategic interest, such as the environment and the energy sector. During the remaining period of IPA II, i.e. 2018 – 2020, priority actions will continue to build capacity and align legislation with the EU regulatory framework in areas such as renewable energy, energy efficiency, adaptation to climate change and water and sewage to create better conditions for human health and water supply in Turkey. These are changes which, as far as we can see, are not about Turkey becoming a member of the European Union, but about creating institutions and developments so that there will be positive developments in Turkey and cooperation. We can have economic development that is positive and, at the next stage, we also hope for democratic development and positive development of human rights. I think that there is a great value in this. I believe that Swedish taxpayers also benefit from the fact that Turkey continues to have a window on Europe and that Europe continues to have a window on Turkey, rather than turning elsewhere and developing in a direction that poses a greater risk of conflict and problems in our vicinity and just beyond Europe's borders.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-339	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Development deals with matters that are not at all part of the area of interpellation. We have never said that we should stop trading with Turkey or that Turkey should be excluded from the customs union. We're behind the fact that they're there. Nor have we ever said that we should stop cooperating with Turkey in areas where appropriate. We are all in favour of this. That goes without saying. But the interpellation isn't about that. The intervention is about the aid that the European Union and Sweden are giving to Turkey to help them become a member of the European Union, while Turkey does not want to become a member of the European Union. The Minister for Development deals with such things as Erasmus plus and cultural initiatives. Erasmus plus is a huge number of countries that work together within without having any chance of joining the European Union. There are people from South Korea studying through Erasmus plus. It has nothing to do with this. The Minister talks about helping Turkey with cultural initiatives. The culture there is hostile to women in several ways – it is certainly true – so there is certainly an improvement potential. However, it should also be borne in mind that Turkey is not a poor country. I believe that Turkey has an average bnp per capita of around 20 000 – 28 000 dollars. It is therefore a richer country than several EU countries. Romania and Bulgaria are poorer than that. So the question is whether we are spending the money properly. Should we support Turkey to develop its culture? The Turks have plenty of money to do themselves if they want to. And if they do not want to, should we develop their culture in the opposite direction to what they themselves want? Nor does it seem that well spent tax money. I think the Minister for Development still has a lot to think about. I hope there will be a little reflection before the budget negotiation this year.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-346	Madam President, I would like There is always a change and a focus on EU aid depending on what is happening in Turkey. As I said earlier, it has declined sharply in recent years and has focused more on democracy and on building institutions that function and uphold the principles of the rule of law. Although developments in Turkey have in many ways gone in the wrong direction, I do not think that we should give up. It is a large and important country in our vicinity. The EU can contribute to positive development, and it would be a great pity if we did not take those opportunities. If this door is closed, it could lead to a much worse and more negative development in Turkey, which is turning in other directions and completely losing the interest in democracy that has existed anyway. Many people in Turkey still hope that development will change and that democratic development will improve. They hope that Europe can contribute to this, and we do so in many ways. I do not think there is much reason to agree with the interpellier's concern about EU support. However, there is reason to be concerned about developments in Turkey and to do what we can to change it.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-349	Madam President, I would like Viktor Wärnick has asked me what measures I intend to take or propose to overcome the cormorants and their harmful effects. The cormorant and how it is to be managed is an important issue. The development of the cormorant stock is currently deemed to be stable at national level. As the joints move, for example for food purposes, this can lead to increased presence in some places while decreasing presence in other areas. I am aware that fishing can be adversely affected because cormorants can take caught fish and damage fishing gear. There are also indications that cormorants locally may have a negative effect on fish stocks. I am also aware that nature in connection with nesting places for cormorants is changing. The amount of cormorants locally can be perceived as problematic. I understand that this can affect the archipelago's attractiveness and the development of archipelago-related tourism. In order to reduce the effects of cormorant damage, the Maritime and Fisheries Programme supports investments in equipment to protect gear and catches from mammals and birds protected by the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive, provided that it does not undermine the selectivity of fishing gear and that all appropriate measures are put in place to prevent physical damage to predators. The measure also covers aid for inland fishing under the same conditions. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has overall national responsibility for hunting issues. The management of cormorants is regionalised, and if justified, the County Administrative Board can decide on a protection hunt. The government does not currently intend to propose a change in this order but is closely following the issue. When permits for protection hunting are granted, it is also important that efforts are made to make full use of the permit.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-354	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Rural Development for his reply. That I put this interpellation to the Minister is due to the acute problems that prevail in Sweden in general and in Gävleborg County in particular because of the cormorants and their progress. Along the coast of Gävleborg County, from which I come, the cormorants have tripled in just two years. By far the biggest increase has occurred in the municipality of Söderhamn, my municipality of residence, outside the town of Sandarne. The presence of the cormorant impairs the conditions for fishing and accommodation in the archipelago. As you know, the bird eats large quantities of fish, and feces cause the vegetation of the islands where the cormorants basically die. This is a major problem to be taken seriously. For municipalities, such as those along the Gävleborg coast, where the archipelago is absolutely central to development and tourism, this risks completely destroying the conditions for future investments. It is simply not attractive to stay in the environments where the joints are present. There is clearly a reason to review the need for protection of the cormorants in Sweden. Just as the Minister indirectly said, the cormorants in Sweden at population level are not threatened at all, rather the opposite. Therefore, it will not help with any simple disruption operations from year to year or with continuing in the same way as before. Effective measures and tools must be put in place. In the reply I have received from the Minister, I think it is most described how the cormorant administration functions and is regulated today. I would like the Minister to take a closer look at what the government intends to do further to overcome the obvious cormorant problem.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-359	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Viktor Wärnick, for this interpellation! It is a very urgent and important issue, so also in my home country of Östergötland. Up until Sweden's entry into the European Union, 1995, we had general hunting time for stork in Sweden. However, as the species is listed in the EU Birds Directive, any general pursuit of cormorants within the Union is prohibited. In Sweden there are now over 40 000 nesting couples, unlike 1 000 when the Birds Directive came into being. Despite this, protection hunting on stork is rarely granted. The cormorant is in great conflict with man because of the competition with the fishing industry. The cormorants themselves can wipe out the entire annual stock of trout rejuvenation, for example. It also collects fish from fishing gear and crops and destroys fishing equipment for large sums of money annually. The sanitary impact of this bird through its highly fragrant and corrosive feces also makes it a pest both for the fishing industry and for the general interest in the archipelago, lake and coastal environment. It is not difficult to imagine the damage it does to Swedish nature and the fishing industry.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-363	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking Viktor Wärnick for raising the issue. It is, of course, urgent that we keep following developments. The whole country should be able to grow and develop. It is important both from a nutritional perspective and from a visitor's perspective. It is not irrelevant in this context, when we talk about the coastal and the archipelago. And it is important from a housing perspective – it is important for people who live there to have a balanced and good policy in this area. This does not in any way mean that the issue is straightforward. We do not entirely own the issue on our own, but it is a matter regulated by a directive within the European Union. At the same time, of course, we have tools in Sweden, nationally, that we will use, not least linked to the possibility of protection hunting. I note that I think it is a good thing that we at the Swedish level have chosen to regionalise the issue and that responsibility lies with the county boards. This means that decision-making powers exist regionally and closely with those concerned by the issues. The county administrative boards grant protection hunting. That's my picture. This can be done in two ways. This can be done on the basis that individuals or the general public seek permission to hunt, and this can be done on the initiative of the County Administrative Board. There is every reason to consider how to clearly inform about the opportunities available. It is also a question of trying to ensure that decisions on protection hunting are fully complied with. The problem in this context is not that the county administrative boards are particularly nifty in granting protection hunting. It is a problem, however, that one does not shoot off in accordance with the granted protection hunt. There is a limited interest in hunters to shoot – for various reasons, which I think we should perhaps not go into right now. The question is therefore complex. We follow it continuously over time. However, at the moment I do not intend to take any new action in this area. My picture is that we have the tools required from the point of view of the role of politics. On the other hand, there is a great deal to be done in terms of providing information on the opportunities available and in terms of ensuring that full delivery is made on the basis of the opportunities available.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-369	Madam President, I would like According to the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg, there were 3,500 joiners last year along the Gävleborg coast. 2,300 of them were located in the municipality of Söderhamn. That's an incredibly high figure. This has enormous consequences for all those living and working in these areas. I don't know if the Minister for Rural Affairs has seen what a splicing island looks like, so I've brought a picture with me. The picture depicts one of the islands outside Kjeratten in Sandarne, in Söderhamn municipality. It is one of the places that has become most associated with the trail's advance in Gävleborg County. The picture was taken last year, in the middle of the Swedish high summer, when the greenery is otherwise most beautiful. It's not a nice sight. Bad smelling ghost islands should not be part of the Swedish archipelago. I was on site in the area last autumn and was described by the residents how it is to live with the cormorants so close to the farstukvisten. The stench of feces and the ruined archipelago environment are constantly present for them. This is the reality for many people who feel a disillusionment in the face of the inability of the state and the public to overcome the vermin that the cormorants are in these areas. We Moderates promised in the autumn's election to work to ensure that decisions on joint management are taken as close as possible to those concerned. I hope that the government will land in the same conclusion as soon as possible. Legislative changes, Madam President, obviously need to be made, because, as the Minister points out, the scope for action of the County Administrative Board is too limited. Perhaps the will is too limited. Many people around our country believe that the cormorant is an invasive species that does not even belong in the Swedish fauna. Even if you do not want to go that far in your positions, you must reasonably realise that in some areas it is now an unreasonable inconvenience that must be removed. I and many with me think that the municipalities must have much more real opportunities for influence when it comes to joint management. A reconciliation with the minister's party colleagues in Gävleborg and Söderhamn is just a phone call away – she can get confirmation that they feel the same way. There is consensus across party boundaries on the issue in the municipalities concerned. Unfortunately, my conclusion is that the problem is here in Stockholm and in the so-called Green Party, which is also part of the government. Madam President, I would like It is not on until summer is at the door and the cormorants again circles in the sky along the Gävleborg coast and in other places around the country. Is it really the Minister's only answer that the Government is following the question closely? Should the residents of Kjeratten be forced to have another summer destroyed by these birds?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-377	Madam President, I would like In my home country Östergötland, the cormorant has become an ever-increasing problem that is spreading. The number is increasing greatly, and the cormorants have spread from the coast into the country and into our inland lakes. It is therefore not just a problem for our coastline and our archipelago, which is of course bad enough in itself. In Lake Tisnaren the eel has disappeared completely because of the cormorants. Fish stocks have fallen sharply. In Roxen, 3 tons of fish are estimated to disappear every day because of the cormorants. Not long ago we had five full-time fishermen in Roxen. Now there's one left. Several islands in Roxen are now completely dead. It is quite clear that the protection hunt granted by the County Administrative Board is not sufficient and that general hunting time is required on cormorants. The minister said she wasn't prepared to make any changes to the rules. However, I must ask: does the Minister mean that we do not want to modernise the birds directive that came to 1979? What does the Minister intend to do to mitigate Sweden's application of the directive?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-380	Madam President, I would like I can first conclude that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, on behalf of the Government, has developed a national management plan for cormorants. It seeks to manage and balance the conflicts surrounding the issue. I also share the interpellier's view that it is good if decisions on these kinds of issues are taken as close as possible to those concerned. That is why I think it is good that this issue is regionalised, which means that the county boards have the ultimate responsibility. The county administrative boards have also developed and taken various measures. For example, the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg has developed a regional management plan for cormorants. This is positive given that the local stock is different in different places and that a well-balanced regional decision can be made in these plans. I understand that the interpellant believes that more of the responsibility for protection hunting or other things should be transferred to the municipalities. There is nothing on the government's agenda, but there are other tools that can be used in municipalities. For example, in some places it has been found that sea eagles are good in this context, given that they eat cormorants. An increased population of sea eagles is then part of the natural chain. For example, in Sotenäs Municipality in Västra Götaland County, there are projects that feed sea eagles to attract them to the area. I realise that this is on a small scale and a tool among many, but I think the big part is that we are now having a debate which seems to assume that we cannot or must not hunt to the extent that we would like. That the problem would be that there are a lot of permits being sought to be allowed to hunt for cormorants that you get no on at the county administrative board does not really match the picture I have got. Rather, the authorisations applied for are generally granted but not used to the full. Well, someone's going after this joint, but the interest in actually chasing joins is small. If the interpellants have ideas and ideas on how to induce hunters to find it more interesting to hunt cormorants than they evidently think today, I would welcome them and, if so, look at such proposals. I share the interpellant's concerns about the cormorant population and how it affects the archipelago fishing in particular. I am therefore pleased with all the initiatives taken at large and in small places, and I believe that it will be necessary to continue to work broadly at national level with national management plans and at regional level by refining and developing regional management plans. It is also a matter of both informing and informing about the tools available in this area as well as other types of local options – sea eagles or other.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-388	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I cannot interpret the Minister for Rural Development in any other way than that we now have another summer ahead of us with major problems in Sweden's coastal and archipelago life due to the fact that the cormorants will also be allowed to wreak havoc. If so, it is an extremely sad news. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's measures and the management plan from the County Administrative Board in Gävleborg are not enough. The previous year when we saw this strong increase in Gävleborg, there was no protection hunt in Söderhamn municipality at all. I think sea eagles are a far-fetched solution to the problem. The fact that the cormorant stock is deemed to be stable at national level, as the Minister initially pointed out, is a small comfort for all who live and operate along the coast of Gävleborg, where the cormorants have tripled in two years. My position is that we must now do everything we can to prevent the rampage of the cormorant – not another summer like the previous one! I can see that the ball is now with the government. I would therefore like to conclude by welcoming the Minister on a visit to Gävleborg. Whenever it suits me, I can and surely some of the minister's party colleagues in Gävleborg and Söderhamn municipality together show her the effects of the bird's advance in the worst affected areas in Sweden, which is located in Sandarne in Söderhamn. Just come back to me and I promise I'll take care of this.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-392	Madam President, I would like I do not get the impression that we are very far apart on this issue. We share the view that this is problematic in some areas and that it is problematic for both the fishing and tourism industry and for those living in the area. However, I do not hear in the debate any concrete proposals as to what we are going to do, which I still interpret as a sign that this is complicated and that no direct legislative shortcomings have been identified that should be addressed at national level. A little sweeping it was said that the municipalities should be given greater responsibility. In this case, it would mean changing the whole management system around who can authorise protection hunting. A more reasonable measure in this context should be to ensure that the municipalities' influence over decision-making within the framework of the County Administrative Board's mandate is clear. I think that the best way to do this is to have good information on the opportunities available. I think we are jointly concerned about the problem, where there are problems. I am happy to come out and visit places, and I am very open and welcoming to concrete proposals as to what it is that should be adjusted in legislation at national level to address the problem. So far in this debate I have not taken note of any concrete proposal.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-395	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked the EU Minister why the European Union has chosen not to set clear follow-up performance targets in spending areas 1 and 2 and how European taxpayers should know whether their investment in growth and equalisation has produced the expected results if no targets are set. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Let me begin by saying that the Swedish Government wants to see a results-oriented implementation of the EU's joint investment. This applies both to the long-term budget for 2021 – 2027 and to the investments made in the current budget period. Headings 1 and 2 of the Commission's draft budget contain more funds and programmes than the Structural Funds. It also includes budget lines for sectoral policy areas, including research, transport and education. I understand, however, that this interpellation is about the management of the Structural Funds' results. The Structural Funds, i.e. the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund plus and the Cohesion Fund, represent one third of the entire draft budget for 2021 – 2027. The Structural Funds are implemented through seven-year programmes. A key element in the development of the programmes is the setting of quantifiable objectives for action. In the run-up to the current programming period, the requirement for clear results to be achieved increased. Responsible authorities and project owners are continuously working on the basis of these objectives and indicators to monitor and report the results of the actions. At EU level, this can be followed through the Commission's Open Data Portal. The Funds are also important tools in the implementation of the comprehensive Europe 2020 strategy on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. Within the framework of the Strategy, each Member State has set its own follow-up national targets. As an example in a way for the public to follow Structural Fund investments, I would like to mention the possibility of seeing project results presented in different locations in the country during My Europe Week 4 – 12 May 2019. In August 2019, the Swedish Government will submit a progress report to the Commission. The report shall report on the results and fulfilment of milestones at half-time of the current programming period. Corresponding reports shall be submitted for all Member States. This allows everyone to get a picture of what has been achieved so far. Let me conclude by emphasising that the Swedish Government wants to see continued results-oriented implementation of the Structural Funds. Sweden also wants to see horizontal principles, including gender equality, in both preparation and implementation of all programmes. This is emphasised in the ongoing negotiations on the draft regulations for the period 2021 – 2027.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-404	Madam President, I would like Since its entry, Sweden has contributed approximately SEK 600 billion to the EU's common budget. It is by far the largest investment in Sweden's history. The total EU budget for 2021 under this proposal is approximately SEK 1 660 billion, and about half of this is allocated to the first two areas of expenditure. The first area of expenditure is aimed at creating economic growth through research, infrastructure and digitalisation, and the second is aimed at reducing economic disparities between EU countries through so-called Structural Funds. We are not opposed to support for the less developed parts of Europe on principle. But the conservative starting point is always that public funds should be treated carefully. Beware of this type of development work is to set follow-up and clear goals about, for example, the number of jobs created, the number of companies started or the number of people who have access to some type of infrastructure, such as roads. Without such targets, it is impossible for voters to know whether the investment is successful or wasted. In parallel to how development aid is managed, it is clear. Sida, for example, requires that all projects and programmes have objectives that enable monitoring and reporting of results. We have commissioned the parliamentary investigation service to examine the objectives and follow-up for the first two areas of expenditure. So I am referring to the entire areas of expenditure in the interpellation. The Investigative Service replies that no quantifiable objectives have been found which could serve as a basis for an evaluation of the policy. Some evaluation takes place, but according to the investigation service, the objectives are described in rather general terms, which makes it difficult to answer afterwards whether they have been followed up or not. Madam President, I would like Budgetary cooperation is delivering a never-ending stream of scandals about corruption, embezzlement and the murder of journalists digging into it. The problem goes all the way to the European Council, where the de facto leader of the Social Democrats in a large Member State is personally suspected of embezzling hundreds of millions of crowns in the construction of roads. The EU anti-corruption authority recommended for 2017 the withdrawal of funds equivalent to approximately SEK 30 billion, which is a new record. Budgetary cooperation is currently in some cases very badly managed. It is equally bad that we seem to be the only party to take this seriously. I am also reacting to the rather weak rejection offered by the Government in its interpellation response. She says that the responsible authorities and project owners set objectives for the operation. At least that's how I interpret it. Madam President, I would like It is not good enough to leave it to officials to manage performance management. Firstly, it is not officials who decide on the size and distribution of the budget. It's politicians who do. It is therefore unreasonable that officials should also set objectives for their activities. Secondly, it is not officials who have political responsibility. We don't pick heads of government or administrators in elections, do we? Madam President, I would like What the Government presents in the interpellation response is an excuse to avoid taking responsibility for extremely expensive projects with to some extent questionable results. Hiding behind officials in this way is simply not good enough. I would therefore like the Government to answer a very simple question: why does the Union choose not to set clear and follow-up objectives in the draft budget? So that is what this interpellation is about. Why is responsibility given up in this way?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-413	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating that we agree that it is important to have clear, measurable and follow-up objectives. It is an issue that Sweden, as a nation, is pursuing in all contexts within the framework of EU cooperation: in the case of the Structural Funds, in the case of the CAP on which we are currently negotiating, in the case of budget and budgetary monitoring. Sweden has, at least in part, been successful in getting through this kind of better order when it comes to these things. It is clear now that we are negotiating the CAP that they have listened to Sweden and like-minded countries because they are now working much more clearly for both clear objectives and transparency, which is another issue that Sweden is pushing very hard. Somewhere I can think it is a very clear receipt that the issue is important from a Swedish perspective. I do not see any political contradiction in this in the Swedish Parliament. Then I can agree with the interpeller that there is still much to be done in this area. There have been many childhood diseases in the implementation of these programmes. They've been hard to follow. We have had criticisms that it has been difficult to search them, that the systems are complicated and so on. At the end of the day, it is a balance that needs to be struck. The more rules you have, the more complicated the regulatory framework is and the more parameters it is, the easier it is to follow up but the harder it is to apply for the money. This is a balance of things that should be constantly weighed against each other in order to find reasonable ways. My picture is that you gradually get better and better. But with that said, I and the government are not satisfied with how far they have come. We intend to continue working continuously at EU level to drive the Swedish entry values in terms of how to design the programmes and regulations for them. But we also intend to work nationally with how we then manage this at Swedish level, where we also need to be much clearer and of course much better. Then it is difficult to answer a question that is addressed in this way without referring to the work being done. And the work that is actually being done is at project-owner level. It is not, therefore, a way of avoiding answering the question, but rather a finding of where the questions are actually owned, managed and carried out. So I must say that I do not really understand the criticism. Finally, I am unsure exactly how it comes in and what the purpose of the little stick line was, but it is noted that there are representatives accused of corruption and doing a bit of a thing out of that it was an S-leader who was accused of it. I am not sure what the purpose of that line was in this context, but if I were Ludvig Aspling, I would have been very careful to make excessive links with parties belonging to the group of the European Parliament to which someone belongs. I intend to stay too good to stand and list the problems that the Swedish democrats' cooperation parties in the EU are generating and causing.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-419	Madam President, I would like First of all, I believe that the Government does not really know the various areas of expenditure in the draft budget. So the interpellation is not about CAP. CAP has nothing to do with this, and I do not understand why the Council of State is taking it up at all. As far as clear and follow-up objectives are concerned, and that we would agree on this point, it depends a little on how the issue is defined. We believe that there should be clear and follow-up objectives that govern the business and that make it possible to demand political responsibility. The Social Democrats seem to be more convinced that it is something you say every seven years, when it is time for the MFF, and then you let it depend and become a bit like it gets. The fact is that these objectives do not exist today, despite the fact that the Social Democrats have been in power in Sweden for many years and that Sweden has also negotiated the European budget. Growth is the purpose here. It is important to understand that this money does not come out of an inexhaustible exchange that can only be cashed out, but the money we plow down into spending areas 1 and 2 is tax money. If you leave tax money in the hands of ordinary people, they can also cause growth, by people being able to make their own investments, consume and so on. So it is quite important to think a little bit about whether these funds are a good way to create growth. Or is it better to let ordinary taxpayers keep the money for themselves? That is the measurement you have to do somewhere, and it is that balance that will be very difficult if there is not a plan from the beginning that we will create this and so many jobs or create opportunities for si and so many companies to start s. Referring to the work that is taking place is an excuse. That's exactly what it is. My question in the interpellation was: why are there no clear and follow-up objectives in the draft budget? To refer to that is not the way you do it is not good enough. It must nevertheless be possible to defend the rules of procedure which it itself represents. The European Union has chosen not to include any clear and follow-up objectives in the draft budget, and that is not the only way to do so – it must also be possible to defend that position. That is what I want to know: why are the objectives not there?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-425	Madam President, I would like I can only say that the rules, the rules and the way in which they are designed are complex and difficult areas. It is not quite clear what the interpellier is referring to in his interpellation, and it is evident that it is not – I must take on this – quite clearly what I am referring to in my reply. To be clear: As I understand it, there is a criticism in the interpellant about what Sweden does and does not do in these matters to push for clearer regulations at EU level, better follow-up and more of a Swedish way of dealing with these issues. Then, among other things, we are discussing the regulatory framework that is within the framework of the Structural Funds as a starting point. To show the Swedish commitment and how we look at all these questions, I chose to answer by exemplifying how we are doing CAP. I am well aware that CAP is a completely different issue from this one. I thought it was clear in my reply that I used it as an example to show how the Swedish Government sees the importance of clear objectives that are measurable and how we see the problem that it is not always the case in Europe. I wanted to show that it is a priority and that we have it in all areas vis-à-vis the European Union. It is very nice that the interpellant has great faith in the Swedish Social Democracy's ability to negotiate in Brussels and that he expects it to be what we think on all issues. It's nice to hear it, but both the interpellant and I know it's not that simple. Regardless of the political colour of the government, Sweden, at least in recent years, has agreed to pursue this type of issue. We are seeking support from like-minded countries, and we have been successful but not all the way through. We continue to push forward within the framework of European work to push for more clear, measurable and follow-up objectives at every point – including in the budget work. It is too early to say exactly what the regulatory framework will be for the next period, which is what we are negotiating now. There is a risk that the interpeller will say that he has not made an interpellation about the budgetary negotiations that are going on right now, but I find it difficult to see how to respond to how we want to change and improve without talking about how we are working on the issues that are currently in the pipeline. With regard to the budget negotiations currently under way, I can note – and perhaps a little bit of the interpellant said – that the Swedish focus has been very clearly on ensuring that the membership fee does not increase as a result of the British withdrawal from the Union. We are probably not going to be completely successful there; one will certainly not go on the Swedish line to 100%. However, it has been appallingly clear, and in this House there has been a great deal of agreement, that this is the priority issue.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-431	Madam President, I would like The government was a little unsure of what I was talking about, so let me clarify a parallel to another area of expenditure. In the NDICI in Category 6 there is something called the partnership with Africa. The partnership with Africa aims to create 10 million jobs in Africa. It is very simple: 10 million jobs will be created. After the end of the programming period, we will be able to look for and see if 10 million jobs have been created or not. If they have not been created, the policy has not reached the goal, and if it has been created, the policy has reached the goal – very easily. That is exactly the kind of follow-up objective I would like to see in the draft budget, and that is what does not exist. I agree that these are complex issues. This is a huge amount of money and concerns several Member States. I have full respect for the fact that this is not easy. I am not standing here saying that it is a failure if it is not just as perhaps I or the Social Democrats would like it and that it would mean that the Social Democrats are incompetent. That is not what I am saying, but what I am saying is that there does not seem to be much interest in this. The Government points out that things don't always turn out the way they want them to. No, I understand that, too. It's a big negotiation. After all, the Social Democrats or this government have never made the issue public. I have never heard a single minister say, in any context, that something we would like to see more of are clear and follow-up objectives in the EU budget. I've never heard that, subject to my being wrong. I have not really felt that this is at the top of the agenda, although it is an extremely important issue. That's why I think I'd appreciate it if this was something you talked about from time to time – that there's a big problem here – even if you don't get all the way through.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-436	Madam President, I would like It was good that we noted that, in order to explain what we want, we need to use examples that may not be exactly within the framework of the Structural Funds, given that we are talking about the desired development. Having said that, I object to the interpeller saying that there is little interest from the government or the Social Democrats in working towards clearer and follow-up goals. It is possible that this is something that is not linked to discussions on budget work to a large extent. However, my picture is that it is very well known and often stated that Sweden in general, as a principle, when it comes to all EU work pushes the question that there should be clear and measurable goals and that it should be transparent. One example is that gender equality work should permeate everything, and that applies to all parameters of this. We also want to see more social consideration. There are a number of principles that are fundamental to how the government views these issues. My picture is that this is both well-known and well-communicated, but I take it upon myself to ask for further clarity on this issue. I myself will try to be careful in all the contexts where I have these issues on my table to be particularly clear about this. Having said that – and I fully support it – I think we also need to have respect for the fact that everything is not measurable. Much of what is the prerequisites and added value of EU work at large are, of course, things that come as plus-effects and added-value effects. We should not underestimate this, and this cannot always be measured.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-441	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me whether the general ban on bottom trawling in protected areas, which is to be introduced under the January agreement, will cover the Kosterhavet National Park or whether fishing there will continue to be conducted and managed as it is today. Johan Hultberg has also asked me if local fisheries management like the one developed for Koster-Väderöfjorden is something I want to guard and spread to more areas. Local dialogue on fisheries management, as in the example of Koster, has proved to be a successful tool in several areas, and that is something that I will safeguard in the future as well. As far as bottom trawling is concerned, it can have a negative impact on protected species and habitats. Part of the government's policy is based on the January agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. The January Agreement provides for a general halt to bottom trawling to be introduced in protected areas. However, limited derogations may be provided for in the management plan. According to the management plan for Kosterhavet National Park, fishing in the area is regulated by the regulations of the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority. In some parts of the national park, trawling is prohibited. In the other parts, the Maritime and Water Authority has, among other things, introduced a requirement for a special permit for fishermen to be allowed to trawl for North Sea lobster in the area. In order to obtain a permit, fishermen must, among other things, have completed a short training course on the conservation values in the area and on the regulatory framework that prevails. Specific authorisations are subject to a number of conditions which ensure the possibility of adjusting measures in case of need and thus also allow for adaptive management. The authorisations are annual, allowing the Maritime and Water Authority to refuse authorisation due to possible infringements. If necessary, the regulatory framework can be adapted within the framework of the regulations of the Agency for Marine and Water Management. The County Administrative Board's assessment is that, with the existing regulations, the trawl fisheries currently carried out in Kosterhavet National Park can continue without risking the area's conservation objectives. The Environmental Code shows that the purpose of national parks in general is to maintain a larger contiguous area of a particular type of landscape in its natural state or in substantially unchanged condition. The specific purpose of Koster National Park is to preserve the very special and species-rich marine and archipelago area and the land areas nearby in substantially unchanged condition. At the same time, biological resources in the area should be able to be used in a considerate manner. The issue of a general halt to bottom trawling in protected areas and the possibility of derogation is currently being prepared within the Government Office. This includes the question of bottom trawling in Kosterhavet National Park. I see Kosterhavet National Park as a positive example of collaboration, where conservation measures have been developed on the basis of scientific evidence and where fisheries regulations are designed as far as possible in consultation with scientists and the fishing industry.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-448	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the non-answer, I must say. But I'll get back to that. I'm a proud resident. For Bohuslän, fishing is very important; not least, it has an enormous historical significance. It is to a large extent around fisheries that our societies have been built up. The same applies to the industry we have had, which has created jobs and growth in my part of the country. Unfortunately, the number of fishermen has fallen. Industry no longer has the great economic importance it once had, but it remains important. Not least, the processing industry is important. I heard the Minister for Rural Affairs in a previous debate referring to Sotenäs Municipality. This small municipality alone has about a third of the Swedish fish processing industry. I am proud that Bohuslän is always a part of every man's buffet on the midsummer table or when you celebrate Christmas. When it comes to shrimp fishing and shellfish fishing in general, with Norway lobster, this is one of the few fish we have left in Bohuslän. It still employs quite a few people, it provides good income and it does so on stocks that are sustainable. The shrimps and crayfish are really important for another basic industry that has grown up in Bohuslän in a bit more modern time, namely the tourism industry. Many pilgrimages to go to Smögenbryggan and eat fresh shrimps or to participate in shrimp peeling competitions in Strömstad. That is something that is very important, and I also think that synergy is important. One cannot ignore an industry simply because it does not directly provide so many jobs or do so much business. It is part of a larger infrastructure, and it is important both for local identity and for the local economy as a whole. With regard to this question, I have asked the interpellation on the basis of the January agreement. What I find so remarkable is that the four parties – or at least the Social Democrats – have signed the Blanco agreement. The point I raised in my interpellation was about fishing. It states that a general ban on bottom trawling should be introduced in protected areas. Then you can imagine that the four parties who sign the agreement know what is meant. But no, they don't know that. That is what I asked the Minister for Rural Affairs in this interpellation: does this mean that there will be a ban on bottom trawling in Kosterhavet, which is largely a national park? There are certainly many fishermen and many among the public who think that a national park is enough to be regarded as a protected area and thus something to be covered by this general ban. But the Minister for Rural Affairs doesn't know that. That cannot be answered by the Minister for Rural Development, but something is being prepared in the Government Office. I think that's awfully bad. At the same time – if I get a little optimistic, which one might be like this on Friday afternoon – this means that there is still room for manoeuvre and that the government has not put its heels down but that it is still possible to try to influence the government in a more reasonable direction. Fishing in Kosterhavet is, as the Minister himself said, sustainable. Adaptive management has come a very long way, and areas where trawling must not take place have been specifically identified. The fish have also been involved in developing methods that are more gentle and more selective. This is a true example to protect, and it is my strong call to the Minister for Rural Development to do so.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-460	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by being clear to Johan Hultberg that I am in no way neglecting the industry. We have had a first sitting together with the fisheries industry and discussed all the challenges facing them. Brexit is perhaps the question that is at the top of the agenda right now, but of course also bottom trawling, how to work with developing fishing tools and other issues that are important for the industry up on the table. It is my absolute ambition and intention to continue to have a dialogue with the industry on all the issues that lie in my portfolio that affect the conditions for the industry to conduct and develop its business. On this point, I can therefore reassure the interpeller. Then it is my picture, not least after having talked with parts of the industry, that politics and industry have a common interest. I believe that the industry's interest in ensuring long-term sustainable conditions for fishing is sometimes even greater. This also includes protecting conservation-worthy species and environments. There's no contradiction in that. In doing so, it is extremely important that this is done in dialogue with research, politics and industry, so that it is done in an effective way that protects what you want to protect and enables the industry that we want and need to continue to operate in this area. For example, when it comes to the Koster Sea linked to trawling, this is not a new problem. It is already a protected area. It has worked in dialogue to use the opt-out available for trawling in the area in such a way that, as far as I have been able to listen in so far, all parties are very pleased with the outcome. I think there was a question asked whether I see it as a model that could even set an example for other areas. This is, of course, one of the issues that we are now raising in the negotiations and in the review that is being carried out on the basis of the January agreement that has been signed between our four parties. Then I can say that it is becoming widely known that the Moderates nowadays, which is not my picture historically, have little faith in the need to carefully investigate and prepare questions before they come to a decision. However, I would argue that this is still a good thing. We have agreed on an overall focus on 73 different points. All 73 points are currently being prepared and produced for, so that it can subsequently result in decisions. We have three and a half years to deliver on all these points. For me, it is natural that this is how it has to go about a policy that is serious, so I think it was mostly a rhetorical trick from the honourable Member.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-465	Madam President, I would like No, it wasn't a rhetorical trick at all. It was a genuine expression of the frustration I feel about the government's fisheries policy. So we have a nutrition on our knees today. In my Bohuslän, it has gone from the fact that we have had about 700 fishing vessels to the fact that today we are down to less than 400. In terms of the age structure of the corps, the average fisherman is 55 years old. Very few new licences are issued. The industry feels that the control apparatus is huge, that one is constantly confronted with mistrust, misconceptions or disinterest. It is clear that when a move of this kind comes very much von oben, the Minister for Rural Development, it provokes reactions and causes concern. The proposal for a general ban on bottom trawling applies, of course, to protected areas. But I choose to specifically highlight Kosterhavet and Väderöfjorden precisely because it is such a good example. There, various interests have hooked their arm. It has been possible to overcome the conflicts of interest that exist, of course, at times. The Kosterhavet National Park was established after the fishermen had been on the track. There was an exchange of views on how the national park should be designed, so that fishing takes into account the most vulnerable and protected areas, but it is still possible to continue fishing, how to ensure the development of tourism but at the same time not to impose an excessive burden on the protected natural environments that are also located above the area. Now we come from above with a political agreement between four parties that we should have a general ban on bottom trawling. Then it's clear that I think it's thought through what you mean before you sign the agreement. It would have been one thing if one had had a point in the agreement that said that we must take steps to adapt fisheries to the environment or some more general point, but it is very concrete in nature. The point is that a general ban on bottom trawling should be introduced in protected areas. It has created enormous uncertainty and concern among Swedish fishermen. I've talked to a lot of people who say, "I'm not gonna give a damn about this anymore, I'm gonna quit." How are we going to attract new fishermen to this industry if it's this kind of placard political action that's coming? The Minister for Rural Development talks about long-termism. This isn't long-term. Long-termism would have been to show respect for the management model that exists there and to nurture and develop it. I think it would really have been something to export to several parts of Sweden. If we are to have a long-term approach and a truly sustainable fisheries policy, the Minister for Rural Development should really put his energy into building good relations with our friends in Europe, because that will require agreement at European level. One issue I have raised with the Minister for Rural Development in the past is that the MSC has withdrawn its sustainability label for mackerel fishing. That issue can only be resolved if we agree within the EU and with Iceland, the Faroe Islands and the countries fishing on stocks. Sweden is at the absolute forefront of fishing. We have a very committed corps of fishermen on the west coast who are pushing for the development of fishing in a more sustainable direction. As far as the crayfish is concerned, it is possible to fish with cages, but in the case of shrimps it is not possible. If the Minister for Rural Development wants to retain shrimp fishing in Sweden, which is therefore the most environmentally friendly that exists in Europe and probably also in the world, with floating trawl tables, selective rice and engaged fishermen, it is extremely important that Kosterhavet National Park is exempted from the general ban.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-474	Madam President, I would like I think we all know, if we are serious, that all proposals are always carefully prepared and negotiated for support, when necessary, before being put on the table. There's nothing strange about it, I'd like to start by pointing out. Sweden has high ambitions for marine protected areas. That, in my opinion, is a good thing. It is also my view that the fishing industry thinks it is a good thing. There is no obvious contradiction in that. A total of 10% of our seas have some form of protection. At the same time, trawl fishing is already taking place in more than 300 protected areas affected by this protection. It sounds a little bit on the interpellier like there is something completely new and strange that is now being introduced and that it risks putting everything on the back. I would just like to make it clear that this is not the case. It is not that we are finished just because we are good in an area, have areas worth protecting where we work with exceptions and in dialogue with the industry and research do this in a good way, but my picture is that there is both a need and an interest in continuing to develop these areas. When politicians say that you should look at something, there will be anxiety before you have landed in what exactly it should look like. I'm sorry that happened. I would have liked to have always had to think about the House and have all the answers before presenting a political proposal. However, it is not my view that this is very often the way we have the opportunity to work. When these proposals are being processed, it is important to do so in dialogue. I can assure both the interpeller and the industry that this proposal will also be processed in dialogue with the industry. For me, that goes without saying. My view is that the work done in Kosterhavet is a win-win model. I would like this model to be developed and modeled for how we are working on these issues. It will be my entrance when we discuss politically how to land in this point, and I am happy and grateful if I can get traction help from Johan Hultberg in my argumentation and picture of why this is important and good. The broader the political agreement on an issue, the more long-term it will be and the better the conditions for it to be well received by those affected by it. I understand and sympathise with the concerns that exist, and it is good that Johan Hultberg raises the issue as an interpellation. It is important that we constantly have a clear dialogue with the industry about the conditions, opportunities and where we want to go. It is good that we are having this discussion, and I think we will have to continue to have it.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-482	Madam President, I would like I share the view of the Minister for Rural Development that there is a great deal of interest among Swedish fishermen to participate in methodological development and to develop Swedish fisheries to be even more environmentally friendly than it already is. But let me be clear that this interest stems from the belief that it pays to go ahead and that it is appreciated that you do things on a voluntary basis. The Kosterhavet National Park would not have become a reality if the fishermen had not been positive and involved in the process. Then it is a bad blood if they risk being punished afterwards with a general ban on the fishing that is currently carried out within the borders of the national park. The Minister for Rural Development said that you do not always have the opportunity to think fully about the proposals you put forward. No, and it is quite obvious in this case. During the autumn there was a lot of discussion about napkin drawings, and if it is something that is a real napkin sketch, it is the January agreement. Each and every other point contains extreme uncertainty and ambiguity. Let us take, for example, the point of a tax review. Here you get, to say the least, divergent answers, depending on whether it is a social democrat, an environmental partyist, a centre party or a liberal one who asks what the review should aim for and lead to. I am concerned about the ease of dealing with these issues. It may not affect so many hundred people, but for them it is about their daily bread. As has already been said, it is also very much about the identity of coastal communities and the tourism industry. I appeal to the Minister for Rural Development to make a wise proposal and perhaps to listen to and push for some of the proposals I have put forward in Parliament to get a regulatory simplification commission, to develop an action plan to facilitate generational change and other things. It's necessary.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-488	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the interpellant has realised that it is not wise to put unprepared proposals directly on Parliament's table. The servett sketch is perhaps the best example of how crazy it can be when you haven't processed, negotiated and thought through. The normal way to develop politics is to have ideas about what you want to achieve that you communicate, see if there is support for and then carefully investigate according to all the rules of art – which is what we intend to do with all the points in the 73-point programme. So also this one. When we design all policies, not least policies that affect industries – it does not really matter what industry we are talking about, although this particular interpellation debate is about fisheries and specific shrimp fishing – we will not always come to the same conclusion, but it is very important to have a close dialogue in the formulation of all proposals concerning a industry or an industry. We must listen to how they view both problems and opportunities in what is existing and in any new proposals. For me, this is quite natural, and I can assure the interpeller that I will do so on this issue as well. I believe that there is great potential to link issues such as the development of new fishing methods and new tools to this issue – in addition to the work already started in the last parliamentary term when money was allocated for it. The fishing industry has been very involved and very pleased with this work. With a combination of looking in dialogue at the methods and models to ensure a viable stock, which I see the fishing industry also seeing the need for, and how to develop fishing methods and tools, we will be able to land this issue in a reasonable and good way.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-494	Madam President, I would like John Weinerhall has asked me if the government will spend more tax money on the museums for free admission. The free entry reform was carried out in 2016. The state museum authorities were then given increased funding to continue to carry out high-quality exhibition activities even when the possibilities for entrance revenues were limited. The funds allocated to each museum authority were well balanced and made it possible for everyone to have a free access to the basic exhibitions of the museums concerned. The reform also meant that the museums concerned could continue to charge adult entrance fees for temporary exhibitions, while children and young people up to the age of 18 would have free admission to all exhibitions. The Government has in several contexts, including in the Bill on Cultural Heritage Policy (prop. 2 016/ 17:116, stressed the value of an accessible cultural heritage for the individual as well as for the common. The Government attaches great importance to the contribution of the free-entry reform to equal access for all to the common cultural heritage. The National Museum is in a special situation after opening the gates of a new museum in many respects. It is gratifying that the new National Museum attracts so many people to visit and thus to encounters with art and cultural history. It is, of course, in everyone's interest that the Authority has a well-functioning long-term activity. The Government conducts a continuous dialogue with the Authority on its activities and resources.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-499	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Culture for his answer, although it did not fully answer my concerns about free admission to state museums. Just as the Minister was on the subject, access to state museums is important for individuals and for society at large. The then red-green government introduced free entrance in 2016 at 18 state museums to get more visitors to the museums. It was also done with the hope that new groups would find their way to the museums and take part in their cultural offerings. We Moderates made a different priority in the 2019 budget because we believe that the tax collective should not fund adult visits to museums. However, the newly appointed government has announced that the free entrance to state museums should remain while we Moderates like to remove it. After all, culture is greater than that of government. If we count all museums, even very small, there are over 1,700 in our country. They employ around 6,000 annual workers and raise SEK 5.5 billion in revenue, which comes from a total of 26.5 million museum visits. There are museums that are central – in the court state and universities/universities, all of which are state-regional, local, private, foundation-owned and non-profit-driven. Madam President, I would like We Moderates think that free admission to museums is a bad idea from several different aspects. As mentioned earlier, it is not the task of the tax collective to pay for museum visits for adults and working people. A large number of museum visitors are also tourists, who should reasonably have to pay for themselves. Another important aspect is that it contributes to a distorted competition, where private museums have to charge entrance fees to walk around while the state with its tax rights seems to have an inexhaustible cash to fund adult museum visits with. In addition to the principled arguments against free admission, there are also good practical arguments that free admission is a bad idea. It is true that the number of visitors is increasing with free admission, but there is also a reverse, which is that the costs are increasing. With more visitors, higher security and more cleaning is required, and the costs of preservation and so on are higher. According to Nationalmuseum's chief curator, the museum is expected to have a deficit of SEK 30 million this year because the museum is undercompensated for the free entrance. The superintendent has said in a statement that the government has two options: to allow the museum to charge a fee or to compensate for the increased costs. Given that the Minister has not clearly taken a stand on any of the above-mentioned alternatives, my question to the Minister remains whether she intends to add more tax money to the museums for free admission or whether she is willing to abolish free admission and allow adult people to go to museums at her own expense.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-507	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to assist my colleague John Weinerhall in his reflections and views on free admission to state museums. It's a highly relevant question he's raised. As the reform has been designed, it has turned out that it mainly benefits relatively well-informed and well-off inner city residents here in Stockholm, those who would already have been able to afford to pay for their entrance. It has also been shown that these people have only become more frequent in their museum visits. At the same time, the reform has been financed by the entire tax collective in Sweden, thus also by everyone who lives in my county of Gävleborg. However, the vast majority of museums that have had free entrance are not located in rural areas but in Stockholm. My question to the Minister is therefore: how does the Minister view the moral doubt that the entire Swedish people are involved in funding a free-entry reform that primarily benefits the big cities and urban dwellers?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-510	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank you for the interpellation and the opportunity to discuss the issue of free entrance, which is essentially about the availability and accessibility of our common cultural heritage, which I know we are all passionate about. Political reforms are, to a large extent, about taxing, subsidising and investing in the way that is thought to affect society in the best direction from its ideological point of view. This principle applies to government and opposition as well as to the Green Party and the Moderates. I note that the Moderates choose to spend resources on other things that are also adult people for the benefit of them. Good accessibility to our common cultural heritage means the government and I represent a great value both for the individual and for the common. As far as the evaluation of the free-entry reform is concerned, we know that it is a little too early to look at it. It's been a little hard to measure. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has a mission to look at visitor development in order to distinguish what comes from the free-entry reform and what groups the museums reach. A few years ago, in 2017, they looked at visitors at five museums, v three had introduced the free-entry reform. There was a marked increase in first - time visitors to the museums. It's a signal. But we will get the visitor numbers from last year a little later this spring, and it will be interesting to see if the measurement methods have been refined to see if new visitors to the museums have been captured. One ambition of the reform is, of course, to increase accessibility and that the economy should not be an obstacle. Speaking of the connection to children and young people, we know that many people go to museums together as a family, and there an adult's entrance fee can be what makes the decision, even if the children and young people go in with free entrance. I would also like to make a brief comment on this with the Stockholm Centre. We should remember that what the government has to dispose of with the legislation and with our direct government funding are the state museums. There are some who are not located in Stockholm, and they are expected to have 860,000 visitors. This is, of course, very positive, and we should not forget that in the debate. I also care about the diversity of museums in our country. In the cultural cooperation model, we allocate funds to regional museums, and there are county museums in all parts of Sweden. Half of these have free admissions today, and I am happy to discuss how we can continue to strengthen the museum sector throughout Sweden. With regard to our common cultural heritage and state museums, however, I and the government believe that it is a good priority to give everyone free access to the cultural heritage, the history and the knowledge they bring. I would also like to comment on the issue of the National Museum. It is important to point out that the Ministry of Culture has an ongoing dialogue with the museum about its financial situation. It is also important to remember that this is not just about the free-entry reform. The National Museum opened the doors of a basically brand new museum after five years of closure. There are large areas and completely different safety conditions and also climate conditions in the building, and costs cannot be attributed solely to the free-entry reform. But there we have a dialogue, and it is obviously in the interests of both me and everyone to have a well-functioning operation at the National Museum both now and in the long term.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-518	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that accessibility is important. We have talked about this before, and I think we agree on that. What I still have in mind is the subsidization of adult entrance fees. Politics is, after all, a matter of priorities. On the left hand side of Swedish politics you often seem to have a lot of money to spend. There is only one problem with this, and that is that it is always someone else's money. Let us not forget whose money it is. It is everyone who through work, past work, entrepreneurship and savings and who already pays among the world's highest taxes that creates the value that politicians benefit. As a moderate, it is an obvious starting point that it is those who create value who are also entitled to it in the first place and not politicians. The Nobel Prize winner in Economics, Milton Friedman, once said that there are no free lunches. That is my own translation, given that we must not speak English in this House. But sometimes the government seems to think it does. If you have the starting point that it is not primarily politicians who own the right to people's earned money, then it is also the obvious respect for taxpayers' money. I must therefore ask the Minister for Culture two questions. Is it her view that anyone who is already burdened by the heavy tax burden should have to pay for tourists and adults who can afford to pay for themselves, instead of museums having the opportunity to charge a fee? And how does she view the distorted concu rs as it becomes when 18 state museums have free entrance with tax subsidies and almost 1,700 museums in Sweden do not have this possibility through tax funds?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-521	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates feel that working adults with their own ability to pay for themselves when visiting museums, regardless of who is the head of the museum being visited. One aspect that should be highlighted in this debate is how this affects non-governmental museums, i.e. those museums that are not allowed to take part in the free-entry reform. A number of months ago, the Moderate Culture Committee visited the Fotografiska museum in Stockholm, which pointed out how the customer base is naturally more attracted to what is free of charge, although the museum is incredibly successful, gratifying enough. I am also thinking of, among other things, Flygmuseet at home in Söderhamn, Gävleborg County. It is a museum that is run on a non-profit basis and which we are incredibly proud of at home, but which does not have access to the free-entry reform. My question is: why should private – non-governmental – successful museums have a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis state museums with free admission, paid for by taxpayers?
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-525	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by commenting on John Weinerhall's question about political priorities. The effort on free admission benefits adults – why not invest in children instead? That is the point I hear a little bit in the argumentation. I would like to object to this. It's about priorities. The free entry reform was removed in the M-KD budget from last winter. What I do not understand about John Weinerhall's reasoning is why the 100 million were also removed from the cultural school. They really go to children and young people. Why, then, did they not choose to take the money you took away from free admission and invest it in other culture that you think is more meritorious? We know that there are large gaps between different groups in the accessibility of culture in Sweden. It has to do with where you live in the country, gender and age. This applies not least to children and young people. I would like to return to the fact that we have a common cultural heritage that is also state owned. I am saying this in the light of the comments made by both of my opponents. It is about collections that we have a common accessibility to. The museums have a mission that is broader than being on a kind of supply market as a visitor guide. It is also about promoting knowledge, cultural experiences and freedom of opinion. The museum should be able to be a public place to return to again and again. I and the government believe that the access of adults, children, young people and the elderly to our jointly owned museums with our jointly acquired and owned collections is a democracy issue. We maintain that the free-entry reform is good for Sweden. Then it is also about the museums that we have the opportunity to support directly in this way.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-527	Mr President, I would like to Now this is a debate about free admission to state museums, not about culture school. But I can answer the question as to why we removed this. It is a completely different matter from the state's activities in the form of museums. The School of Culture is a municipal activity. In connection with the removal of this 100 million, which is a relatively small part of the budget, we provided quite a few billion in state subsidies to the municipalities. Instead, I can turn the question around and ask the Minister for Culture why she does not have more confidence in the municipal politicians who will then distribute these state subsidies. For example, they can be used for the municipal cultural school. It could be. When the Red-Green Government introduced free entrance into state museums, what was mentioned earlier was because it hoped that more people who had not previously gone to museums would do so. At the same time, we can see that there is a rather distorted distribution among the population among those who still go to museums. According to a report from the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, there are four times as many people with post-secondary education among those attending museums as among the population as a whole. Nearly half of all visitors to the museums are from their own county, and one third are foreign visitors, i.e. tourists. When I look at this with my moderate glasses, I have to admit that I can only be very sceptical about free admission. I do not quite understand how the Minister can really consider it reasonable to pay museum visits with taxpayers' money for people who can afford to pay for themselves and for tourists from other countries. I would like the Minister to develop his answer on this a little bit.
i-5b06ce00de9166f5-530	Mr President, I would like to I am Minister of Culture in a government that stands for the museums, which are our common knowledge institutions, to be open and inviting activities. As it says in the Museum Act, the museums will promote knowledge, cultural experiences and free opinion formation, as I said earlier. A museum should be able to be discovered both by a child and by an adult. As I said, this is part of our common assets to which a great deal of access is to be found for democratic reasons. For those who have well discovered the museum, it is positive that the museum becomes a place to come back to over and over again. After almost three years of free admission, many of the state museums have more visitors than ever, while at the same time conducting a multifaceted business towards a wide range of target groups. In cases where it has been possible to analyse, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has been able to see that the group's first-time visitors at the museums have increased. This also applies to young adults. This is very positive. We see that the Free-Entrance Reform and the Museum Act, with what it means by confidence in the profession's assessments, as well as the museums' high trust capital in the public at the moment, creates a vital Museisverige with both appreciated and urgent activities. Given the availability of our common cultural heritage and the view of museums as an arena for democracy, free opinion formation and learning, I and the government stand firm that free admission reform is good for our society and good for both adults and young people in our country.
