i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-2	Madam President, I would like Hanna Gunnarsson has asked me what I think the meaning of the regulation on participation is and why it is important, if I share the questioner's view on the importance of participation in ensuring legitimacy and popular attachment to the instrument of duty and how to ensure its independence, and if I intend to make any changes to the regulation on participation in total defence obligations (2017:1249) in order to clarify the administrative connection between the Plikt Council and the Swedish Armed Forces and the Authority's practical responsibilities. Involvement in total defence is an important issue. It is important in order to give total defence professionals the opportunity to develop their activities in accordance with the objectives of the training and in order to otherwise promote good educational conditions. This applies at both local and central level. The application of the Regulation is a responsibility of the Authority and the Authority is therefore obliged to allow the involvement of the total defence-obliged. The regulation states that the members appointed as representatives of the total defence officers shall have access to the office and the office support provided by the Swedish Armed Forces. The Government is following the agency's work on the implementation of the regulation, which entered into force on 12 January 2018, and there is currently no work to amend it.
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-6	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to the Secretary of Defense for the answer to the interpellation! This interpellation is about the Pliktrådet, i.e. the five highly knowledgeable and committed people who are elected as representatives who will help improve the daily lives of conscripts and also the Swedish Armed Forces as a whole. They are worthy of our great gratitude for the work they are doing, and they pass on a proud legacy from former generations of members of the Plikt Council. I have, as I know the Secretary of Defense has also met with the current Plikt Council. They have gained the confidence of their comrades to represent Sweden's conscripts and work hard to develop procedures for participation. The council can be said to be a critical friend. With their direct experience of military service, they can be a sounding board and help develop the Swedish Armed Forces' operations but also, if necessary, point to shortcomings and find solutions. Of course, it is valuable for an authority to have such advice, which can be involved in doing things better, tied to it. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister for Defence shares the view on the importance of the Plikt Council and its participation in the Swedish Armed Forces today. However, in order for it to work as well as possible, a number of things need to be fulfilled. Firstly, the elected representatives must be taken seriously and listened to throughout the organisation. Secondly, the practical work of the Plikt Council must be carried out so that the Council can do its job with security and concentration. Thirdly, the Council must have the right and sufficient resources. Fourthly, which I think is the most important thing that this is all about, the independence of the Council vis-à-vis the Authority must be ensured. Those of us who are here at the political level are responsible for the overall structures in order for the work of the authorities to function. We in the Left Party see a problem with the regulation on participation that exists today, in particular § 18. The clause states that the Board of Appeal shall be administratively linked to the Swedish Armed Forces. We believe that this paragraph needs to be reviewed and that the independence of the Plikt Council vis-à-vis the Authority needs to be ensured. When one is elected to have influence over and sometimes examine the work of the Authority, it is problematic to be part of it, and my question to the Minister for Defence remains: how can the independence of the Plikt Council be ensured if the Council is at the same time as close to the Authority as it is today?
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-16	Madam President, I would like The regulation we have is based on how we had it in the past, when we had more extensive and broader military service. It is really the regulatory framework that existed then that has now been translated into a bottling that suits our current circumstances. On this fundamental issue, there is no difference between now and then. We considered it important to bring about a regulation of participation in the resumption of military service. We reactivated military service in a decision of 2 March 2017. We appointed a special investigator in autumn 2017, and on January 12, 2018, the regulation entered into force in order to speed up the reactivation of military service. It was a matter of heading for modernised participation in total defence responsibilities. My assessment is that it has taken some time for the Council to get started on its activities. This may have different reasons, but in essence it is up to the Swedish Armed Forces to implement the regulation and create good conditions for influence both locally and centrally. I have, as Hanna Gunnarsson said, met with the members of the Plikt Council to take note of their views. I know that they have had dialogue and contact with the Swedish Armed Forces, and the latest report I have is that they have a constructive dialogue in which they gradually try to solve the problems that have been. The staff they have today is an employed project manager, but it also supports the Council with an administrator. They have a private office, and they have arranged accommodation for members of the Pliktrådet. I believe that there are opportunities to act with criticism and scrutiny and to raise issues that one feels are overlooked in the business. This is part of the purpose. The Pliktrådet should also be able to be a cooperation body between the representatives and the Swedish Armed Forces in order to be able to resolve problems experienced in the field and for the conscripts in a constructive way. We follow the business, and I believe it will gradually develop, improve and find better forms. As I said, we are at the beginning of a process. We have had a clear dialogue with the Swedish Armed Forces on this. From a political point of view, the signal work is clear. This was fundamentally clear when we appointed the investigator and also when we decided on the new regulation. In connection with the design of this, we have had information and comments from the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Association of Officers, Saco Student Council, Sweden's Students' Unions, Sweden's Student Council – Svea and Sweden's United Student Unions. The memorandum has been referred to some twenty different authorities and organisations. This includes the Swedish Armed Forces, Saco, the Swedish Defence Federation, the Swedish Student Unions and Sweden's unified Student Unions. Therefore, careful work has been done to ensure that this is perceived as an inclusive activity. We are really serious about this being something that works well.
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much to the Minister for Defence for your answer. We agree on the importance of this. I also understand that it is the same regulation as before, but that it may be interpreted a little differently now. It's been a little bit of time anyway. What I'm thinking about quite a bit is that for some time we've known that military service would come back and plan for it. I am a little surprised that the Plikt Council's activities were not as planned as I feel that military service was from the beginning. I very much look forward to this being better gradually, as the Minister for Defence says, and that we can resolve this in dialogue. I think that needs to be done. I would like to say a few words about why this is so incredibly important. Both I and the Minister for Defence belong to parties that are very happy that military service was reinstated in Sweden. We see it as an important part of people's attachment, we see that it is necessary for recruitment to the Swedish Armed Forces in the future and we see that there is an important side effect in this by young people as conscripts meeting, working together and living together as equals. I and the Minister for Defence also belong to parties that believe that democracy and influence in society are incredibly important, not only at the overall level of society, but also at workplaces and in schools. We are in favour of strong trade unions and other associations where you can have real influence over your everyday life and the decisions that affect you. The service is also a very special type of service. In fact, we are forcing people into a business there, and that requires the state to take a special extra responsibility because it is a good working environment, good conditions and a good democratic influence. It is necessary for the anchoring and legitimacy of military service as a system. What connects conscription in itself and influence is precisely Pliktrådet. I believe that there is a clear long-standing Swedish model of influence and dialogue in different parts of our society. But there are reasons for concern, and there are shortcomings that we see that would need to be addressed. The Minister for Defence believes that this is being resolved in dialogue and that progress is being made. I am very much looking forward to following the work of the Plikt Council and in dialogue with the Members who are there actually seeing that things are getting better eventually. It was very interesting that the Minister for Defence mentioned that this was a referral to the student unions, among others, because I think it is a very interesting parallel to draw in this context. Student unions at the universities and colleges of the country have a similar assignment. On the other hand, the student unions are independent and independent organisations. They are financed by their authority, but they are guaranteed the legal right to influence and co-determination as independent and independent organisations. I think it may be a model to look further at with regard to the Plikt Council in the future in order to ensure independence. That is what I want to do to the Minister for Defence in this debate, that is to say that we are securing the independence of the Council of Plikt from the authority over which they are set to have influence and, if necessary, actually also be able to examine and point out any shortcomings and resolve them together.
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-31	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the interpeller that health and safety issues are important, that democratic influence is important and that military service is designed in such a way that it is considered to be a constructive activity. I have met many conscripts in connection with unit visits, and I usually experience strong support and a great commitment to the business. I still feel like a positive basic spirit in the work carried out today in the Swedish Armed Forces. The obligation of subordination goes on for a limited period of time, and it is also a matter of duty law. Perhaps it is not simply to bring about the continuity of this type of activity in terms of democratic influence. Based on this aspect, it is important that the state or the Swedish Armed Forces build and guarantee structures so that this can last over time. That is why, among other things, we have developed this regulation. We set up an investigation that could be stepped up so that we had all the regulations in place when military service was activated. We did it. At all, it went pretty fast when we reactivated military service. So we took the decision on 2 March 2017, and military service was activated in January 2018. During this interim period, we also had time to clarify the regulation as regards participation. Then it takes time to build an organization. It also takes time to develop the military service operations that are reactivated. It's been down for a number of years. Reactivation itself has required much of the conversion work and continues to require it. If this Parliament then decides that we will increase the number of conscripts, further change activities will be required to meet this challenge. I see that we have a foundation to stand on when it comes to this business that can be a platform, and that I experience is better now than it was when we started working on it. I see it as relationships that are partly to be regarded as natural. However, I am also looking forward to further progress in this area over the coming year and to finding ways of doing so. We have continuous contact from the Ministry with the Swedish Armed Forces, and this is one of the issues we have raised in this dialogue. I also know that the Swedish Armed Forces have had several dialogues with the Plikt Council on working arrangements and on how this should be done. However, if we are to manage this activity and get the right form of influence in the long term, I believe that the regulation we now have is a realistic way of achieving continuity and long-term sustainability. With regard to these very points of view on the possibility of examining, criticising and highlighting issues that the Authority is perceived to have overlooked, I believe that this possibility exists within the framework of this activity. It can develop more and more as time goes on. I think you can basically have a good cooperation between a duty council and the Swedish Armed Forces. I do not think that there should be any major differences in this respect, because one should have a common interest in the functioning of the business in a good way and that those with total defence feel that they have a good education, feel well treated and have a participation.
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-38	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank the Minister for Defence for his reply. We fully agree with the need for military service and that it has very strong support. The fact that we have now received back military service is good not only for the entire defense but for the whole country. We get more people in the country who have a greater knowledge of crisis preparedness and total defence. I look forward to the dialogue that the Minister for Defence is talking about continuing. However, I must say that it is clear that the work of the Plikt Council is inherently contradictory to the authority to which it operates. They have common interests, and they have a dialogue. But there is also some contradiction in the fact that, as a duty council, you should be able to point out when things do not work and perhaps have to take uncomfortable conflicts sometimes. I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for this debate. As I said, we agree on the importance of military service and on the importance of participation for conscripts. We also agree that the Plikt Council has a very great opportunity to contribute to a better defence force and a better military service in the future. However, we do not agree on the need to rewrite § 18 of the regulation on participation in order to give the Pliktrådet a more independent role, so that it should not be as administratively linked to the Swedish Armed Forces as it is. I hope that the Minister for Defence will take some new ideas from this debate and think further about this question of how we strengthen the Plikt Council and make it more independent. I very much hope that the practical problems surrounding the work of the Plikt Council that now exist can actually be resolved by the right body as quickly and effectively as possible.
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-43	Madam President, I would like I would just like to emphasise, again, that the information I have received indicates that it is working constructively on solving the practical issues. As far as the dialogue is concerned, I assume that it will continue between the Plikt Council and the Swedish Armed Forces, because that is one of the most basic things in this business. Then the very idea of having this business is that the conscripts should have an influence, which among other things is about having the opportunity to point out things where you want a change or events or phenomena that are important to raise in these contexts. So that is the basic idea. We will continue to work on the regulation and regulations that exist. I think a lot of development work can be done with it as a framework. I see it as far too early to decide that this is not working. We had a business that was largely based on these foundations earlier and that was well developed and well functioning, and that was largely because we had a large-scale military service where this became an integrated system. Now we started with this on 1 January 2018. So it is a rather short time that has passed, but the steps have still been taken, and in the right direction. Thank you for this debate. It is important that there is a guard and a call from Parliament on this issue as well. Thanks for the interpellation!
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-47	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration if he is prepared to work urgently on a national action plan against child abduction and child abduction. In addition, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked what measures the Minister for Justice and Migration considers necessary in such a national action plan in order for no child in Sweden to risk being abducted and married. The interpellation has been handed over to me. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm points to an urgent societal challenge. Honor-related crimes constitute serious violations of human rights and the rights of the child. An action plan can be a way of addressing the problem in a comprehensive way. What is important, however, are concrete measures that minimise the risk of children being taken out of the country and being married away. Such measures are taken by the government on an ongoing basis within the framework of the 10-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women decided in 2016 and the agreement reached by the government parties with the Center Party and the Liberals. Overall, the government has in recent years taken more than 40 initiatives that are particularly relevant in the work against honour-related violence and repression, many of which focus on child and forced marriages. The Government Office is currently preparing proposals for the introduction of a special child marriage offence, a special penalty for crimes of honour, a penalty ban on children who are at risk of being taken abroad for example to enter a marriage, and increased opportunities to take care of and block passports. The ambition is to decide on a proposal in spring 2020. The Government has strengthened the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' work for those in need abroad with a focus on child and forced marriages. The initiative has increased the capacity to deal with this type of case in the foreign administration, as well as the development of working methods and knowledge that are valuable also for prevention efforts in the municipalities. The Government has recently commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to make proposals on how the possibilities to give open interventions without consent to children and young people should be able to increase so that social services can intervene early even when consent is missing and the conditions for forced care are not met. Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan, the Gender Equality Agency, the Swedish Migration Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have been given a joint task to promote increased detection of, among other things, honour-related violence and repression against adults and children in affected client groups. Furthermore, the government has strengthened the county boards' work to prevent and combat honour-related violence and repression, including the county administrative board in Östergötland County's national mission in this area and support for municipal and government-wide resource centres for vulnerable children and adults in several places in the country. The National Centre for Women's Peace at Uppsala University has been tasked with reviewing whether the Kvinnofrid Line can be extended to provide a comprehensive support phone for all victims of violence and oppression in the name of honour. In summary, the Government is carrying out extensive work on these issues, but with the recognition that significant challenges remain.
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-53	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. I have no doubt that the Minister sees that things need to be done, and I think it is positive that the government sees that a national action plan can be a solution. I believe that it is precisely a national action plan that needs to be put in place. Madam President, I would like However, I would have liked to have seen Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson take this debate. For this is something that we, in everyday speech, call a little careless marriage or child marriage, and although it is of course a gender equality issue – I have to say – it is a gender equality issue that is always about serious, systematic crimes. It is crimes that will be repeated for generations if we do nothing about it. These are hideous crimes in which girls who are far too young are forced into a life of detention as property to an older man, who thus has free access to her body. We are talking about detention, Madam President. We are talking about a life without rights and with repeated rapes against children, as well as abuse. We are talking about such a great betrayal from both family and society that it takes the girl to have a totally inhumanly large soul and an incredible heart to forgive. Madam President, I would like By the end of the summer this year, 44 children had been abducted and given up against their will. The figure 44 comes from the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County, where the national support line for honorary repression gained this knowledge through talks. The darker speech is, of course, very large. Although this criminal phenomenon has occurred for many years, the safety net in Sweden, ultimately the municipalities, has no knowledge of how many children it is about. It is not known how many are taken out of the country to be married away, how many are married away within the country or how many are at risk. Even fewer officials know how to deal with the matter when a crime is committed. Preventive work in municipalities and all the contexts where people meet must be strengthened. The municipalities, the school, the social services, the police, the dentists, the health services-- everyone needs to keep statistics on missing children. The authorities also need to work together to follow up the statistics. It should never ever be unclear that we in Sweden do not accept child marriage or forced marriage. No one should doubt that we regard it as rape of children and kidnapping. I want everyone to know it's a crime they're hard on. I respect the fact that the Minister considers this to be something that requires one-off action, and this is required in an emergency situation. However, more than one 73-point programme is needed to be ticked off, because national and joint action is required. However, we need to know how big the problem is, Madam President, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she knows how many children have been abducted and forced to marry so far this year.
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-59	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Ann-Sofie Alm for her speech and for the sensitivity and commitment shown by the Member of Parliament on these issues. On the basis of my mandate as Minister for Gender Equality, I feel that there is security in knowing that we are many, broad in several different parties, who think that these issues are important. It is important for the people who are outside the Parliament House, and that is who we are talking about. They're the ones involved. I would therefore like to start with a great deal of thanks both for raising the issue and for the intervention and commitment. I would also like to say that there is a broad commitment in the government to these issues. It is extremely clear that they are priorities; I also have that security with me in this mission. Morgan Johansson has a great deal of commitment and is also pushing for these issues with force. I think there are many different things we need to do. One thing we need to work actively on is precisely the legislation, which is on the table of the Minister of Justice. During the last parliamentary term, the government launched an investigation, and it is extremely important that we work with the investigations to move forward on these issues. The legislative processes take time. This means that we now have an investigation, Increased protection against honour-related crime, which has made proposals. There are several proposals to strengthen the protection of victims. Some of the proposals concern the strengthening of legislation on child marriage and the fact that the legislation on forced marriage that we have today is not enough. There are also proposals in the investigation on an exit ban and to be able to decide on a sanctioned exit ban for children who are at risk of being taken abroad to be married away. We will make it more difficult for children to be taken out of the country at all. Once they have been taken out of the country, the job of bringing the children back home is much more difficult. That job should also be done, but the very best thing is to prevent them from being taken out at all. The investigation also proposes to block and revoke passports and not to issue passports at all. There are therefore several proposals in the investigation that the government is currently working on. The plan is to return with a proposal in spring 2020. This is an extremely important piece of work. There is also much more we need to do on these issues. I would like to stress what I said in response to the interpellation in my first speech: we have a plan for the work against honour-related violence and repression. It is the national strategy against men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and repression. There is also a specific action programme linked to the strategy. What is important here is that we act on these issues and that we take action both in terms of legislation and in terms of prevention and protection and support for victims. It is also about efforts to increase knowledge in society, not least among professionals, so that we can do a better job for those who live under honorary pressure in Sweden today.
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-67	Madam President, I would like I see the commitment of the Minister. Perhaps you should see my question if the minister knew how many children have been abducted as rhetorical. No one knows for sure how many children this is about. I did not ask the question out of malice or as an attempt to put the Minister on the side of the pot, Madam President. I really want to show that this is a national action plan in which all the authorities work together until the child is found and safe and the guilty have been brought to justice. The action plan needs to include a knowledgeable and clear directive on how to help a vulnerable child who has been systematically abused in the name of honour. How do you help the child back into a normal life? Of course, it is just as important how to prevent it from ever happening. I find it difficult to understand that, in our enlightened era, it is only a few months since we made a decision in this House that all child marriages should be prohibited. It is really incomprehensible that we waited so long for that. Madam President, I would like The Minister says in his reply that I am pointing to an urgent societal challenge. I would like to emphasise that this is not a challenge; it is an urgent social problem that we have to solve. In Sweden, human rights violations are committed. We can't let that happen. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister two questions. Do we want to join with us Moderates, because we have proposals for a joint effort on a national action plan? And if so, when can we see that it is moving on and that it is being put in place?
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-72	Madam President, I would like I would ask for your indulgence that I did not answer the question. Of course I would have. Do I know how many children have been taken out of the country? The answer is no. We don't know that. I fully agree with the interpellant's view that there is a great number of darkness – absolutely. Every child who is taken out of Sweden to be married away is a failure. These children should be at home in Sweden, and they should live in security and freedom. This is an important issue that has been raised, and there is a great number of darkness. I am fully convinced of that. I would also like to make it clear that we will never accept honour-related violence and oppression. Human rights apply to everyone. Children's rights apply to all children in this country. We estimate that 100 000 young people in Sweden live under honorary oppression, so we really have a big job to do. This is one of our most important issues of freedom, security and gender equality. I do not rule out the development of an action plan. The government has developed a specific action plan for the fight against genital mutilation, for example, where we specifically go into the issue to ensure that we move forward and make more efforts for those who are exposed to this. Genital mutilation is a terrible abuse. I do not rule out any more action plans, but I think like this: an action plan is great. But what needs to be borne in mind is that it is not the action plan itself that is important, but that we are doing something. And the government does. I am, of course, as in all matters, open to suggestions. I think that we should always be open to proposals whether they come from our own party or from cooperation parties. It can also be wise proposals that are highlighted by other parties. I think that politicians are right to listen to suggestions and to value them. Our mission in politics is to make a difference to the people who live in this country. It is because of this momentum that I assume we have all entered politics. Therefore, I think that we in Sweden generally do more good in politics if we listen to each other. All the good suggestions on what we need to do to move forward on these issues are, of course, open to listening to. We have a lot of things we need to do. There is one issue that I would like to highlight in addition to the fact that we need to tighten up the legislation, which is important to do with the investigative proposals that we are currently preparing. But I am also very much in favour of this issue, and it is about increasing the possibility of making efforts for children without the consent of the parents. Today we have legislation in Sweden that means that if parents say no to contributions from the social services, social services have a very difficult time doing anything. As a former social-bourgeois councillor in Stockholm City, during the last parliamentary term, I really feel very strongly about this issue. My view is that we cannot allow parents' right to say no to take precedence over children's right to support and help. It is extremely important, not least, for children living under pressure of honour that we can go in and help them as early as possible, even if the conditions for compulsory care are not met. It is our job in this country to strengthen children's rights and to stand on children's side. We really need to do this for the children and young people in Sweden who are living under the pressure of honour today.
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-83	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is very serious that equality is threatened by fundamentalist and traditionalist forces which have never been weakened and which still rule through forced marriage and oppression. It is also about the control of women's and girls' clothes. To turn a blind eye to this is to betray those who are vulnerable. But it is also to betray all our mothers and grandmothers who have existed before us and struggled with both blood and pride to enjoy the freedom and equality that we have today. Swedish authorities need to work actively to counter this inequality and prosecute violations of human rights. 44 children are two school classes, and the number of darkness is so much larger. It's horrible to think about. Madam President, I would like The fact that child marriage crimes are distinguished from forced marriages is good, because when a child marriage is allowed, the crime has already been committed. It is also good to be able to pull out passports when you are worried about child marriage crimes. But, Madam President, before the law can be in a strong position, it requires a thorough, joint effort and joint action from all possible authorities. I look forward to working with the Minister in the future until we have a workable and effective action plan that actually makes a difference for the safety and future of children.
i-b1a175dadf2e0a05-89	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate this exchange of views. I am not ruling out, as I said, that we are drawing up an action plan, but I will not be waiting for an action plan to be drawn up. We are acting and will continue to act, because we need to do much more on these issues. Some of the things we have done are that we have strengthened the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' work to bring children back to Sweden, but as I said before, it is important that they are not taken out of the country at all. We are currently working on establishing common resource centres in several locations around the country where several activities are gathered under one roof in order to provide better support to vulnerable people. We have ensured that there is a national support phone for victims of honour violence. It is the women's peace line that has been given a clear mandate to address women and girls who are victims of honour violence. We work all the time to strengthen the knowledge among professionals. We have come a long way in Sweden over the past decade, but we have a lot to do when it comes to strengthening our knowledge of these issues. We are permanentizing the national competence team against honour crimes. We have also given increased resources to the competence team at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland. There are several different actions going on. A very important thing is also that we have to work with the root of the problem, i.e. the very standards of honor. We need to get to the basic problem. Changing standards and values is difficult and can be time consuming, but it is not impossible. We know that standards and values can be changed. It's something that I think we need to get better at working with. We need to learn more about how to do this. We cannot leave these young people in the lurch, but we must also take the fight against the very root of the problem and combat the standards of honour.
