i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-12	Mr President, I would like to We will discuss the Government's proposal Ethical testing of research – clearer rules and stricter penalties. The Ethical Review Act aims to protect the individual and respect for human dignity in research. The law requires that certain research relating to humans must first have been approved in an ethical review before it can be carried out. The changes also include scientific studies by observation in the definition of research if the work or studies are done to acquire new knowledge. When several research leaders participate in one and the same research project, they must instruct one of them to apply for ethical review of the project on behalf of all and then notify the others of the decision. The Board of Appeal for Ethics Review shall supervise compliance with the Ethics Review Act, increase criminal liability and strengthen penalties for violations of the Ethics Review Act. This is important because research under Section 6, first paragraph, of the Ethics Review Act may only be carried out if it has been approved during an ethical review. If you break this, it should of course be felt. Those amendments shall take effect on 1 January 2020. Mr President, I would like to The whole proposal is about strengthening confidence in research and increasing the safety of patients who are to participate in research. It is an activity that is extremely important for the progress of our difficult societal challenges. Research must take time. We politicians must also learn not to call for rapid results but rather to call for the right results. I am pleased that a united committee is behind this proposal. It is important that there is a long-term perspective in research policy and that everyone knows that the rules of the game apply for many years to come. It also creates security. With this bill, we show that we do not accept cheating and that no human being should ever be used as someone else's experiment. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-19	Mr President, I would like to As we all know, research is important for the development and prosperity of a country. Sweden has a good reputation for research. We have great success. For example, everyone knows about the Nobel Prizes, which will soon be awarded. It is something that concerns the whole world, and many progress has been made. There is a lot of vital research going on all the time. This morning I attended a breakfast meeting with the Heart-Lung Fund, where it was told that there are currently 200 ongoing projects funded by the Fund. They're all about cardiac arrest and sudden death. 10,000 people a year experience sudden cardiac arrest, and 90 percent of them die. This compares with the death of 100 people due to fire or the death of 300 people in traffic. It is therefore a major area of research. Research is therefore needed to develop more solutions and reduce the number of deaths. This exciting research shows, for example, that survival before entering the hospital is an important factor. Drones are being used to get heart-starters there, and more has been learned about cooling the brain to survive a cardiac arrest and even feel good after the survivor. It is important that all research undergoes an ethical review, just as the previous speaker said – this in order to protect participants from being affected by research. Research should do good and not hurt. I myself have done research in the area of stroke, and I know that it is difficult to do an ethical review. But I also know that it is necessary to get good research. One should be able to trust the researcher, one should be able to trust that patients are not affected and one should be able to trust that the research does good. The changes will include observation of patients or informants. There will therefore be a broadening of who should be included in the ethical review, which I think is important. It is also good that the maximum penalty will be increased. In the past, the sentence was six months' imprisonment unless an appeal was filed with the Ethical Review Board or in the event of gross negligence. Now the maximum sentence is two years. This speaks of the importance of proper ethical review and the protection of those involved in research. I am also in favour of the student exemption, which means that research carried out by students does not need to be ethically tested. This is to facilitate research at a slightly lower level. Students still do not need to apply for ethical review. I am very pleased with this report, and the Moderates are in favour of a stricter law and the extension of the ethical review of human research. I support the proposal in the report.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-30	Mr President, I would like to As we have heard earlier in the debate, not least in the opening speech, the issue is that we need to make changes to the law on the ethical review of human research. There is a need for some clarification, such as the boundaries between what is clinical research and what is medical care, which actors are referred to in the law and what responsibility those actors have. Here we also add to the research heads, who are usually higher education institutions, as responsible actors. The penalties also need to be tightened when the rules on ethical review are being violated. Today, the penalties are relatively mild. You can get a maximum of six months in prison, which is low. As we know, violating ethical testing in medical research can have major consequences for those affected. Therefore, it is reasonable to increase the level of penalties so that the maximum sentence is two years. It will also allow for a more nuanced scale of penalties where the seriousness of the crime can be taken into account in a more flexible way. The issue is closely linked to cheating and unfair practices in research, but also to public confidence in research, in particular medical research and medical care. As a patient, you should be able to be confident that new methods in healthcare are safe. When you participate in a research study and become a research person, as it is called in the legal text, it should be about serious research that has gone through an ethical review, if it is called for, and which is not carried out by rogue actors. It is therefore important that we get these clarifications and the tightening up of legislation in place. We should be clear that you should be able to trust Swedish healthcare, even when it moves in the research front and it can be about using new methods in healthcare. One might think that the Macchiarini scandal could not have happened. The Macchiarini scandal has, of course, been a driving force for this matter, for the investigation that the government set up directly in 2016 and for the recent bill that forms the basis of this case. That event, the Macchiarini scandal, is an anomaly in a safe and secure research community. The reasonable thing is that collegial control with internal reviews and evaluations, what we call peer review, should work. It is one of the foundations of free research. The state should not really interfere too much. But when it comes to research on people, the ethical aspects are so important that we need such a regulatory framework with a high scale of penalties. Mr President, I would like to In this House, in the past, late this spring, we have dealt with a matter of promoting good practice and dealing with misconduct in research. It was a broader grant on this matter; it was research in general, not just clinical research. However, the decision we took last spring gives us a new legislation, a new authority function in the form of a committee authority and a control apparatus to curb research fraud and better deal with such matters. The report we are debating today is, in many ways, a continuation of that work. The Government and the Riksdag show that we take research issues very seriously. Confidence in research is high in Sweden and will continue to be so. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that a united committee and a united parliament support the proposal in the report and the government proposal. I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-U5GXYqfrBbd1BFjoShY2x1	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Per Bolund, Minister Peter Eriksson, Minister for Education Anna Ekström and Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-41	Madam President, I would like The year 2019 is coming to an end, and for Skåne we can see that this year has been dominated by two things in particular: gang crime and electricity shortages. It does not sound too good that this is happening in one of the most modern countries in the world. The government has for a long time claimed that there is no shortage of electricity in Skåne. Despite this view, the problem has now been resolved in the short term. In the longer term, we know that our electricity needs throughout Sweden will increase by 60 percent to 2045. The transition from fossil to electricity is one of society's biggest challenges. In order to have a climate-smart electricity supply, the IPCC calls for a drastic expansion of nuclear power. In Sweden, we are doing the opposite and we are closing down our nuclear power plants despite the fact that this is damaging the climate. What is the Government's view that, according to the Institute of Economic Development, emissions in the EU will increase when we close Ringhals 1 and 2?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-44	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Louise Meijer for noting that the government has acted forcefully in relation to the so-called electricity shortage and, in fact, is now ensuring that we have an electricity supply that meets the challenges we have. More and more people need electricity, and we need to have a secure electricity supply because that is the basis for us to have a functioning society and a functioning economy. That is also why the government has ensured that we now actually have the capacity to cope with the peaks of power. In the long term, we need to ensure that we build a sustainable energy and electricity generation system. Therefore, we are pleased that only after the energy agreement has seen SEK 85 billion are we invested in Swedish wind power. Wind power is now increasing sharply in Sweden and within just a few years will account for one third of the electricity we use. This is a much greater increase in electricity generation than is produced by the reactors that are now being decommissioned because they are not profitable. The IPCC has not told countries which energy system to build their energy mix on, but it is up to the countries themselves. In Sweden, we have set ourselves the goal of having a 100% renewable electricity generation system.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-47	Madam President, I would like One can divide the interpretation, but the fact is that all IPCC scenarios contain nuclear power. Without nuclear power, the conversion to electricity becomes an equation that doesn't make sense. Roughly speaking, EU emissions will increase by 8 million tonnes by the middle of the century if Ringhals 1 and 2 are closed as planned. Eight million tons!
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-49	Madam President, I would like It's always a little dangerous to speak very safely based on forecasts. Forecasts have proven to be wrong before. I do not think that many people could have predicted the huge investment wave that has now gone over Sweden with such large investments that have taken place in renewable electricity production. I believe that many could not even have imagined it a few years ago. Let us be pleased with the development we are now seeing when we have a very rapid expansion of energy and electricity production. That is something that I am convinced will lead to a stable electricity supply in Sweden in the future.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-52	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Per Bolund and is of a general political nature. It concerns the second subject mentioned by Louise Meijer before, namely gang crime. Few have missed the interview with the Prime Minister that was shown this weekend. The Prime Minister is not here now, and I do not expect a review from the Government. M an I was going to read out a few lines from an open letter to the Prime Minister who is one of many reactions that have come. Among other things, it says: During my childhood in Rinkeby I never experienced any bombings, no car fires, no shootings and no group or assault rapes. A little further down in the same letter it says: Such were not us – regardless of unemployment or any lack of leisure activities or interests. My question is this: Was it the government's opinion expressed in this interview that segregation, exclusion and unemployment are responsible for the serious crime that we have seen spreading in recent times and which has meant that bestial acts have been committed? Or could there be something else behind it, and could there be a link with the irresponsible migration policy that has been pursued?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-56	Madam President, I would like First of all, let us state that gang crime is an extremely serious phenomenon in our society and a threat to our society in the long term. That is why the government is acting so strongly and, together with the Swedish authorities, is putting in a new gear in the fight against crime. We now have a special initiative from the police where you go in with full power. This is also matched by the government as we are now taking major steps forward to give our law enforcement authorities the tools they need but also act not only with stricter penalties and more police officers but also with prevention efforts. My answer to Paula Bieler's question is that I think it is far too easy to try to find one single reason for this problem. I think we need to look much wider at it than that. Let us remember that we had problems with gang crime in society much earlier than that, for example with the motorcycle gangs who also committed major and serious crimes in society. Making it as simple as saying that this is only due to migration, I think it is irresponsible.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-59	Madam President, I would like Now that's not really what I said. What I said was that there may be more causes than class differences and unemployment, which have been the main reasons for this. Many of the efforts that are being made are also intended to deal with the specific problem. That is why I intend to focus on this. If these are the factors that one sees as the cause of the problems, I wonder: Can one at least admit that an increase in Sweden's population by 20 per cent in a few decades, combined with the policy that has been implemented in general with various grants that are awarded and so on, has affected how segregation has been expanded and that there is therefore a link?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-60	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that there is any doubt that a rapidly growing population puts pressure on a society and leads to challenges that we need to address. But I am also convinced that a society that is broader and where people have different backgrounds in the end also becomes a better society. Something that we often forget when we talk about migration – I know that the Swedish Democrats are very happy to just look at problems and disadvantages – is that Sweden would not work without the people who have come here and who go to work every day and ensure that our social functions such as healthcare and justice are actually maintained. Without them, Sweden would not work.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-63	Madam President, I would like With the Minister for Housing, I would like to raise a question which seems timeless and unfortunately is particularly topical today. The situation in the housing market is hardly better now than it was in the 60s and 70s when people moved to where the jobs were, in the big cities, from the countryside. People also moved here as labour immigrants from Finland, Yugoslavia and other countries. Suppose Per Bolund meets a young couple who ask for advice. I suppose that happens in real life, too. They want to get married, but this is the 21st century, so maybe it's moving in together they're going to do. They're not rich. What advice does the Minister of Housing give them?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-66	Madam President, I would like I'm the Minister of Housing, but I don't have any housing to distribute to people, which I think we should all be happy about. I am also not in the advisory business, so I think I am refraining from giving advice to individuals. I know that many people in our society have a very difficult situation. Not only are young people involved, but at many other times in life people can experience a major problem with housing that works. I have great respect for this, and that is also why I work intensively and hard with all the tools and tools I have to find solutions. However, this is a situation that has been created by the fact that we have been building far too little for far too long. This is also a challenge that does not have a quick solution and where answers cannot be delivered to all those who are currently affected by the housing shortage. We need to work long-term to find a solution, and we all need to share responsibility. The municipalities have housing responsibility, but we have the task of giving them the tools to provide housing for the entire population. That's where I work tirelessly.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-69	Madam President, I would like The Government Bolund could have solved the situation in the same way as Tage Erlander did when Lars Orup asked him the question before the 1966 municipal elections, in the now legendary television broadcast with the three o's. Erlander replied: They may well stand in the housing queue. With housing ministers from the Green Party for more than five years, the situation has become worse, especially for young people who are not rich but want to own their homes. What does Per Bolund intend to do to make it easier for the young couple? What solutions does he see, in addition to getting in line for a tenancy?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-71	Madam President, I would like First of all, let us stick to reality and its appearance. Sometimes myths circulate that young people could not get loans in society at all today. This is not true. If you look at the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority's mortgage survey, you can see that the proportion of young borrowers has not fallen at all during the last term of office. An equal proportion of young people are taking out loans today. On the other hand, young people borrow a little less and buy a little cheaper housing. This reduces risks in their own economy, while also reducing debt and risks in the national economy.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-73	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Eneroth. The railway is the climate smartest way to travel and transport goods, and we have a climate emergency. Emissions from transport are increasing when they really need to be reduced. Train travel is increasing, happily enough, and companies want to transport goods by train. Yet many of the railway tracks that remain in Sweden today – many have unfortunately already been demolished – have been actively left to their fate and are not maintained. The Transport Administration doesn't seem to want to fix the tracks. There are many examples in the country, such as Lysekilsbanan, Bohusbanan and Karlsborgsbanan.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-76	Madam President, I would like I very much share the view that more rail is needed. If we are to meet climate targets and our commitments under the Paris Agreement, we need to find more and better ways to travel climate smart. The Swedish people want to go more trains. Swedish companies want to send more goods by train. That is why we are making the biggest railway effort in modern times. This is what the national plan is about: 700 billion in infrastructure investments. Among other things, the Left Party was involved in designing it. We made clear priorities: Norrbotniabanan, South East Link, Ostlinken. Then we also invest in parts of the rail system that are less frequent, often for reasons of economic policy or because it can facilitate passenger traffic. But we take it in turn, and we are now making the biggest maintenance efforts and new investments ever. It's crowded on the tracks, and more people want to ride trains. We must continue to develop the Swedish railways, and we do so with the decisions we have taken today.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-80	Madam President, I would like It is great that we invest in the railway, but still stand several railway routes and fall apart. The Finnish Transport Agency actively refrains from maintaining, which increases the cost of repairing these railways. These are routes where many might want to travel — commuter railings and freight routes. How do you view the courses that are actively ignored, Tomas Eneroth?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-81	Madam President, I would like The needs are of course very great because it was underinvested in Swedish railway for a long time. We had a government that did not invest and actively opposed it. We have reversed this trend and are now investing in the entire Swedish rail system. But we can't cover all the needs at the same time, and then in western Sweden we have prioritised Gothenburg – Borås and Västrastambanan, in the same way as other parts of Sweden have prioritised important paths. However, we are also making important efforts on the less-trafficked rail network, and I hope that we can continue to do so.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-83	Madam President, I would like There are 238 000 young people who involuntarily live at home, according to a survey recently reported by the Tenants' Association. Many of these people want to buy their first home but find it difficult today, with the credit restrictions that feel like a big brake block for those young people who want to start their housing career. I am pleased to read that the Minister for Housing has the same view as we Christian Democrats on the need for the state to take greater responsibility in terms of young people's ability to enter the market for owned housing. We Christian Democrats have proposed a starting loan provided by the state. In Dagens Nyheter on 6 October, the Minister for Housing expresses similar views and thoughts. So my simple question to the Minister for Housing is: when does the Minister for Housing introduce a government-friendly housing loan for young people, on which we agree?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-86	Madam President, I would like Many young people have a difficult situation in the housing market. This is not something new, but it has unfortunately been so for a long time. But we have a responsibility to do everything we can to make it easier for young people to start their adult life. We believe that many different measures are needed, not least investment aid, which now leads to many new rental apartments with reasonable rents, which also young people can afford to ask for. It is worth remembering that in every year of red - green government, more has been built than in any single year before with moderate government. But, in my opinion, as Minister for Housing, we need to look broadly at more measures, such as how we can lower the thresholds for young people in order to enter also the market for owned housing. I am running this proposal as an environmental party, but there is also the possibility of such discussions as we are now discussing the overall conditions for the housing market. We will also have tax calls that should be clearly focused on getting a well-functioning housing market.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-89	Madam President, I would like We can discuss a lot about credit restrictions and who has done wrong or right. But in this case we share the same view, that is to say that we must somehow ensure that young people have the opportunity to buy their first home. We seem to agree that the state should take greater responsibility. I find it strange that the Minister for Housing resists this idea by saying that he is speaking as an environmental party. This environmental party is also a minister of housing and has the opportunity to promote and develop such measures. When is this coming?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-91	Madam President, I would like Although I am a minister of housing, I am also a party politician and am therefore, of course, able to speak on behalf of the party as well. I know that former housing ministers have done so too. But of course I am eager and want to carry out more reforms. I am therefore pleased that we now have a more active housing policy than we have had in many years. It is necessary for us to be able to solve the problems. We also have the opportunity to work together in the January agreement constellation and to find new ways forward, and I will bring in the Green Party's proposals there.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-93	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. A couple of months ago, I noticed the problem of students who have reading and writing difficulties, dyslexia or dyscalculation not being allowed to take the aids with them when writing the national exams. Finally, if I have followed this question politically, there was a recent ruling in the Örebro District Court stating that a student in grade 6 has been discriminated against on the grounds that he was not allowed to bring aids into the national tests, which he normally had to do in the other regular education. Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister for Education what conclusions she draws from this important judgment and how it can affect the work of the government.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-95	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for the question! Roger Haddad and I agree that the school should really support all students to develop as far as possible and that those students who need different forms of adaptations and special support should also get it. We also agree that in some cases adaptations are needed when students write national exams. The difficult question here is what the adjustments should be like in cases where what the national tests are to test is exactly what the adaptations refer to. This question has now been examined by several district courts. In one case, the court has followed the line described by Roger Haddad, but there are also other district court judgments and decisions by authorities. I assume that the National Agency for Education, which is the authority responsible for the design of the national tests, follows the judges closely and also follows the case law that is being developed.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-97	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. The Special Educational School Authority has had one view on this important issue, and the National Agency for Education has had another. Both of these school authorities fall directly under the Government, and I would like us to really resolve this situation. It is unreasonable that students who happen to have dyslexia, reading and writing difficulties are not entitled to bring basic aids. Just over a month ago, the government extended a hand. I now reach back one hand and ask: When can we start talks on this issue?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-99	Madam President, I would like The responsibility for designing the national tests and the instructions for them lies with the Swedish National Board of Education. I assume that the Swedish National Agency for Education is following the case law that is now being developed. Then, like the Riksdag, I am prevented from speaking in such a way that I can influence ongoing court cases. However, I am following this issue very closely. Like Roger Haddad, I am very keen that the students in Sweden should be able to demonstrate their skills and knowledge in a good way and also that they should be able to get the support that possible action programmes can bring.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-102	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Education about the school, which, since the Bildt government implemented the free school reform in the 1990s, has become a market that attracts various types of rogue actors. Perhaps the most serious are the examples of a person who has conducted school activities and at the same time has been judged by the Swedish Security Service to be a threat to Sweden's security. Most recently, it was reported that pupils who are trained during school hours to function as school ambassadors to promote free schools. How does the Minister view the existence of this in Swedish schools, and what does the Minister intend to do about it?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-104	Madam President, I would like In our school there should be a focus on students' knowledge and students' education. This is what should guide those who get the trust of society to conduct school. In the current case that Linus Sköld addresses – the latest case, where pupils in school-time are taught to promote their school – I think the school leaders should be careful. One should think carefully before expecting students to perform assignments to speak well for a school that is actually in a position of power toward them. The school has the right to grade and has a huge influence on how a large part of the student's waking time appears. I'm very worried about a school that develops in such a way that incentives other than just striving for the students' knowledge assert themselves. I assume that Sweden's school leaders follow the school team we have, which clearly says that it is the students' knowledge and education that should be at the centre.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-106	Madam President, I would like There are, inter alia, headlines showing the problems of the market system and, in particular, the incentives to profit at school. Some examples from the past few years have been about how students are selected, about the size of the profit distribution and about joy certificates that drive grade inflation. Now that the January agreement stipulates that there will be no profit ban, what other measures does the Minister consider possible for us to have a well-functioning system?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-107	Madam President, I would like There is much we can do together, not least here in the Swedish Parliament, to ensure that schools get the best possible conditions. I am thinking of what is about selection for training courses. There we have an investigation that is now ongoing and that looks at how schools should make selection. Personally, I think queue time as a selection instrument is very segregating and unfair. We also have the rules on the planning and dimensioning of upper secondary education and, not least, how school money is constructed, which is also the subject of investigation. There's a lot we can do together.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-109	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. We are facing a major climate challenge. The UN Panel on Climate Change clearly demonstrates the need to act and to do so now. Next Friday, young people are demonstrating all over the planet for the Madrid climate summit, and the same day it is ironically Black Friday. A very important change of system needed to address the climate challenge is moving from a linear to a circular economy. I think many of us agree on that. It is about designing products that are produced resource-efficiently, last longer and can be repaired, reused and recycled – to enable sustainable consumption, simply. Then it is important to have a product passport. Now I come to my questions: What do you think, Per Bolund, that product passports should contain? What effect do you think product passports will have?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-112	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amanda Palmstierna, for important questions! It is unwieldy that if we are to meet environmental objectives, we must ensure that our consumption is more sustainable. There it is gratifying that we can notice a great deal of commitment by Sweden's consumers to be part of the solution. But then we, as consumers, must also have access to the information we need to make informed decisions and reduce our footprint on the planet. We in the Green Party and in the January Contract Parties believe that product passports are an important way forward. In the January agreement, we have agreed to set up a study to develop proposals on how a product passport for different products sold can be designed. It should include what the product contains – components, chemicals, raw materials and so on – what origin it has and how it is developed. In addition, it shall include how the product can be recycled once it is used out, so that it returns to a circular economy or is taken care of in a sustainable manner.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-114	Madam President, I would like I am also interested in what effect you, Per Bolund, think this will have on the market, both for producers and for consumers, and whether there are other measures in this area.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-115	Madam President, I would like The government's palette is broad in terms of achieving more sustainable consumption, and it is based on the sustainable consumption strategy developed last term of office. There's information, but it's far from the only thing. It is also a question of creating economic conditions. It should be profitable to choose the most sustainable. There we will introduce what we call a hyber credit, which radically lowers the cost here you rent instead of buying, when you buy used instead of new and when you repair instead of just throwing away. We need to work with many different tools to achieve sustainable consumption.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-117	Madam President, I would like Just a month ago, Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth spoke in an interview in Dagens Industri, where he aired his thoughts about a frontloading of the closure of Bromma. Bromma is a very important airport, especially for those of us who do not live in the large towns. From Bromma you can reach 17 destinations, and there is currently modernisation. One of these destinations is Ronneby in Blekinge, which I represent. It is the southern neighbour of the state council's own county of Kronoberg. I therefore assume that the Government is well aware of the infrastructure situation that we have in south-eastern Sweden, which is of course highly problematic. For us, aviation and Bromma airport are extremely important, both for business and for defence. Last time this issue was raised, it triggered a tsunami of protests across the country and across party boundaries. Is the Government aware of the uncertainties of the airing of thoughts that these have as an effect?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-120	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annicka Engblom, for the question! I am well aware that there has always been a stigmatised and attentive debate not only on aviation in general but especially on Bromma airport. This is one of the reasons why there have been several investigations into the future of Bromma airport. There is an agreement that extends until 2038. It is therefore a good way forward that Bromma would end her business. It is clear that part of the government's work on the aviation strategy and not least in the Arlanda Council has been a discussion on this. The Stockholm region, in particular, has proposed that Bromma airport could be decommissioned and domestic air transport at Arlanda Airport in order to create the conditions for housing construction in Stockholm's immediate area. In this way you could also have more climate-smart trips to Arlanda Airport. But it is not now up to us to make any decisions about Bromma's future, but it is just a discussion about how the development can be in the future.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-124	Madam President, I would like In September this year, we were courted by representatives from several companies in the railway industry who work as subcontractors mainly for Infranord, NRC and Strukton. Companies had been told that they would stop their jobs and go home, preferably during the day. They did not find out why, but after a few weeks it was clear that the reason was that the Swedish Transport Administration had a heavily forecasted deficit of approximately SEK 700 million for railway maintenance. Because of poor management and control, more money had been spent than the budget allowed. The consequence of this has now been that about 420, i.e. just over 50 percent, of all railway technicians employed by the subcontractors have been announced. This is nothing but a scandal. It is for me a mystery how Swedish media have been able to miss this. It is also a mystery why the Minister for Infrastructure and the Government have chosen not to act.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-128	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Jönsson, for the question! We've acted. In fact, last week we were able to report a commission to Trafikverket to develop a long-term plan for railway maintenance together with maintenance companies and train operators. The long-term view is precisely so that we do not end up at the stages where there is a mismatch in the supply of skills, where resources are not used as optimally as possible. This is done in the guise of a 47 % increase in rail maintenance. It's the biggest ever. We need to renovate, repair and upgrade the Swedish rail system after years of underinvestment. We are doing the work that should have been done earlier. We repair and renovate. We make sure that the rail system can function better. And Trafikverket is now tasked with developing a long-term plan for maintenance so that we do not have problems with the supply of the underlying contracts that exist. There has never been as much resources as now for railway maintenance. This should mean that we continue to have good efforts in the field of rail maintenance in the future.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-131	Madam President, I would like I turn to the Minister for Education and I return to a question about the opportunities for intellectually disabled people to study after a certain age. The Minister and I have previously agreed that this is a very important issue. The Komvux investigation, which was supplemented by an announcement, has now presented a proposal. People with intellectual disabilities are said to be given increased opportunities for further education after såvvux. Then one might wonder about what the proposal says: that the employer should be able to pay for the training. The Minister can't say that's enough, can he? A great deal more opportunities are needed. It is about student loans and how to handle activity support and the like.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-135	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Zander, not only for the question but also for the great commitment of Solveig Zander and the Center Party to this! I now find myself in a rather tricky position as a minister of state. It's an investigation that Solveig Zander refers to. It is an investigation that I have commissioned and which, thanks to Parliament's intervention, has actually become, I think, even better and made more proposals than it had done with the original directives. I am very grateful to the Riksdag for that. Unfortunately, however, I cannot anticipate our consideration of the investigation's proposals. They're on the government table right now. We've received a lot of referrals on the investigation. Unfortunately, I will be so boring that I will come back to Parliament and tell you about the content when I have a legislative referral or a bill. But I can assure Mr Zander that this issue is very close to my heart. I am very grateful to Christina Örnebjär, Per Lodenius and Caroline Helmersson Olsson from the Liberals, the Center Party and the Social Democrats, who have pushed this issue in such a way that it can actually take steps forward.
i-CbHXUATUPzheRxqM5HtsnV	Madam President, I would like Last week, I and Minister Eriksson attended the conference ICPD25 in Nairobi, the sequel to the Population and Development Conference in Cairo in 1994, where 179 governments adopted an action programme to strengthen women's and girls' rights. Much has happened, but we have not reached the targets, and now some countries are going backwards. We, about 7 000 participants, agreed on what is required, including universal access to sexual and reproductive health and rights, an end to gender-based violence and female genital mutilation and, not least, more resources. Thanks to Sweden's increased BNI, the amount of money for the SRHR has increased, but given that some regimes oppose the SRHR, a country that claims to have a feminist foreign policy should want to do more. That is why we in the Left Party have been demanding for many years that the 6-7 per cent of the aid provided to the SRHR be increased to 10 per cent. How does Minister Eriksson feel about this?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-141	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I was also at the conference in Nairobi. The exciting and positive thing was that there is a strong and broad majority in the world today in order for women's and girls' sexual and reproductive rights to continue to play a strong role, despite the fact that a number of countries with, among other things, the United States at the forefront are trying to limit this. We are working as leaders in the world, I would say, with a feminist foreign policy that also includes aid. This means that we are spending more than others, not only the 6% to 7% that go directly there, but also the money that we are giving in support through UN organisations and other multilateral bodies. Overall, a very large part of Swedish aid is directed towards gender equality and issues related to SRHR.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-144	Madam President, I would like In a debate article, the Minister of Education writes about security threats and violations of the school law linked to some Muslim schools. The Christian Democrats agree that anyone who is not suitable should not be allowed to start and run a school. It should be easier to close schools with major shortcomings. But the government must separate the chaff from the wheat. The aim is not achieved by closing down non-confessional schools. Schools that fertilize religious extremism can act under neutral appearance. Give the School Inspectorate an increased opportunity to make unannounced inspections, so that school leaders do not have time to clean up what violates the school law. It would be more effective in accessing schools that make Swedish schools a free zone for extremism and radicalisation. Is the Minister prepared to nuance his generalizing moves, which affect decent secular schools, when the problem is really different?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-147	Madam President, I would like The issue raised by Gudrun Brunegård is very serious. Over a long period of years we have had far too lax rules as to who is allowed to run free schools. Gudrun Brunegård is right on one point. This is about the rules for starting free schools at all. It is not limited to what is sometimes called religious free schools. At the government's initiative, the parliament has tightened the requirements for those who are going to start schools, and that also matters retroactively. It is good that this was decided a year ago in the Swedish Parliament. We have also, on the government side, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, set up an investigation to give the Swedish School Inspectorate even tougher tools to ensure that schools follow their mission. Gudrun Brunegård is absolutely right that there are schools that are good and that there are schools that are bad. But on one point Gudrun Brunegård is wrong. There are no proposals to close religious free schools. The proposals we are working on are about tightening up the rules and ensuring that we put an end to the start-up of religious free schools.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-151	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Per Bolund. Investment support for rental apartments has been a great success. It is therefore gratifying that we are now getting support back after M, KD and SD irresponsibly abolished it in last year's budget. I myself come from Uppsala. There it is built very much, while the demand is also very large. Now I know that many of the developers are excited to get started building rentals with lower rents.
i-Xci5HmfuchSEMVP4Tg27E3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Inga-Lill-Lill Sjöblom, for the question! Investment aid has been a great success. This is not least noticeable when SKL evaluates it and shows that it really has a major effect on housing construction. When asked, six out of ten developers say that you should not have started building in the way you have done now. Either you wouldn't have built at all or you would have built much fewer or more expensive apartments. So this has really affected the housing market, and so far 26 000 apartments have come out with investment support, a fairly large proportion of which are student housing. Now, in connection with our budget, we have already ensured that there is money for those who have applied but have not been able to get money before so that they can start their projects. But we will also come out in the near future with new conditions for future investors who want to apply for investment aid. We can do this in broad agreement, all four parties that are behind the January agreement. Our hope is that we will be able to do so so that all those who are now eager to get started with their projects can do so as soon as possible.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-158	Madam President, I would like Afghanistan is the country to which we are sending the most bilateral aid, and we have seen over time that gender equality is increasing there. But now it's going the wrong way. Now we can read in Expressen that the Taliban charge the so-called "ushr" – 10%, i.e. a tenth – to activities that take place in their area. This means that our tax money in the form of aid may have landed in the wrong pockets as a so-called tax to the Taliban.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-162	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I saw the article in Expressen. However, there was no direct support for Swedish aid going to Taliban, but it was someone who expressed something very general. That would have been for the Swedish Afghanistan Committee. It is true that the Swedish Afghanistan Committee has been in the country for decades, since the 1980s, and is one of the largest employers in the whole country. It has long experience and also operates in areas where the Taliban operate, control and control the area. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee has itself gone out saying that it pays no tax at all to the Taliban and that this is incorrect information.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-165	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. Last Sunday we could see and hear Prime Minister Stefan Löfven interviewed in Agenda about the alarming gang crime. Once again, we got proof of how paralysed the government appears and that the understanding of the background to shootings and blasts seems completely nonexistent in the Prime Minister. Once again, the mantra was repeated, and we saw it not coming. The government's job is to be proactive and not reactive. Today, the government is acting in many ways on the basis of Parliament's announcements. These have increased markedly. Today there are about 160 untreated ones. One example is the abolition of penalty rebates for persons between 18 and 21 years of age, a measure requested by, among other things, the police, which was made in an announcement already at the Parliamentary Session 2016/ 17. It has now been three years, and one wonders why nothing is happening in the matter. Why does it always take so long to implement things for this government? What is the plan to execute this and all other announcements?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-169	Madam President, I would like I do not, of course, agree with Mr Bo Broman's point of view, but on the contrary I say that this government takes the problems very seriously and also works both long-term and preventively. We have worked consistently for a long time to provide our law enforcement authorities with the tools they need. We have a long-term plan to have 10,000 more police employees in the next few years. So far, we have carried out over 50 penalties precisely to ensure that those who commit criminal acts can actually be put in prison, where they belong. However, we are far from finished, but we are still working on it. The very issue highlighted by Mr Broman was also included in the government's 34-point programme to combat gang crime. It will be dealt with as the other points, that is, we will carry out a thorough investigation. We do not rush through decisions that run the risk of being poorly implemented, but we want a solid basis for ensuring that the reforms we are implementing actually work and can produce the effects and the concrete results that we need in order to combat gang crime.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-172	Madam President, I would like Emissions from the transport sector are increasing at a time when they need to be significantly reduced. We are in a climate crisis. Renewable fuels such as ethanol, biodiesel and biogas are an important part of the Swedish strategy to reduce our emissions and are therefore exempt from tax in Sweden. Our public transport is 90 percent powered by renewable fuels. Thousands of private motorists and companies have vehicles that run on biodiesel, ethanol or biogas. Now the EU wants to remove our tax exemption for biofuels. It would be absolutely devastating for public transport and for all thousands of motorists who want to make a contribution to the environment. Emissions would increase by hundreds of thousands of tonnes each year.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-175	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for a very important question! This is a tax issue at the Ministry of Finance. I'm the Deputy Minister of Finance, so I'll be happy to take that question. This is indeed an urgent area. The introduction of biofuels has been one of many important efforts to reduce the climate impact of our transport. We do so in several ways, partly through interference where we now have the change of fuel where we are gradually increasing the incorporation of biofuels in petrol and diesel, partly through the pure biofuels that have been important not least in public transport but also in private car use. From the Swedish side there is a broad political consensus that this is an important tool, and we want to continue to be able to use biofuels that have reasonable tax conditions. That is also the line that we are pursuing very clearly towards the European level, where we are also trying to bring together other EU countries who see that this is a prerequisite for achieving both national climate targets and the European Union's climate targets. So we are going to push this issue hard and stubbornly in the future.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-179	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a question to Minister Bolund on money laundering, that is to say, to make money derived from illegal trade, tax evasion or corruption appear to be legal money. Money laundering is both a crime in itself and something committed to conceal the crimes from which the money comes. These are crimes that exploit people and undermine welfare and trust. There was news yesterday about money laundering, and more recently, several examples of money laundering have been found. This is, of course, very serious. Combating money laundering requires constant review of regulations and powers, and the government has made a number of efforts in recent years. But even the criminals are developing their methods. My question is whether Minister Bolund considers that the tightening up that has been done is sufficient or whether we can expect the government to come up with further efforts to combat money laundering.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-183	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Wiechel, for a very important question! Of course, the financial system must work to stop criminal organisations trying to launder money, which are then used to finance criminal activities that make our whole society more uncertain. This also applies, of course, to the financing of terrorism, which is a problem at international level. Here we need to act, both from the banks' side and, of course, from us in the government and parliament. We have also acted. We have put forward a dozen different proposals with far-reaching regulatory changes, in which we have, among other things, increased the fines considerably so that it can now be a billion for the bank that is not doing its money laundering work. But we continue consistently. Only today, at the government meeting, we decided that we should now improve the information to law enforcement authorities about the accounts and treasurers where people have their fortunes so that these authorities will know and be able to act when it is criminals who are trying to use those roads to launder money. This should not be possible in Sweden.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-188	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask a question about Sweden's security, so I have to turn to Minister Per Bolund. Last Friday we received documentation from the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration in connection with the Swedish Defence Committee's report. Now we are discussing exactly what these elements mean. In fact, in recent years there have been a number of significant investments in Sweden's defence with the help of other parties. The Moderates have been involved in this. I can reveal so much, Madam President, that the government side never wanted more money than we moderates, but always less. My question is how the government views the further process. How do you intend to negotiate the important defence decision that needs to be taken in 2020 and take effect by 1 January 2021? I think it is important to try to reach broad agreement. Then it is important that the government considers how to reach broad agreement on the substance and how to achieve broad consensus in form.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-193	Madam President, I would like It is important that we try to reach as broad a consensus as possible on issues relating to Sweden's security. That is why I am pleased that we have had a defence committee that has worked for and achieved quite broad political consensus. We have also decided, in the budget that has been put on the table of Parliament, to increase the resources for defence considerably, and it is additions that will greatly increase military capabilities. The parties included in the Defence Committee will now be informed of the content of the defence authorities' analyses. We will then begin work on developing a defence policy bill that will be put on Parliament's table by autumn 2020. The aim of this work is to achieve as broad a consensus as possible and to have broad parliamentary support behind the bill.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-196	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. There is one thing that I want as a Member of Parliament from Haparanda and Norrbotten and many Haparandas and Norrbottens with me, and that is to be able to travel by train from Haparanda – preferably across the border to Finland. This is important not least with regard to Nordic cooperation, export issues, the tourism industry and so on. I have a dream, and it is that, as we did a hundred years ago, we can cross the border by train even now. My question to the Minister is whether he shares that vision and that dream and what he has to say about the railway expansion in northern Sweden.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-199	Madam President, I would like I think we have the same dreams, that is to be able to develop the opportunity to travel climate smart and get to family and friends or work in Sweden without making a big impact on the climate. That is why we are making the biggest railway effort in modern times. As a small-timer, I long to be able to go not least on the Norrbotnia Line. These are important initiatives we are now making in northern Sweden, not least on the railways. It is Norrbotniabanan, Ostkustbanan and Malmbanan. As far as transport is concerned, I share that vision. We need to develop traffic along the Botanical Corridor. One of the reasons why we broadened the scope for applying for the EU's specific infrastructure funds also to northern Sweden was precisely this. This is something that we are implementing now during our government period: developed and expanded opportunities for rail investment and to benefit from EU funds also in northern Sweden. It didn't exist before. I hope that it can help to speed up the expansion of the railways also in northern Sweden.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-202	Madam President, I would like I shall refer to the question put by my colleague, Alexandra Anstrell, about aid to Afghanistan. According to researcher Said Reza Kazemi from the independent and Sida-funded research institution Afghanistan Analysts Network, all relief organisations operating in Afghanistan pay tax to the Taliban. Everyone, without exception. This is the requirement for them to operate in the Taliban-controlled regions. The Taliban movement has become a parallel government in Afghanistan, charging taxes and customs, controlling the education system and so on.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-206	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, the Swedish Afghanistan Committee is a large organisation that carries out extensive school and education activities in Afghanistan, also in areas where the Taliban operate. But in the areas that this scientist has investigated, there is no such thing. Therefore, there is no reason to doubt the Committee when it says that it does not pay any tax to the Taliban. I'll think it's the truth until someone comes up with something else. Instead, the sweeping arguments put forward in the article on this and now forwarded by the Moderates are about a campaign to undermine confidence in aid. That is my firm opinion.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-209	Madam President, I would like High-speed trains are the government's flagship in infrastructure this term of office. Unfortunately, the issue crowds out other important discussions such as those on the future of Arlanda, the financing of new icebreakers and trains that do not come on time because maintenance is simply too bad. Today, the Swedish National Audit Office publishes its assessment of high-speed trains. The Swedish National Audit comes to almost exactly the same conclusions as the Moderates, and its sawing of the government's handling is almost epic. The Swedish National Audit Office says that the high-speed train was initially estimated to cost 50 billion. Now the cost has grown to 250 billion. Already today we see that Bypass Stockholm and Ostlinken exceed the planned costs by 13 billion.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-214	Madam President, I would like I note that the review by the Swedish National Audit Office and the report that has come – I will read it properly since – are essentially based on the work carried out under the alliance government. It was during the alliance led government that they started to work on what was built in Sweden, the great promise that they went to elections in 2014 and that we have then taken over because we share that vision. We must be able to continue developing the Swedish railway and get new main roads in place for the commuter trains and freight trains to arrive. The Swedish rail system is full. Developed capacity is needed. I can only regret that the Moderates do not have that vision, although I know that many Moderates in the country still share it. The cost estimates made by Trafikverket are around 230 billion. This is about the same cost as the Swedish negotiation came up with. But then we will also exclude the housing building of perhaps 100 000 homes that many municipalities and regions have now undertaken to implement.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-217	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. In my municipality of Hultsfred, we have taken great responsibility for receiving refugees. We have devoted time and resources to making integration work. Between 2017 and 2019, Hultsfred municipality organised vocational training for nurses, bus drivers and industrial workers. All the courses have been started after solid needs assessments at the local business community. Everything takes place in collaboration between the municipal labour market unit, Arbetsförmedlingen and employers. Targeted state grants often require the co-financing of municipalities and do not always allow municipalities to carry out the necessary training courses. The state grants are granted retrospectively, and there is a great risk for municipalities in terms of cost. Are there any plans to reform state subsidies in a way that enables needs-oriented vocational training?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-221	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nermina Mizimovic, for a very important question! When you are out meeting employers in Sweden, the biggest problem that is constantly being brought forward is the lack of skilled labour, the skills supply problems. Vocational education and training at Komvux level, which is addressed in this question, is essentially a municipal matter. But the government has seen that there is a great need here to contribute more resources. We have also, within the framework of the Knowledgelift, allocated very large resources to support the municipalities in this. We have noticed from the government that, in order for the municipalities to ensure that these trainings really come into being, with the strained situation and difficulties in obtaining teachers, we need even more support. That is why the government has announced in the budget proposal that we should review the co-financing requirements that exist. We will come back when the review is done. I would like to thank Mrs Mizimovic for a very important question and, at the same time, to apologise for saying the name so badly.
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-226	Madam President, I would like Most people agree that there is a housing crisis in Sweden, and it is not just a situation that can be built away. The existing stock needs to be better exploited. Today we have a situation that creates lock-in effects, prevents mobility and makes optimum use of the housing stock impossible. In an article in Focus magazine two weeks ago, Minister of Housing Per Bolund was interviewed about why so little is happening politically to solve the housing shortage. One point the Minister himself made in the interview was that the renovation and renovation of housing can also provide more accessible housing. My question to Per Bolund is thus: what initiatives does the Minister of Housing intend to take to ensure that renovation and reconstruction will provide more accessible housing, and when will these initiatives be taken?
i-eea04c9ee1fe00e8-229	Madam President, I would like I do not share David Josefsson's assessment that a little is happening. On the contrary, a great deal is happening when it comes to housing policy. We have a more active housing policy than we have had in many years in Sweden, also with active government efforts in the form of, for example, investment aid and many points in the January agreement. We are also doing what we can to ensure that the existing stock can be used effectively. Mobility is also at a record level, which is important to note. It is not the case that mobility has decreased in recent years. On the other hand, we need to ensure that we also have the opportunity and the resources to renovate existing housing, for example in millions of programme areas. In this perspective, it was very sad that in the budget that the Moderates and Christian Democrats put on Parliament's table and voted for by the Swedish Democrats took away the support that existed for the rehabilitation of millions of programme areas with simultaneous energy efficiency. That was a step in the wrong direction. We will now assess the progress of the renovation work and will then see what measures are needed to really get started, because it is important for a future sustainable housing supply.
