i-288ba148bd50293e-0	Madam President, I would like Sweden has come to excel in the world when it comes to the large number of so-called Swedes who travelled from Sweden to the Islamic State terror war. The reason lies in previous governments' naive notion of the effects of immigration on Swedish society. Strong and undemanding immigration would lead to a strong economy and a flourishing multicultural culture. Instead, we experienced growing segregation and more vulnerable areas with a growing criminality. We also got growing groups who didn't want to integrate into Swedish society at all, but who even despise Swedish society and our way of life. It is in these environments that violent Islamist extremism has flourished, not infrequently with the help of state subsidies. Now we have a situation in which 300 individuals, through their active support to the Islamic State, have declared war on our country. Beheadings, acts of terror and sadistic deadly violence have been accepted by the 300 individuals in their struggle for the Islamic State. Of them, 150 have returned to Sweden. No one is in custody, no one is in prison and no one is suspected of any crime linked to the Islamic State. About 100 people with links to Sweden remain and now want to come back and live on grant money when the Islamic State has collapsed. I will explain in this debate the difference that exists between the pro-Sweden opposition and the red-green government and why the red-green government's talk about criminal liability means in practice that hardly any IS terrorist will be brought to justice. I will also appeal to the opposition that feels compelled to take a greater responsibility than the Red Green Government has shown and gathers around proposals that go beyond what the Red Green Government has announced. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament is the voice of the Swedish people. It is my view that the majority of the Swedish people demand that we do more than the Red-Green Government has done in the fight against the remains of the Islamic State.
i-288ba148bd50293e-8	Madam President, I would like IS's so-called caliphate has collapsed. The tyranny and terrible abuse of the IS by Yazidi, Christians and Muslims is finally coming to an end. Syria and Iraq are now facing the difficult path back to peace and stability. At the same time, the world and Sweden are faced with questions about how we help to bring justice and ensure security here at home. IS ravages are among the darkest episodes in modern history. Women have been sold as sex slaves, children have had to watch their parents tortured to death and men have been beheaded for propaganda purposes. Efforts have been made to wipe out peoples as well as the region's cultural heritage. Those who went down to the conflict area to join IS knew what a killer cult they supported. Now those who have committed terrorist crimes and war crimes must be held accountable for their actions. The guilty shall be prosecuted and convicted. Swedish courts have far-reaching powers to judge for violent crimes committed abroad. But the Swedish Government believes that there is also a need for a common international effort to bring justice. After the Second World War, the Balkan war and the genocide in Rwanda, new tribunals and trial procedures were established that came to play an important role in creating closure, restoration and justice. Sweden has started consultations with other like-minded countries on the conditions for establishing a special tribunal or similar mechanism. Conducting on-the-spot trials in the region means proximity to evidence, witnesses and plaintiffs. It's a complicated question. But the government will continue to push for joint European efforts. No matter where the crimes are investigated, access to evidence is central. During Sweden's time as a member of the UN Security Council, we pushed the issue of accountability for IS crimes. The result was, among other things, the work under way in UN-regime to collect evidence of the crimes committed in Iraq and Syria that could be used in future prosecutions of suspected criminals. As more and more countries now say, like Sweden, that they do not intend to bring home citizens who have joined IS, we should look at all the legal ways forward to bring them to justice. In the midst of this there are also children, children who have been born on the spot or who were forced to join when the parents left Sweden to join IS. The scope for action on the ground is limited due to the security situation. Foreign government personnel cannot operate in the conflict area. But the children's perspective is central to the government, and we analyse the situation very carefully. If a Swedish child is taken to a Swedish foreign agency, Swedish authorities may have the opportunity to contribute with consular support. In cases where the children have already returned to Sweden, the social services must be connected and the children's situation investigated so that appropriate measures can be taken. But IS case also creates consequences for our security here at home. The Security Service informs the Government of its concrete actions on an ongoing basis. If anyone makes it to Sweden, police and prosecutors are ready to act. For those who have returned from the conflict in Syria and Iraq, individual assessments are always made. The Security Service cooperates with other authorities and international partners to prevent and investigate terrorist offences. Meeting the threats of terrorism together requires determination and long-termness. It is therefore very valuable that six parties were able to agree on several important measures once in December 2015 and a second time in June 2017. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the parties for their good and constructive cooperation. For all 29 points set out in the two political agreements, the government has carried out or started work. A number of legislative changes have already been made. Terrorism travel has been criminalised as well as receiving terrorism training. In addition, all funding of a terrorist organisation has been criminalised. Meeting the threat of terrorism together requires continued determination and long-termness. The Government has recently submitted three legislative proposals to the Riksdag to further strengthen the conditions for combating terrorist offences: The next step is to move forward with a further penalty for terrorism-related crime. That work has already begun. At the end of this month, a special investigator will make such a proposal that the government will continue to work on at a rapid pace. It is clear that our efforts to prevent, prevent and make terrorist acts more difficult must continue. Those who violently destabilize our society and create fear of influencing the development of society and democratic decisions should not cause us to deviate from the principles that form the basis of our democracy. A continued broad consensus ensures that Sweden continues to cope with this balancing process. The threat from terrorism is changing, and our efforts to combat this threat must continue. In the defence of our democracy and our fundamental rights and freedoms, we will never be able to protect ourselves against everything. But we must do everything we can to ensure that Sweden is safe.
i-288ba148bd50293e-23	Madam President, I would like In recent years, terrorists have repeatedly attacked various targets in Europe. On 7 April 2017, Sweden was also affected by the terrible attack on Drottninggatan here in Stockholm. We must never sit back in the belief that we are spared further attacks. Terrorism is a threat to our democracy and our way of life. That threat must be met with all its might. The Swedish Security Service estimates that approximately 300 people have travelled from Sweden to Syria and Iraq to join IS. Almost half of them have already returned. The media have recently reported up to 800 imprisoned terrorist travelers in Syria alone. Some of these are most likely to have Swedish citizenship. Some countries are better equipped than others. In Norway, for example, legislation is already in place which criminalises participation in a terrorist organisation, which facilitates the management of the returnees. The government's slow management of counter-terrorism measures and IS-returners has put Sweden in a serious situation. Unfortunately, we still lack many of the tools that, among others, the Security Service is calling for to protect Sweden's security. It has now been three months since the Security Service's last alert was that the legislation is lagging behind and called for more effective instruments to combat terrorism. I say, most recently, because the problems have been well known for a long time, and the needs have been there for even longer. Both signal detection during pre-investigation as well as data storage and the ability to use secret data reading need to be in place as soon as possible. Otherwise, according to the Authority, there is a great risk that serious crime, including terrorism, cannot be prevented. Although both the threat picture and the need have been known for a long time, time passes, and several important proposals have still not been put in place. That, Madam President, is very regrettable. The Moderates have proposed a battery of measures that need to be taken urgently to strengthen Sweden's work against terrorism. First of all, the Security Service and the police must be given better tools. Among other things, it is an opportunity to introduce secret data reading. Such a change of law would give the Security Service an opportunity to access communications that are currently hidden in different types of digital services and encrypted apps. The Security Service must also be given the opportunity to search for signals during pre-trial investigations. Sweden needs a functioning regulation of data storage. Even secret room tapping should be possible in the case of serious crimes with a terrorist connection. The possibility of using so-called preventive coercive measures, which can be used without a preliminary investigation, needs to be extended to prevent terrorist offences. We want the Secret Service to have and use an opportunity to call every IS returnee to interrogation. Today, a preliminary investigation is required into a crime in which the person who has returned is implicated in the investigation. This means that both evidence and intelligence are lost. Finally, the penalties for terrorist-related crime must be substantially tightened in order to better reflect the seriousness of the crimes and put them in the context where they belong. Madam President, I would like These are proper and effective measures that would have a direct impact on our law enforcement authorities' ability to combat terrorism. Unfortunately, the government has presented very few proposals at the Riksdag table. Measures that we and the government agreed on already in 2015 and 2017 have not yet been taken, despite repeated calls. In December 2015, we entered into an agreement with the government in the fight against terrorism. Following the attack on Drottninggatan, a new agreement was reached with further important efforts such as the Security Service's access to intelligence from signal intelligence, police access to camera surveillance and extended criminalisation of participation in terrorist organisations. It was 2015 and 2017. Now we are in March 2019. The licensing obligation for police camera surveillance has still not been abolished. The Security Service has still not been able to access information from signal intelligence. Secret data reading is still not possible, and links with terrorist organisations have still not been criminalised. I believe that many people in our country, together with me, are asking themselves: how could the handling of such important issues have been allowed to go so slowly? This is where the government owes the answer. Madam President, I would like Terrorism aims to spread terror and create divisions. It is a threat to free and open society. The threat from IS-returners is too serious to be prioritised. We must use the full power of our democracy to stop Islamic violence and, to the extent possible, to prosecute the returnees for their committed crimes. But we must also recognise the seriousness and do everything in our power to prevent and prevent future terrorist acts in Sweden and protect Swedish citizens from the heinous acts of terrorism. We demand that the government act swiftly and get the necessary measures in place.
i-288ba148bd50293e-36	Madam President, I would like Although Sweden is one of the countries that stands out when it comes to IS terrorists, Sweden is the only country in Europe that has not yet adopted a law that punishes participation in a terrorist organisation. To sum up briefly, the Red-Green Government has come up with relevant legislation against any new terrorist phenomenon when it is too late. All those who wanted to travel to the Islamic State had travelled clearly when the government chose to make proposals for legislation to criminalise terrorist travel. When no Swede is expected to remain and fight for the Islamic State, the Red-Green Government proposes a criminalisation of participation in the Islamic State's terror war. None of those who have travelled from Sweden to murder and torture can thus be prosecuted by something that the government has done. That is also the reason why none of those who have come back are indicted or imprisoned for their time in the Islamic State. All who have travelled to the Islamic State will, according to the Red Green Government, have the right to return to Sweden and live here without criminal liability for the rest of their lives. That is the real consequence of the policy of the Red Green Government. Madam President, I would like This is a complete disaster. Although everyone knows it is a complete disaster, the government does not intend to take any action to prevent terrorists from returning, nor any measure to detain any terrorist who has already returned. The government intends to allow these ticking bombs to walk around freely on our streets in our society while waiting for any of them to commit a new crime in Sweden or possibly to be prosecuted at a tribunal, if concrete evidence of crime is produced in Syria and Iraq. However, according to most legal experts, the vast majority will never be able to be bound to concrete crimes and will thus be able to live a free life in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are the only party whose political proposal guarantees that all individuals who have travelled with intent to participate in the Islamic State's terror war will never again go free in Sweden. We have taken all the positions necessary to put Sweden's security first and to put Islamist terrorists in prison. Madam President, I would like If we are to have an opportunity to detain any of the IS terrorists currently living in our country, the law of criminalising participation in terrorist organisations is the best starting point. The only problem is that the law is not retroactive and that it is not yet in place. The law now under way will therefore not include any of those who have travelled to the terror war of the Islamic State. Is it wrong, then, to enforce the law retroactively? It can certainly be doubtful whether people have joined the Islamic State in the belief that it is a charity that engages in peaceful working methods. Then these individuals have not been able to predict that there may be a legal problem with joining the Islamic State, and then a law should of course not be able to be criminalising against their participation. But, Madam President, that is not the case with the Islamic State. The Islamic State's propaganda aimed at attracting people has been aimed at promoting terrorism as a working method to achieve the aims of the organisation. All those who have travelled have therefore been well aware that their support goes to the torture and murder of innocent people. Then I think that the demand for a retroactive ban can not only be discussed, but the retroactivity ban should be completely overlooked when it comes to the criminalisation of participation in the Islamic State. It is we elected politicians who decide whether such an exception is reasonable. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats will vote for the Act on Participation in Terrorist Organizations to apply retroactively, so that all individuals who have travelled with intent to support and participate in the Islamic State's terror war are hit by the Act. My call is for us to pool broad majority support in this House for this proposal. If we can impose criminal liability on IS terrorists, the next question arises: Is it enough with what the government has announced, up to six years in prison? That, of course, is not enough. This requires an understanding of the nature of the problem. Terrorists do not automatically become Western-influenced democrats by being in prison in Sweden for a few years. The Swedish Democrats have previously called for a new penalty, which exists in various forms in Denmark and Norway and which in Sweden is found in the field of forensic psychiatry. We've chosen to call it a storage judgment. This means that, in the case of certain crimes that do not lead to life imprisonment, dangerous persons can have their punishment combined with an opportunity for prolonged detention. If you are sentenced to forensic psychiatric care, for example, with what is called a special discharge test, you will not be free until you have lived up to certain criteria. You simply need to recover from the condition you have found yourself in when a serious crime has been committed. This logic must also enter into criminal law and become applicable to terrorists. Terrorists should not be released as long as they have the will and ability to carry out new terrorist offences, and in the case of serious crimes additional requirements should be met. In the case of those who have participated in the Islamic State's terror war, the Swedish Democrats' view is that the sentence should correspond to serious crimes with fixed-term prison sentences with the possibility of extension in detention. The criteria for being released after the fixed sentence must be that Swedish citizenship is suspended and that an expulsion can be carried out. Madam President, I would like It is my call that we gather broad majority support in this House for this proposal.
i-288ba148bd50293e-50	Madam President, I would like Executions, terrorist attacks, systematic rapes, murders due to sexual orientation and more – IS has committed abominable acts around the world and not least in Syria. If you have participated in or been associated with IS, it must have severe consequences. It is quite clear that Sweden and many other countries have not been prepared to handle situations like this in a good way. The Center Party has long wanted to see more stringent terrorist legislation. We have pushed for the criminalisation of participation in and association with terrorist organisations, the support of terrorism and the financing of participation in terrorist activities. It is good that the government has now presented proposals that are a step in the right direction, but unfortunately it has taken far too long to get legislation in place. This is unacceptable, but above all the proposals are inadequate. More needs to be done in order for Sweden to have a stronger preparedness against terrorism. Among other things, there is a need for a national resource team working operationally with returning terrorists and radical environments. A ban on public funds going to organisations that spread violent messages needs to be put in place as soon as possible. An important part of the fight against terrorism is increased efforts on the whole legal chain in order to prevent, combat and condemn these heinous acts. An important part of this work is that Säpo is given sufficient resources to combat terrorism in the best possible way. Madam President, I would like Sweden should not help Swedes home who have chosen to join IS. In the first place, we want to be punished in the country where the crime was committed, not least for the sake of victims. At the same time, this is a terrible situation which requires strong international action and cooperation. The Center Party has not closed the door to an international tribunal. The issue of citizenship has been extremely topical in the debate. We should remember that it is a measure that could not come into force now, since, among other things, a constitutional amendment is required. That is why it does not help in the situation we are facing here and now. It would also be contrary to international conventions to deprive people of their citizenship. However, it does not mean that we should help people back to Sweden. If you come to Sweden, the judiciary should turn every page of the law book to be able to judge for the crimes for which you can be convicted. The Center Party wants to push for all returning IS terrorists immediately and without any exception to be questioned by the Swedish Security Police. In the midst of this terrible situation, children find themselves, because their parents have chosen to act completely unacceptable and expose their children to things that no one, especially children, should have to experience. Regarding the children's perspective, there will be very difficult situations to solve, such as orphans living with families that are not really theirs or children who are taken care of by people who claim to be their parents and who use the children themselves to end up in a better position. It would be good if Sweden worked for the UN to map out the situation of children. While this is going on, it is important that they get help from UNICEF, for example, with trauma treatment. Madam President, I would like We now need strong legislation in place to better prevent and combat terrorist offences, but also to provide the right resources and tools for the rule of law in order to combat terrorism. Extremism, terrorism and anti-democratic currents must be countered on several levels, at all levels. Terrorist crimes must be severely punished.
i-288ba148bd50293e-59	Madam President, I would like Terrorism is a major threat to democracy and to all of us who want to live in a free society. In violent environments, we do not want feminists, environmentalists and single mothers to be able to live in freedom. The violent extremism that IS stands for is a caricature of what happens when male violent culture is allowed to ravage freely and unhinderedly use its means of power. Those most affected by IS are Muslims and minorities in the area – Muslims who live their lives in peace and freedom and distance themselves from the extreme part of Islam that IS believes they are advocating. Actually, they only advocate death, violence, and destruction. War crimes, murders and violence are totally unacceptable. People who commit criminal acts must be investigated, prosecuted and convicted. It does not matter what justification they have for committing crimes; it is totally unacceptable. There should be no one who thinks that you can go down and fight for IS, kill and rape and then come back to Sweden or any other country and walk free. The war has been going on for too long. There is now much that needs to be done and many aspects to be taken into account. The Left Party wants Sweden to cooperate with the Kurdish government in northern Syria. The Kurdish-led forces have driven the fight against IS, which has now been restricted. They've been defending our security. Now that the Kurds are asking for the help of the outside world to deal with the imprisoned IS members, we will be there. We also want to provide humanitarian aid and support for the reconstruction of governance in northern Syria. Basically, we do it for our own safety, but it is also about helping those who took the battle and defeated IS. Now it's our turn to legalize the IS warriors. Court proceedings and police investigations shall be conducted either in Sweden, in The Hague or at a so-called hybrid court in the Kurdish areas. The information collected through the UN International Impartial and Independent Mechanism will be of great help in the work on documentation, and all countries of Europe should assist with intelligence and investigations. One of the most difficult issues in terms of war crimes and terrorism is that of securing evidence. Therefore, the Swedish police will be sent to secure areas to obtain evidence that we will be able to obtain more convictions. We all need to help each other. Prosecution of persons in Sweden is a better option than the release of these persons in the absence of courts and thus can infiltrate the flows of refugees against Turkey and Greece and then carry out new violent crimes in Europe. It is taking responsibility for the security of Europe as a whole, and it signals both Belgium and France that they will act. It's about a hundred people from Sweden, and in Sweden we have a legal system that can handle this. Madam President, I would like There are many guilty in this war, but some who are never guilty are the children. Children are not guilty of their parents' crimes. Children should not suffer because one or more parents have made bad choices. Therefore, Sweden will enable children to return to Sweden. It is about 40 Swedish children who are present in IS-controlled areas in Syria. It is children who are starving and have no access to health care, schooling and some kind of security. In Sweden, children must receive support according to the Social Services Act. Parents should be investigated not only for their possible crime but also for their suitability as parents. The question is where these children will have the best chance of leaving extremism and terrorism behind. Is it in a war country where they learn to use weapons and act as child soldiers? Or is it in a Swedish classroom where they hackigt can spell their way through the first Harry Potter book and then play ball at the break? It is a choice that must now be made. The Left Party will always be on the children's side. We will always stand up for humanism and solidarity around the world.
i-288ba148bd50293e-70	Madam President, I would like Hundreds of IS terrorists have been captured in connection with the offensive against the Islamic State's last stronghold in Syria. About 40 of those arrested should be Swedes. The terrorists and sympathizers who are now in prison knew very well what evil organization they joined. They have chosen to become part of an organization whose mission has been to turn people's everyday lives into hell on earth. Through their ravages in Syria and Iraq, Islamic state criminals have been guilty of some of the worst crimes the world has witnessed since the Second World War: crucifixions of Christians, rapes against women and children, suicide bombings and executions. Despite the knowledge of IS genocide and the persecution of Christian minorities such as Chaldeans, Syrians, Assyrians and Yazidians, there are Swedish citizens who have chosen to make themselves tools for this bestial terror. Now they want to come home. Now they're asking for our help. At home they would pose a serious threat to people's lives and security. There is a risk that they will decide to spread blood and terror on the streets of Stockholm, for example, in the same way that has been done in Syria and Iraq. That risk cannot be ignored. The Christian Democrats' message is that Sweden should not offer any help for these people to return to our country. Instead, we will do everything we can to bring justice, and that applies wherever the terrorists are. The minions of the Islamic State, who have scorned the freedom of other people and trampled on respect for human dignity in the most terrible way, are to be detained, brought to justice and sentenced to harsh and just punishment. The children who have been forced to go down to IS should be taken care of by Swedish authorities if the parents acted in concert, and the parents who have brought their children to the cult of death should be prosecuted for kidnapping or trafficking in human beings in accordance with existing laws. The entire law book will be used in the fight. The issue of withdrawing citizenship has been highlighted in the debate. There is, of course, reason to strengthen Swedish citizenship and to review the grounds on which it can be withdrawn. We Christian Democrats also believe that it should be self-evident that anyone who has supported or fought for a terrorist organisation such as the Islamic State should also be able to be convicted of treason. Our focus right now, however, is primarily on ensuring that the vile crimes and genocide committed in the name of IS also lead to people being sentenced to responsibility while maintaining the safety and security of people in Sweden. Those who have been guilty of some of the most disgusting acts the world has seen will also be forced to see how justice is done. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Sweden is less equipped than other EU countries to handle return IS sympathisers. There is a lack of a plan both for how to deal with the return and for how to ensure that the terrorists are actually held accountable. There is a heavy responsibility on the part of the Red-Green Government for this. The Christian Democrats have for years been demanding that the government, in the UN Security Council and in other contexts, push for an international tribunal for IS crimes to come into place. We believe that an international tribunal, together with joint efforts to secure evidence on the ground in Syria and Iraq, would increase the possibility of bringing as many criminals as possible to justice. Nazi war criminals are being sought and prosecuted to this day for crimes against humanity, and we Christian Democrats want Sweden, together with the outside world, to ensure that the people of the Islamic State can in the same way never expect anything other than international accountability and prosecution. Despite the fact that more than five years have passed since the so-called Caliphate of the Islamic State was proclaimed and travel from Sweden took off seriously, it is unfortunately only now that this proposal is being put forward by a vexed government. The slowness of the government has led to such panic that it even travelled to Brussels with this position without even being able to anchor it in the Swedish parliament. We Christian Democrats, of course, welcome the fact that Mikael Damberg is pushing in the EU for our proposal for an international tribunal for IS crimes, but it is time for the government to wake up now. Sweden, as the leading European exporter of IS terrorists, had a special responsibility to promote a broad international judicial review. The Christian Democrats pushed and proposed such a solution, and the government missed a unique opportunity to put the issue on the international agenda with the seat of the UN Security Council. The big question remains, Madam President. Why didn't Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and the Red Green Government act earlier? Why only act now? It's way too late.
i-288ba148bd50293e-82	Madam President, I would like It is surprising to us Liberals that many people seem just surprised that this regime is now falling. It can't really be a surprise to anyone in Sweden, and it can't be a surprise to the Swedish government. This twisted killer cult, with its different faces, has seemed for decades. Its distorted world view plagues the world with irreconcilable hatred, cruel violence and bestial, systematic killing. They have also plagued Sweden with acts of terror and murdered innocent people all over Europe. Horror is being put in every person who here feels more or less directly exposed to hatred and violence than we legislators in this House do. The international coalition against IS has now made sure that this happens, and there Sweden has participated. We have every reason to emphasise that. It's been right, and it's been real. The disgusting and long-standing terror and murder are being stopped at the moment. The stories are clarified, and at least I am so angry that I almost get physical pain in my body and can get nausea when I take part of these stories and pictures that show how we humans can act when we go completely crazy. I take part of this to understand the madness and understand what we need to do to protect ourselves in the future. Still, when we boil with anger, it is important that we try to keep our heads cool. Now we have to win in place, in the long term. It's easier said than done. The issues are extremely complex. And the path from words to action in this Chamber is more difficult than usual. What happens on the ground is ultimately governed by how to act in those organisations and countries that have control over the decaying area of the caliphate. The efforts of those powers also affect what will happen here. Liberals see a number of measures that we need to work on in parallel and structured. But it's urgent. We must strengthen the Swedish security police and the police in the long term in order to deal with the returnees and all those who have already returned here. We must give the police authorities the maximum opportunity to investigate, prosecute and, hopefully, later in court, to judge these people on solid evidence. The powers and tools of coercive measures have been highlighted by several speakers. These must be on the ground as soon as possible. Together with other countries, not least within the European Union, we should examine the issue of an international tribunal in order to investigate, prosecute and judge on the spot guilty close to the crime scenes. If this is not possible, we believe that, in parallel, full work must be done on the EU track in order to do the same. This applies, on the one hand, if an international tribunal cannot be put in place, and, on the other hand, because we know that tribunals generally do not try everyone, but only the leadership of genocide and terrorist acts. There are structures within the European Union to build on. We have Europol and its counter-terrorism units which have their special response team. Here, Sweden will act with all its might to act together with other European countries on the ground as soon as possible to investigate and vacuum the area of evidence, so that we can act together. Humanitarian action is also important. Here, Sweden will of course contribute, directly or through our non-profit organisations, which we invest a large part of our assistance in. This applies first and foremost to the victims of terrorism, people who now live in poverty as a result of the fact that it has taken so long for the coalition to stop this insane caliphate. However, it will take time. There will be Swedish citizens on site who will be prepared to be in these camps for a long time. We have every reason to make sure that those people can be investigated in order to be prosecuted later. It is about establishing identities, and it is really about starting some sort of deprogramming and de-radicalisation on the ground. Although few people think they should come here, we may need to take responsibility for our own Swedish citizens. But it is a global problem that needs to be met on the ground. And it begins now, in these camps. Sweden should be strong here. With regard to the sensitive question of how to act, we must reasonably have some confidence and understanding of, for example, the Kurdish regime's appeal: can you in Sweden take care of your citizens? It is the same logic that we in Sweden have when foreign people are arrested here, convicted and perhaps expelled. Then we would like them, whether they are Finns, Germans or Syrians, to be sent out of our country. We must understand that this also applies to the Kurds and how they should act. In the case of children, we may return. The situation could be urgent. But basically Sweden has responsibility for the children of Swedish citizens. We'll see how it can be solved. It's complicated. It is not appropriate for a parliamentary debate. But we have a responsibility. It is clear to the Liberals. Madam President, I would like These are difficult questions. In my second speech, I would like to return to the views of the Liberals on what we need to do here and now. The situation is urgent now. But we have had the problem for many years.
i-288ba148bd50293e-95	Madam President, I would like Over the course of history, mankind has witnessed evil too many times in its purest form. Of course, we wish it had never happened, or at least that it had belonged to the Middle Ages and the past. Unfortunately, we have also seen several times in the 20th century and also in the 21st century different types of terrorists on different continents and with different ideological protagonists – Communist dictatorships, fascists and Nazis. In recent years we have seen fanatical Islamists building a reign of terror, a so-called caliphate, in Syria and Iraq. It is a reign of terror that is finally – thank God – repressed by an international coalition. This debate is about how to deal with the aftermath of the ravages of this murder squad. IS cruelty and ruthlessness are well documented, not least by themselves. It's something that makes IS quite unique. While many other horrors in history have often hidden their mass graves and torture chambers, IS has spread its monstrous abuse on social media and on the internet for propaganda purposes. This propaganda also enabled recruitment from Sweden and many other European countries. It started in 2013 – 2014 but has also continued since. The terrorist acts committed by IS and by IS have not only taken place in Syria and Iraq. In recent years we have seen acts of terrorism in several parts of Europe: Manchester, Brussels, Munich, Nice and also Stockholm. I think we all remember where we were when we heard about the terrible thing that happened on Drottninggatan. It has also happened elsewhere in the world. In recent years, many measures have been taken to combat and prevent terrorism. Here in Sweden it was done across the block border, because Sweden's security when it comes to threats is not something that divides us but on the contrary holds us together. Two major cross-block agreements were made in 2015 and 2017. They have also been followed by laws and tools. Examples of measures include new security laws, measures against illegal weapons, several measures against terrorist financing, the establishment of the Centre against violent extremism and measures against online propaganda. The fact that so-called terrorist travel and education have also been criminalised is important. The authorities responsible for protecting us from threats – the police, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces – must have the tools and resources they need to carry out their missions. This spring, Parliament will handle proposals on data storage and changes in the rules for signal scanning. It is about the state's ability to protect citizens – we who live and work in our wonderful country – democracy, peace and freedom and the rights that we want and protect. Madam President, I would like In times such as these, the rule of law is being tested from various quarters. For those of us who are democrats, it is more important than ever to stand up for the principles of the rule of law. Persons who have committed crimes shall be held to account in a court of law, whether national or international. Laws shall not be applied retroactively. Children should never be held guilty for what their parents have done. And existing laws and international conventions must be observed and applied. The government, and the Green Party that I represent in the debate, have made the assessment that Sweden should not currently go to Syria and bring home Swedish citizens who have joined IS. We would rather see them judged in an international tribunal, whether in place, in the immediate vicinity or elsewhere. The Kurdish groups holding the IS prisoners have appealed to Europe's countries to take responsibility for their citizens. It's very easy to understand why. Neither the Kurds, Syria nor Iraq have asked to join. Sweden and other European countries, from where they have come, need to cooperate on this, because we share the problem. The terrorism did not occur with IS and does not disappear because IS is crushed. We must constantly be prepared to oppose those who want to harm our democratic society and our rights and freedoms.
i-288ba148bd50293e-105	Madam President, I would like In order to increase the impact of the fight against terrorism and other serious crime, the government has made record investments in the Police Authority and the Security Service, and this will continue in the coming years. The government has also carried out, in broad parliamentary cooperation, a historic extension of the criminal domain of terrorism-related actions: in particular, criminal liability for terrorist travel, the reception of terrorism training and the strengthening of a ban on the financing of terrorists or terrorist organisations. I note that last Friday a man was sentenced by the Solna District Court to seven years in prison and life imprisonment for, among other things, preparations for terrorist crimes linked to IS. Four people were convicted of financing IS activities. The penalty for this went to prison. This, I believe, is a development of the legislation that Parliament has been working on in recent years. I am absolutely convinced that the legislation which is now before Parliament and which is about banning participation in and association with terrorist organisations will lead to more people being prosecuted for terrorism-related crime than today. This is not the only thing that has happened. We have also strengthened our preparedness here at home. The Security Service and the police have developed their methods and work on these issues, not least as regards returnees. Since 1 January 2018, the Centre against violent extremism has been located at the Crime Prevention Council. One of the Centre's main tasks is to provide needs-oriented support to municipalities in the prevention of violent extremism. The Centre has also set up a network of municipalities most affected by the problems of violent extremism. All municipalities receiving returnees from IS-controlled areas will be visited to provide needs-oriented support. This is important because municipalities play an important role in the prevention of violent extremism. The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed a knowledge support for municipalities' social services so that it can work with these issues. The National Board of Health and Welfare also has an information service that the municipalities can turn to. In the work of returning IS fighters, the Swedish Security Service and the Police Authority have strengthened their cooperation. Through the Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service also communicates information to municipalities about returnees. This is very important, not least when it comes to children to returnees. In order for the social services to be able to act, they must be informed by the police or other actors, for example through a report of concerns. This is an important work that we have started and which is not finished, but it will continue to develop. The questions are important here and now. It is also important for Sweden that we strengthen our own security. In my next speech, I will come back to you on the international aspects of this. Several here have raised the humanitarian situation in not least the war-affected areas of the region. Sweden has an important role here in also providing help, partly to build security and stability, and partly to the humanitarian organisations that work for children's and women's right to live a decent life in these areas. It is an important piece of work where Sweden is already one of the largest humanitarian donors today. I know that later this week the Minister for Development will be travelling to an aid conference. This is a work that we must not forget. If we do not contribute to good solutions in the region, the problems for Europe and the rest of the world over time will increase.
i-288ba148bd50293e-114	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the Government, you get a description that sounds like this almost works perfectly and that there are no major problems or challenges. I note that on most points I have a completely different picture. Just take the fact that the Swedish Security Service states that 150 people have returned to Sweden after participating in a terrorist organisation. No one has actually been prosecuted for anything other than those who have committed terrorist offences. I think that is quite clear. Now there are some things coming from the government. It is certainly good, although I have to say that once you read the material you are struck by the fact that everything is always at the bottom of what is needed. With regard to the regulation of data storage, the data shall be kept for two months. The police are testifying that it's too short a time. With regard to the criminalisation of participation in a terrorist organisation, the government proposes that, for offences of normal rank, the maximum sentence shall be two years in prison. That corresponds to the scale of punishment for theft. I find it provocative that the government comes to Parliament with such legislation for such a serious crime. I would also like to talk about something else. We must be able to think both short-term and long-term. Here and now we have talked a lot about what is needed right now to prosecute people. I want to raise my eyes and take up something else, namely Swedish citizenship. In 2017, I proposed that for the person who has committed a terrorist offence and who has dual citizenship, there should be an opportunity to recall the Swedish. Such legislation is in fact the norm in the rest of Europe. In the vast majority of countries there is something similar. There are several reasons for my proposal. For us Moderates, citizenship means something. This brings with it a wide range of rights that are extremely central. But it also follows some obligations. If you have left Sweden and been guilty of terrorist crimes, Sweden is no longer at home for this person, we mean. It is important to introduce this possibility to highlight the importance of citizenship, to strengthen the sanction for those who have committed terrorist offences and to facilitate deportation after serving sentences. As I understand it, the government and the Social Democrats are still opposed to this for exactly the same reasons they were against it in 2017, namely that it takes time. That is the case, Madam President. It'll take time. But if the government had listened then we would have been much closer to using this opportunity today. I have noticed that Germany is now making a handshake across party and block borders. The bourgeoisie and the Social Democrats are now putting forward a joint proposal of this kind. I welcome that. It's a wise decision of them.
i-288ba148bd50293e-123	Madam President, I would like If you are not prepared to enforce retroactively the law on participation in terrorist organisations, if you are not prepared to reconcile the punishment with a detention sentence and if you are not prepared to withdraw citizenship and expel for life, you have actively chosen to allow the Islamic State's terror war into our country. In the midst of us, there will then be terrorists with intent and ability to promote terror and carry out terrorist attacks. Through the large number of individuals involved, the Security Service then has to decide who should be under supervision and who at the moment does not pose a direct threat. One who for the moment was not considered a direct threat of terror was Rakhmat Akilov. Let it sink in! There is no need for visible preparations for a dormant terrorist cell or for an individual terrorist to cause enormous damage in a short time. Retroactive legislation was applied against the Nazis of the 1930s and to some extent against the terrorist Anders Behring Breivik in Norway. Those parties that consider themselves to have too fine principles for making the necessary political decisions can then explain to the relatives of the victims of terrorism how fine they are with their principles. Those parties will be indirectly guilty of any attack that can be linked to the IS terrorists that we are now discussing. Madam President, I would like I do not really believe that this congregation is mature enough to understand the seriousness of the situation we are in. I am really worried that this congregation is not mature enough to see what is at stake. History has shown too many times that some parties need an act of terror to establish their own naivety and then take certain measures. But then, Madam President, it is too late. Then we've lost. Then we have failed in our mission. The threat we now face requires a proper self-examination of each of us. I hope that a majority will be able to recognise and do what is necessary to stand up for our country and the security of our citizens, but also to stand up for those who have fallen victim to the rise of the Islamic State in the war of terror in Syria and Iraq. Madam President, I would like Let us make the law of participation in terrorist organisations retroactively applicable. Let all those who have travelled to Syria and Iraq with the intention of participating in the Islamic State's terror war be struck by a detention sentence with a detention sentence. Let us make their coming freedom conditional on the completion of Swedish citizenship and the execution of a lifetime expulsion. None of this, Madam President, will contradict the fact that any of these individuals will then be brought to justice in a war tribunal for concrete terrorist crimes committed in Syria and Iraq. But that is what we can do to assume our responsibilities for an immediate situation that we now find ourselves in. It is the only political guarantee that the most dangerous terrorists will never again be allowed free in our country.
i-288ba148bd50293e-130	Madam President, I would like We must never end up in a situation where terror dictates the conditions for society. It is quite clear that Sweden and many other countries have not been prepared to handle situations like this in a good way. We need to do much more to combat and prevent terrorism. The Center Party has long wanted to see more stringent terrorist legislation. It is now quite clear that this is needed in order to prevent, prevent and punish acts of terrorism. The response to terrorism requires international cooperation, cooperation at EU level, changes in Swedish legislation, efforts on the judiciary and support for municipalities and organisations. A major challenge for the coming years will be to prevent radicalisation but also de-radicalise those who are already radicalized. There is a need for a national resource team working operationally with returning terrorists and radical environments. Municipalities need increased support in order to capture young people who are at risk of radicalisation in schools and social services. It is quite clear that prevention needs to be improved. However, it is just as obvious that Swedish legislation is not enough for people who have committed terrible crimes like these to receive the punishment they deserve. Security must be defended at all times, every day. We live in a complex time, and it cannot be denied that what happens outside our Swedish and European borders affects here too. We must pursue a policy that creates freedom from political oppression and religious extremism. Every day we will stand up to defend that. We are going to legislate and give the judiciary the opportunity to judge harshly and to ensure that terrorism does not grow in our society. It requires both the police and the Security Service to be given the means and tools to combat and combat terrorism in the best possible way.
i-288ba148bd50293e-135	Before we allow the next speaker in, I would like to warmly welcome our visitors from Latvia to the Swedish Parliament: the Speaker of the Latvian Parliament Ināra Mūrniece and her delegation.
i-288ba148bd50293e-136	Madam President, I would like There shouldn't be a single IS terrorist who should think that it can go free after committing terrible crimes – not one. If they have committed crimes, they must be investigated by the police. If there are people who have not committed crimes, social authorities must be there really early in the process. The Left Party wants national guidelines to ensure that work on returnees works equally well throughout the country. An outreach work to find returnees must be done. No municipality is allowed to sit passively and wait for a jihadist to come and knock on the welfare office door. In Gothenburg there is a successful job of looking for returnees. The same methods should be used throughout Sweden. But then people must be helped to de-radicalise, to leave familiar thought patterns and to return to a democratic and free society. Helping these people now will mean that fewer terrorist crimes will occur in the future. It will come back children to Sweden who need an enormous amount of help and support. Children are not responsible for their parents' actions, bad choices, or crime. Children must be protected under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and this must be taken very seriously by every country. If we really want to stop IS and remove their entire recruitment base for new terrorists, there shouldn't be a single child left who can be forced to grow up in the caliphate. Social services must be given a special task to create plans for the children who return from IS right now. The suitability and ability of parents to care for children must be investigated. Social services must be connected for a long time. These are children who have experienced the worst things that can happen: war, death and starvation. It is everyone's responsibility to put an end to these horrors. Unfortunately, this is neither the first nor the last time that children are victims of adult warfare. Children are always victims. The work of rehabilitating child soldiers in Sierra Leone was not easy, but it worked. Methods and knowledge are available. Now it's important that the grown-up world doesn't fail. Society must take the work of preventing recruitment in the same seriousness as the work of taking care of returnees. Therefore, the Left Party is critical that the role of the National Coordinator is now more diffuse and less clear and that the Government has closed Save the Children's Concern Phone, which received 261 calls between 2017 and 2018. Local authorities must be given much better support in their preventive work. This work must not stop. In the government's eagerness to create new terror laws, the work against violent extremism has been lost.
i-288ba148bd50293e-142	Madam President, I would like For those who listen to this debate and take note of the intervention of the Minister for the Interior, it sounds like a lot is under control. There are investigations going on, and a lot has happened. But the fact is that Sweden is less equipped than other EU countries to deal with the situation with the returning IS-jihadists. The reason, Madam President, is that the Red Green Government has consistently and seriously underestimated the threat of Islamic terror. The government's slowness in this area has been demonstrated in various ways. The day before the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, the Social Democrats voted against this House to ban association with terrorist organisations. So it took a bloody terrorist attack on innocent people on one of Stockholm's streets to wake the government up and change its mind on the matter. It's upsetting. A review conducted by Expressen shows that no motions on punishment for terrorist crimes have come from the left. Now that participation in the activities of terrorist movements is finally to be criminalised, the government is putting the maximum sentence on two years' imprisonment. It is the same maximum punishment as for theft, as Johan Forssell said in his speech. It's a mockery of the Islamic state's victims. Sweden deserves better than a government that needs to be pushed forward on the most important issues concerning its security and people's lives, health and security. The red-green government never deserved renewed confidence, and we regret that not all the other parliamentary parties realised this. Unfortunately, the government is still here. Madam President, I would like Let us not repeat any mistakes. We know that Sweden needs to do more in the fight against terror and a much more intensive work against the causes of terror. The Christian Democrats propose that Swedish schools teach Islamism in the same way as they do about the crimes of Nazism and Communism against humanity. No public contribution shall be paid to extremist organisations, and funds unduly paid shall be reimbursed. We need to ban all foreign funding of mosques and organisations that can contribute to radicalisation, violence or terror, and Sweden needs to be a driving force within the EU to impose tough sanctions on states that fund extremist Islam or terror abroad. We must ensure that all mosques and Muslim organisations are free from foreign economic influence which can create a breeding ground for radicalisation. The government must now take action. When prevention is not enough and terrorist travel is at risk or is a fact, effective legislation must also be in place. Police and security police must have the necessary tools. It is about camera surveillance, access to secret data reading and the possibility to call for questioning with the returnees who come to Sweden. The problem of extremism must also be seen as part of a whole. Here, efforts are needed to reverse developments in exclusion areas in order to reduce the risk of recruitment. The fight against financial crime must be vigorously pursued. We must also combat culture of honour wherever it appears. There is much to be learned from our neighbours in this regard. Norway and Denmark have both better prevention and tougher legislation. Several in Sweden have pointed out early that more had to be done in Sweden, but unfortunately they have been accused of both one and the other. I hope that time is over. Let us not repeat the mistakes but face with action the threats of Islamic terror and its causes.
i-288ba148bd50293e-152	Madam President, I would like These are, as I said, difficult questions. I would like to reflect a little on the contributions that have been made. I have had the privilege of being a member of the Swedish Parliament for a while to note that since the terrorist attacks of the early 2000s in New York, Madrid and London, we have changed legislation in a number of areas. On another occasion, Madam President, I can take with me a list and identify which parties have been opposed to these changes each time, which parties have been opposed to the introduction of data storage, signalling, the possibility of relevant camera surveillance and preventive measures. Every time there have been people standing here saying no, no, no. We have said that there is a threat of terror. There are people who want our nation badly, and we have not only a right to defend Swedish democracy but also a duty. But then it's sounded different. One can say that I was critical of the government being slow and that it happened very little during the last term of office. I can be glad that there is now quite a lot going on. Because late but relevant legislation is now in place. Let's discuss here what else we can do. However, I would like to raise the finger of warning about the desire expressed, also in this speaker's chair, by, for example, the Swedish Democrats to introduce retroactive legislation. Let me warn against this by the principle of the rule of law. In addition to our own constitution, it violates both the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the United Nations equivalent. It's amazing. I would also like to say that it is directly counterproductive. But it may not be surprising for those who think that they should not participate in international cooperation. As a Liberal, I think it is a good thing that we can now do things together, for example, invest what we can in an international tribunal to judge from here. As a Liberal, I think it is a good thing that we are involved in the European Union's anti-terrorist cooperation in order to be able to work together with the Terrorist Task Force's expertise. This is a common problem. It is based on the fact that I am liberal and believe that we are becoming stronger and more effective together. If we in Sweden go out of all international collaborations alone, well, then we just become alone and less effective. Madam President, I would like I also think that we should look at what needs to be done practically. It is clear that in reality quite a lot of people who have been there have already returned. Those people are extremely injured. If they weren't injured before, they're injured now. I have seen, not least in my hometown of Örebro, how people who have come back are completely of the track and engage in other crime. More district policemen, more police officers working in close cooperation with an active social service, are very important. It has been important all along, and it is even more important now. I think we need to look at the whole broad work on the methods of open society to counter all extremism, culture of honour and other violations of the liberal rights that we want to give people in this country. It is not that everyone who is trapped in medieval honorary cultures is a terrorist suspect, but I can assure you that the opposite is guaranteed. The national centre against violent extremism has been highlighted. It needs increased resources and also an operational unit to really coordinate all of this, because there is a difference between what the social services in Stockholm can do compared to the social services in Laxå. There are completely different conditions for meeting these citizens. Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals believe that this is an eternal work. It is important to be clear and dare to take tough steps forward that are important in defending democracy. But we cannot overturn all democracy all over the place.
i-288ba148bd50293e-162	Madam President, I would like In my introductory speech, I was concerned about police matters and measures to prevent them. In my second, I was going to talk a little bit about the children's perspective. Children are never guilty of what their parents have done. This applies whether it is children of Nazis who have fought in Ukraine, children of IS-affiliated or any others. In the case of children who have grown up under these completely unreal circumstances where they have witnessed executions, rapes and torture, extraordinary efforts will be needed where these children come to Sweden. For the Green Party, we do not think that responsibility for the children who come back can only be handed over to the social services in each municipality. There will be a need for collective state-specific support with support measures depending on the individual case. None of these children can be left unattended. They have experienced things that no one should ever have to endure, least of all children. In the wake of the debate on returnees, it has emerged that the Constitution should be re-established and that Swedish citizenship should be withdrawn. It is not a proposal that solves anything in this situation because this is something that takes a long time to change. A constitutional change is not a haste but takes a long time to implement. The fact that it takes a long time is not in itself an argument, but this is not a good proposal, regardless of the time aspect. If people could get rid of citizenship, it would mean that they could become stateless, and that is something that would not make either Sweden or the world safer – rather the opposite. In cases where dual citizenship is involved, there is a risk of a situation in which countries compete to withdraw the citizenship of people who commit serious crimes first. This, too, would put us at risk a situation that would make the world more uncertain, and the value of citizenship would risk weakening. Madam President, I would like Adult Swedish citizens who return must be held accountable and sentenced. This can happen in Sweden, but there are advantages to the court proceedings being conducted in cooperation with other European countries. It can happen in the immediate area, but it can also happen in another place. The important thing is that there are legal consequences. Evidence collection is ongoing on site. Although this is not a simple process, it is absolutely necessary. The world has in the past managed to have such processes in difficult situations.
i-288ba148bd50293e-171	Madam President, I would like There are two ways of dealing with this debate. You can choose to only highlight each other's weaknesses or problems. In this debate, no one claims well that we do not have challenges when it comes to strengthening Sweden's security and our readiness to deal with terror that can affect Swedish citizens. Some of the posts, not least those from the Moderates, drew up a list of all the legislation that should come earlier: funding of terrorist travel, funding legislation, camera surveillance, data storage, signal reconnaissance, participation crimes, secret data reading. It is a rather exciting list, because these are the things we have agreed to do and are now implementing in a government position. There are those who say it should have gone even faster. Yes, but we could not have a law on participation offences before we came up with a law on signal reconnaissance. The Security Service cannot implement one legislation before the other. Then you turn off the light so that we do not have control of the threats that can be directed against Sweden. This is quite complicated, but we are working systematically on these issues, preferably in broad agreement to strengthen our legislation and tools against terrorist crimes. The polemical side of me might have wanted to say: Let's hear the Moderates' list of all the pieces of law you did and all the new tools you gave the police and the Security Service during your eight years of government. But I am not going to go because I do not think the debate will benefit. I think it would be better if the debate instead took on board what we agree on. There are a few things I still want to correct. The KD claimed that we voted against association for some kind of reasons of principle. After all, it was because we had legislation under way that we are now discussing here in Parliament. It is believed that the legislation is too weak in terms of penalties. But by the end of this month, there will be an investigator looking at the entire terrorist field in order to tighten the penalties. Let us discuss it in the same context. We have no problem tightening the penalties for terrorism.
i-288ba148bd50293e-176	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a great country, but I am very honest when I say that I am concerned about developments in this area. Sweden is the country in Europe where the per capita population is the most or perhaps the second most people who have gone to Iraq or Syria to participate in this atrocious terrorist cult. Yet we have legislation that is still not only lagging behind but is too toothless. We have made agreements; Mikael Damberg is quite right in that. The problem is that they have still not been implemented. A long series of things that the government itself put on the bill list last September have still not come up with any proposals. I realize that you can always blame a lot of things, perhaps even on previous governments. But it can well be said that this argument was stronger a few years ago than it is now. This government is in fact in its fifth year. At some point you may also have to take some personal responsibility for things. I think that the legislation that is now so slowly coming into place is good, but it is not enough. It is not enough for the police, to highlight the seriousness of the crime or to restore the victims of the crime, and, in fact, it is not, I believe, to strengthen confidence in the rule of law. That is why we have put forward a long series of further proposals to allow clandestine eavesdropping in the event of serious crimes involving terrorism, using preventive coercive measures, giving the Security Service the opportunity to call IS passengers to interrogation even when there is no investigation, etcetera. We also think that it would be reasonable for Sweden, like many other European countries, most recently Germany, to introduce an opportunity to withdraw the citizenship of the perpetrators of terrorist offences and thereby also facilitate expulsion. Why does the government insist on saying no to this?
i-288ba148bd50293e-181	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your contributions to the debate. However, I think there has been a lot of focus on, for example, a tribunal for war crimes committed in Syria and Iraq and very little focus on what we can do here and now to address the concerns that exist in society among our Swedish citizens and residents that we have 150 people who have already returned and walk freely on our streets, with a strained police and security police. They are also concerned about the 100 who may be on their way back to Sweden, something we know very little about. What do we want to do about them? That is where the very question of breaking is. How do we secure Sweden until we have a war tribute l in place and they can be judged there? What can we do about this now? The answer has been that we should have talks and de-radicalisation programs for those who have returned, on a voluntary basis. I believe, Madam President, that it is easier to de-radicalise Linda Westerlund Snecker to become a responsible national Swedish democrat than to de-radicalise one of these terrorists who has returned to Sweden and who are called the most radical by the Security Service. I do not think we will get a satisfactory response from the left side of the debate. These people must be detained immediately. They must be punished for participating in the Islamic State. They must be deprived of their Swedish citizenship and expelled from our country. It is the only way forward to secure our country for these IS terrorists. It is for the day only the Swedish Democrats who have put forward proposals on the table on this. Take what I've told you, and let it sink in! Before you take a final decision on the participation law later this year, weigh up the pros and cons very carefully.
i-288ba148bd50293e-185	Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I shall be very brief. It is clear that there is broad political agreement on the fight against terror. The terrorist agreement concluded between the Center Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals, the Green Party and the Social Democrats took important steps in the fight to combat terror. It is a pity that the agreement has not been implemented more quickly. It is clear, however, that after the situation we are experiencing, we need to take more and broader action than the terrorist agreement landed in. Some of these measures have been discussed here today. It is a piece of legislation that really counteracts terrorism, and we need legislation that makes it easier to judge for participation in and support for terror and radical organisations. But it is also a question of investing in the judiciary, which enables us to be equipped in the fight against terrorism.
i-288ba148bd50293e-188	Madam President, I would like Terrorism in the name of violent extremism is a major threat to democracy and free society. Every IS warrior will be investigated, prosecuted and convicted. If we begin to depart from international human rights conventions, we will create a breeding ground for IS to recruit new terrorists. I can't let that happen. That is why Sweden and the whole of Europe must stand by our human rights, that children in war are always victims and that children have fundamental rights that must never be violated. The question is also where will these children have the best chance of leaving extremism and terrorism behind – is it in war Syria or in Sweden? Prosecution of persons in Sweden is a better option than the release of these people in the absence of justice, and thus can infiltrate refugee flows that make their way to Europe, and carry out new acts of terror. We want countries to cooperate with getting people investigated and convicted, in Sweden, in The Hague or through a hybrid court. If an international tribunal can be established, it is a good thing, but it takes a long time, and we have a problem to deal with here and now. We must fight every day against dark forces that threaten democracy. We must stand up every day for human rights, the rule of law, humanism and solidarity. We must do this even today.
i-288ba148bd50293e-192	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking all the representatives of the parliamentary parties who have participated in the debate, Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg and also the Swedish Democrats, who have initiated this urgent debate. Unfortunately, however, we are forced to note that several important elements are missing that had made Sweden better prepared to face the threat of the returning IS terrorists and their sympathizers. For this, a great responsibility rests with the Red-Green Government. The news about IS-returns, the imprisoned IS-sympathisers and the realization that Sweden lacks a plan seems to have created chaos at the Government Office. It is good that the government has quickly begun to pursue the issue of an international tribunal in the EU, but it is remarkable that it did not even have time to anchor its line here in the Swedish Parliament. The government should have acted in the past, but instead it has failed in responsibility, and this means that Sweden is less equipped than many other EU countries. Social Democratic slowness is distressing and, unfortunately, threatens to risk ordinary people's freedom, security and security in Sweden. We Christian Democrats therefore call on the government to take greater foresight and action to face the threat of Islamic terror until Sweden has a new government in place, a government that the Swedish people deserve.
i-288ba148bd50293e-197	Madam President, I would like I am sure we will have to return to the subject of this debate. There will be a number of legislative dossiers in the future. I would like to thank the Swedish Democrats for initiating the debate. It is important, and that is how a real topical debate should be. Now that we have driven the twisted killer cult of melancholy people, a concoction of nationalities, on the run and on the defensive, we shall not believe that victory has been won forever. The problems will remain, and we must ensure that in Sweden – and this is the task of this Assembly – we have a sharp piece of legislation in place as soon as possible. We should also consider how we will continue to cooperate within the coalition of nations originating in NATO and EU countries that have made the killer cult now on its knees, at least temporarily. We should continue to cooperate internationally. For me as a Liberal, it is absolutely clear that we are doing this best together with other countries in general and in the European Union in particular. To stay out of cooperation in Europol or its part of terrorism, which works against terrorism with special intervention teams, would be to make Sweden very lonely. Now that we have an important debate ahead of us this spring about what Sweden is going to do in the European Union, it is the Liberals' conviction that this is precisely an important issue in which the European Union has every reason to step up and work more together, not less.
i-288ba148bd50293e-202	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank the participants for this debate. After the terrible terrorist attack on Ut ø ya outside Oslo in 2011, when a total of 77 people died, Prime Minister Stoltenberg gave a speech at the memorial service. I would like to quote a paragraph from that: In the midst of all the tragedy, I am proud to live in a country that has been able to stand upright in a critical time. I am impressed by how much dignity, care and strength I have met. We're a small country, but we're a proud people. We are still shaken by what has happened to us, but we never give up our values. Our answer is more democracy, more transparency and more humanity, but never naivety. ..................................................... These are words worth carrying. Our open societies are vulnerable, but at the same time they are robust, as long as we do not compromise with our values. It has been rallied about what are called fine principles. But the rule of law, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and democracy are not just fine principles, but that is what makes us what we really are – a democratic country. This is something we must defend even in cases where it is put to the test. With this, I would like to thank you very much for the debate.
i-288ba148bd50293e-209	Madam President, I would like I would also like to start by thanking you for the debate. Initially: Sweden has no plans to bring home IS terrorists. Already as a member of the UN Security Council, we pushed for an international tribunal. Joint international efforts are needed to bring justice. After the Second World War, after the war in the Balkans and after the genocide in Rwanda, new tribunals and trial procedures were established that came to play an important role in creating closure, restoration and justice. But right now there is also a terrible humanitarian situation in northern Syria that we must not turn a blind eye to. Sweden is one of the largest humanitarian donors to those affected by the conflict in Syria. At home, the Swedish Security Service cooperates with other authorities and international partners to prevent and investigate terrorist offences. For all people who have returned from the conflict in Syria and Iraq, individual assessments are made, and action is taken. Our courts have far-reaching powers to judge for violent crimes, including those committed abroad. The work of the Police Authority has been strengthened, and the Centre against violent extremism will contact all municipalities that receive any IS returnees. In cases where children are suspected of being in danger, authorities are already obliged to report their concerns. The Government is now also putting three new legislative proposals on Parliament's table. All contacts and participation in terrorist organisations are criminalised, and the Security Service and the NOA are given increased opportunities for signal intelligence. At the same time, police and security police will regain one of their most important tools through the new rules on data storage. At the end of the month, an investigator proposes further penalties for terrorism-related crime. The work for a safer Sweden will continue, preferably in broad political collaboration.
i-4G2SAQLjxJtoZLEpy7PFyp	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me the following questions about development time in paragraph 14 of the January Agreement: When will the reform be launched? How should criticisms that have been made be taken into account in the design of a free year? What is the expected cost, both the socio-economic and the fiscal, of the reform? Paragraph 14 of the January Agreement concerns strengthening the possibility of transition and improving the ability of employers to meet labour needs with the right training. The agreement states that development time for up to one year should be introduced from the budget proposal for 2020 in order to enable competence development in the individual. The Government Office is now preparing the issue of development time under the January Agreement. The cost of development time will depend on how the reform on development time is designed and defined.
i-RMco4y2MXjeam9HrRZcdQh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Madam President, I would like There is a social contract between the state and the Swedish people. The public service contract includes that the State must guarantee the functioning of its core business. It's about being able to drive on our roads, regardless of the weather. It is about getting care on time if you have a serious illness. It's about your kid getting a good schooling. It's about a break-in, if you're hit by it, being cleared up by the police. It's about your children having a dignified care for the elderly. In Dagens Nyheter, Madam President, we can read about Kim Svensson, who has a cp injury and who will have his personal assistance withdrawn. He says himself in the headline: My life is ruined. Madam President, I would like He says, "My life is ruined. We have also been able to read in Gefle Dagblad about Joel who will have his personal assistance halved. As a result, he will have to move back in with his parents. Madam President, I would like This government intends to introduce a free year. The free year has been tested in Sweden once before. Madam President, I would like So the government intends to pay adult people to be free at someone else's expense. It is a reform whose cost is estimated at 1-10 billion. It is a pure siesta policy, Madam President. There are many social problems in Sweden, but that adult people should be free at someone else's expense to, for example, take an education in fly fishing is actually completely unreasonable. It is also criticised by all serious players in the labour market. If we add another reform that the government plans to make – family week – the policy of the whole government is basically a siesta policy. It is no secret, Madam President, that I have been critical of subsidizing electric bicycles during the last parliamentary term. It was a contribution that went to the big cities, where it was possible to use the subsidy. In the budget from the Moderates and KD adopted by the Riksdag, we removed that subsidy. Instead, we used the money to restore the LSS, so that those who need personal assistance will get it. Breathing aids and probe feeding shall be considered as basic needs. Madam President, I would like It is therefore important that a government prioritises the core activities of society or that one has some idea of how well-being in Sweden will develop. Giving adults time off at a cost of 1 to 10 billion is not the right money to spend. In addition, Madam President, it is a view of the human being who assumes that every human being is interchangeable and that someone else can automatically do your job. Madam President, I would like Of course, this is not how the labour market works; each person is unique. Every person is needed in the workplace. That is what the labour market looks like today. I think that the response from the Government is remarkable in that it does not claim to know what this reform will cost. That means you have to go to the investigation that exists. Just as the Government said in its answer, it depends on how it is designed. At least it's about 1 billion. It could be up to 10 billion. This government also allows Joel in Hedesunda to move back home to his parents because he has his personal assistance halved. Madam President, I would like That cannot be the right priority.
i-288ba148bd50293e-243	Madam President, I would like I am perhaps a little surprised that we are getting into a discussion about electric bicycles and personal assistance. Both things can be discussed, but that is not what the interpellation was about. The intervention concerned the proposal to introduce development time for skills development. I've answered. The government will come back in the forthcoming budget bill with the preparation of the proposal and then, of course, also provide cost estimates for the proposal. The government has no plans to introduce a free year.
i-288ba148bd50293e-246	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is, of course, a game of words. Giving adult people time off is a free year. Then you can call it a development guarantee or a free year – yes, the government can call it what it wants. It is clear that it is relevant, even in a debate about giving adults time off, to highlight how the government prioritises. This is extremely relevant in this debate as well. What, for example, did LO say the last time you had a parole? I Googled a little bit and got some good quotes. Swedish employment agencies should be involved in the provision of jobs. They should not be engaged in passing free passages. That's what the metal base said at the time. The problem is not that people want time off. The problem is that people want a job, said Building then chairman. I have not seen any LO-affiliation that was positive when it was tested last time in 2005, and then the free year cost about 2 billion. When you look at what the parties have said about the release they are planning to introduce now, you can see that LO is critical. It is not believed that LO members will be able to use the free year. You can also look at what small businesses say. They say quite correctly: who will replace me? So it is a very large billion-dollar cost of little use. It does not solve society's problems, and that is the connection to my criticism. SVT has a story now about a robbery wave against children in Hägersten. These are some of the headlines: This is how it goes up and down, and yet the relevant question must be: How do we get a better justice system in Sweden by introducing a free year? How do we get more police officers from the possibility of development leave? Isn't it better that the police are out fighting crime, Madam President? (Andre VICE TALMANNEN: I would like to remind the honourable Member to stick to the subject of the debate. )
i-288ba148bd50293e-257	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your comment. It is important to discuss knife robbery, beatings and reinforcements of the judiciary. But it is not the subject of this interpellation debate. I am here to answer the questions of Members of Parliament, and so am I. I got a question about development time and have answered it. No free year the government has no plans to introduce.
i-288ba148bd50293e-259	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Government does not want to answer the question of how free years or development leave provide more police officers or better combat crime. I fully understand that. However, I also believe that the Government is well aware that the evaluations of the previous year of freedom showed disaster. It cost billions. It gave lower pay to the person who had had the free year. It was a vacation experiment that certainly wasn't free. If you now, together with the family week, intend to move forward and introduce a development leave or a free year – you can call it what you want – I really hope that it is designed in such a way that it does not harm the Swedish economy as we enter a recession. I think – although Madam President has a different view – that my criticism is extremely relevant, namely that the government should, of course, prioritise labour market policy and a business policy that makes the economy grow in Sweden and that tax revenues increase. The state shall prioritise its core business.
i-288ba148bd50293e-261	Madam President, I would like I conclude this somewhat strange interpellation debate by being surprised, however, that Lars Beckman sees no difference between leave and education. I think many others perceive such a difference.
i-288ba148bd50293e-262	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what steps I am prepared to take to satisfy Parliament's announcement of an immediate decision to order the quantity and type of ammunition transferred to France. The Swedish Defence Materiel Administration has replaced the Swedish Armed Forces with new ammunition in accordance with the government's authorisation from 2016 through the replacement of the one sold to France. This was carried out in 2017 and was completed in 2018. I therefore do not intend to take any further action.
i-288ba148bd50293e-264	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for the short and relatively concise answer to my interpellation! The reason for my question is that I have not seen any official information that the ammunition sold to France has been recovered. The Committee on Defence has received information by letter 75 that the Government has authorised the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration to do so. This, Madam President, is therefore in danger of becoming a rather short interpellation debate, but before I am satisfied, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence, for the sake of clarity, the following question: has the purchase been made with the quantity and number of ammunition sold to France? A yes or no is more than enough.
i-288ba148bd50293e-267	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Mr Widman thinks he has received a relatively concise answer. That's a good mark. I can also say that we have followed Parliament's announcement. The Government reported that the Government had decided that the sales revenue had to be disposed of by the Swedish Armed Forces for the acquisition of material equivalent to the material sold and that the Swedish Armed Forces had commissioned FMV to procure equipment. This is clear from letter 75, and it is the government's assessment that the parliamentary announcement is thus finalised. The opinion and handling by the government then moved on to the handling of the Constitutional Committee, where the Defence Committee had given its opinion. I read through the opinion of the Committee on Defence, and in this context there was nothing to say that there were any objections to the handling of ammunition. This is being returned to the Swedish Armed Forces to the same extent that we once disposed of equipment and that France received. It is therefore restored and restored, and that is my message to Allan Widman today. This has been done according to all the existing regulations and decision-making conditions, and I have followed them with accuracy.
i-288ba148bd50293e-272	Madam President, I would like I am grateful to the Minister for Defence for developing the circumstances surrounding this replacement, and I have also taken note of letter 75. Nevertheless, for the sake of clarity, I would be grateful if the question I raised at the end of my previous speech could be answered in a simple and clear way. The question was: Has the quantity and number sold back to France been replaced? It would be easy for the Minister of Defence to remove even the slightest doubt that may remain on this issue.
i-288ba148bd50293e-275	Madam President, I would like The matter is restored in the amount intended in view of the amount delivered to France. It is thus restored in the way it was originally intended. There is like no doubt or problem in this, Widman. It is fully restored and implemented according to the authorizations. You don't have to worry about anything else but can sleep quietly at night, if that's your problem. We have followed the book in this, so this is settled according to all the rules of art.
i-288ba148bd50293e-277	Madam President, I would like There is nothing much wrong with my night sleep, despite politically turbulent times in my party. I have listened carefully to what the Minister for Defence says, and I have asked a question that can be answered by a yes or no. It does not seem, however, that I have managed to obtain such an answer from the Minister for Defence today, but I would nevertheless like to thank him for the debate.
i-288ba148bd50293e-279	Madam President, I would like I really have only one thing to say, namely that the equipment is restored.
i-288ba148bd50293e-280	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I and the government intend to strengthen the police's powers to combat the violent progress of animal rights activists. The interpeller has also asked whether I intend to act to deal with the consequences of the threats and harassment that people are facing today. Magnus Oscarsson has asked Minister Morgan Johansson if the government intends to initiate organisational or liability changes within the law enforcement authorities in order to combat animal-right-motivated crime more effectively. Furthermore, the interpeller asks whether the government intends to initiate legislative changes with a view to increasing the protection of individuals against animal-righted crime. The questions have been left to me to answer. First of all, I would like to emphasise that we cannot accept that, in order to achieve political ends, someone is destroying or stealing someone else's property, or at worst, other people are harming. This has no place in a democracy. Sweden should be a safe country to live in for everyone. We cannot tolerate people being subjected to threats and harassment. Society must work on these issues on a broad front. Moreover, those who commit these criminal acts against farmers, among others, jeopardise the purposeful work for the strengthening of animal welfare by serious organisations and farmers. Traders must, of course, be able to carry out their activities without being exposed to harassment, threats, vandalism or other criminal acts. The government has taken a number of measures to ensure that this type of crime, involving farmers, is effectively dealt with by the judiciary, both in terms of legislation and resources. The legislative measures proposed by the government may give our authorities a better chance of combating crime. Furthermore, they can contribute to greater security for individuals. This is, for example, a new camera surveillance team that entered into force on 1 August 2018, where the general authorisation requirement previously applied to camera surveillance has been abolished. The new Camera Protection Act means that camera surveillance in connection with, among other things, agricultural activities will now be able to be carried out without permission. Furthermore, on 1 July 2017, the minimum penalty for grossly illegal threats was increased. The same date also made changes to the law on the crime of vandalism. Among other things, the scale of severe damage was tightened to prison for a minimum of six months and a maximum of six years. The government has also recently announced measures to increase security and combat crime. One of the government's priorities is to strengthen police work so that more police officers can fight crime and increase security for all. The major investment now being made at the Police Authority is central. Effective law enforcement requires resources, and this effort must, of course, benefit the whole country. I have talked to the police authorities about this type of crime and received information about how the agency works. It is important that the Police Authority has relevant tools to be able to work successfully against the crimes. I know that the police authorities are taking the problems seriously and that the agency is cooperating with the Security Service. I also intend to have a continued dialogue with the LRF and other stakeholders.
i-288ba148bd50293e-287	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. A young mother with her baby was awakened in the middle of the night. The husband was away on a job, as he always was during the weeks. In the kitchen window lit a car with the lights. Around Santa's house, unknown people crept up. Out of fear, the young mother called the neighbor, who went out and ran into a bunch of cocky people who claimed their right to the public. Families living in the area felt that people were moving around the corner for a long time, night after night, evening after night, evening after night. Unknown people behaved in an offensive, disturbing and frightening way. There were no direct crimes, but they gave rise to strong discomfort and indirect threat. In many other cases there are direct crimes. We're talking about murder threats, arson, persecution and a lot of other horrors. In a democracy, you can think what you want, but you must not behave in any way. If you commit crimes, there must be consequences. There are autonomous groups that are both very active in social media and go country and country around and go from carrying out illegal acts to spreading only discomfort and fear around them. In fact, Madam President, that must be enough! We can see that organised civil disobedience has become a gateway to organised crime in rural areas. The Government mentioned some efforts in its response, such as camera surveillance. That's good. But somewhere the behaviour and all other insecurity that spreads around Sweden are normalized. We can't have it like that. This type of crime needs to be taken more seriously, and penalties need to be tightened up. The protection of our democracy and freedom to conduct a business requires better protection and national coordination of such threats and crimes. The government mentioned that he has spoken to the Police Department. What's going on? I believe that the police need a clear mission to coordinate the work of animal terrorism across the country in order to overcome the problem of so many cases of this kind being closed. It is obviously not easy, Madam President, when the crimes are spread across the country and the activists mask themselves, deny that they have been on the ground and blame each other. Many of them will not be prosecuted. They will not be punished, even though it is a crime. Families, businesses and the existence of food security are now threatened by the elimination of the principles of democracy by people who believe that they are above democracy and the law. Here the government has failed. Now you need to take responsibility for this serious issue. Sweden needs action now. In order to further strengthen and support the police in their mission, you need to investigate whether animal rights terrorism should not have its own criminal harassment. How does the Government feel about that?
i-RQNrPAPyfk9m7M1Q5y2RFr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Mikael Damberg, for your answer! In recent times we have been able to take part in the media in a sharp increase in animal rights-related crime targeting mainly animal owners in agriculture. One in four farmers claims to be afraid of being threatened or attacked by criminal activists. The threats and harassment have increased enormously in recent years. The threats are presented in social media, via telephone and face-to-face when activists make their way to farms. The purpose of the threats is to get the farmers to shut down their businesses. In times when profitability is low and many farmers have had a hard time getting their businesses to go around, this is also now that farmers are being threatened. Why? Well, they produce food for us consumers so we don't have to starve. Me and the Christian Democrats organised Milk Day in Parliament last week. Part of the discussion was about the threat to the dairy farmers. It is terrible to hear the stories of events that have affected the peasants, their families and their loved ones. Does the Minister think that the government has done enough to put an end to the threats to the peasants?
i-288ba148bd50293e-300	Madam President, I would like I too should like to begin by thanking the Minister for the reply he has given to Alexandra Anstrell on this issue. I have been standing in this House debating animal-right-related crime many times in recent years, and that is why I want to go up in the chair and do it now too. We have a new minister in a new position in this, and I think the question is interesting. We have also seen that this type of crime is escalating and increasing. Slowly but surely it escalates. We also see an increase in concentration in some parts of the country, due to the fact that this crime is nationally synchronised. They act nationally and send out – usually very young – people in different parts of the country to carry out these kinds of actions. People are being gathered for the good cause, but the problem is that they are attacking the free business community in Sweden. This is one way of attacking a society at large. That's why I choose to use the concept of animal rights terrorism, trying to disrupt activities and production branches. It can be about hunting and livestock farming, but it can also be about skin production. Either way, this is behaviour that is totally unacceptable in a society. My colleagues have asked the Minister a number of questions, and I am interested in the answers to them. I know that the Minister and the Minister's colleagues have taken a number of initiatives to cooperate with various interest groups and have had talks with those entrepreneurs who have been vulnerable, but I wonder how long-term work is being done to prevent this type of crime. Above all, I wonder how to target young people in secondary schools. It is about young people who join this type of organisation with a basically good motive and who are then lured into crime, just as young people are tricked into other types of crime that we see around society. On the whole, this is a behavior that a society can never accept.
i-288ba148bd50293e-306	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important discussion, the interpellants and others! I am just as upset about and committed to this issue as the interpellants. For I see this as an expression of politically motivated crime in the sense that one has a political view that one somehow puts out over individual people's security, in the worst case in the form of vandalism or that it physically affects someone who operates – legal activities that we need to live in Sweden, such as food production. It is therefore important that we take this seriously. I also share the view that it is worrying that this is being mixed up. There is, of course, animal activism that is perfectly legal and politically motivated and for which I have great respect. It discusses animal rights and how to achieve a higher level of protection by democratic means. On the other hand, with regard to those who carry out criminal activities, it is something quite different, and to draw the line so that young people are not drawn into any form of fake radicality that leads to crime is an incredibly important issue. I believe that this type of activity risks damaging the work that Sweden has done on good animal husbandry and long-term work on these issues. It risks damaging both some organisations that are not behind criminal activities but also farmers who feel that it is not worth working on because they get criticism even though they take the issues seriously. This is therefore a dangerous type of crime, from a number of points of view. Several questions were asked, and there are some questions that I would rather not go into very deep. I understand that there will soon be an interpellation debate with Morgan Johansson, which will deal more specifically with what legal obstacles exist for the future, as well as the criminal code rubmentation. It is not the government that sets the crime codes, but it is done by others. We do not usually want politics to do so, that is, to go in and decide exactly how it is to be defined. That is the answer to that question, but it will come back to that in the debate with Morgan Johansson. On the other hand, on the question of how the police prioritise this, I raised it during my first meeting with the chief police officer. There were not very many issues on the agenda, but I raised the issue because I had become aware of it. As a newly appointed minister, I would have been aware that we had had a dialogue with, not least, the LRF, which has mentioned that this is a problem for the whole sector and its members. So I brought it up with the chief of police, and he explained how the police view this. The police take this kind of crime seriously. It was also reported that in Western Sweden, where the highest concentration of this type of crime exists, the work has been organized in a new way. It is perceived that the new approach is good and leads to both better investigations and higher levels of knowledge. There is also work to try to get a system in place nationally so that the motives and connections are really indicated when the crimes are reported. It's about the police getting to know if there are things associated with crime. What the police also told me-- I'm a little new on this issue-- is that there are a few individuals who make up the most criminal animal rights activists. However, they are very organized. So it is not that there are huge numbers of people in charge of the operation, but rather that this crime goes down when these people are in prison – as they have done in different rounds. When the people come out, crime appears to be on the increase. This is something that both the police and the Security Service are aware of, that is, there are individuals who seem to have more ability than others to organise this type of activity. I would like to continue a dialogue with those of you who are involved and with the organisations representing not least farmers, so that we do what we can to tackle this – as I see it – serious form of crime.
i-288ba148bd50293e-315	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the clarification. "You never feel safe," says a farmer to the Gothenburg Post. Michael Verdicchio, GP's dig reporter who has done the review that resulted in a number of reports, says that in his review he has seen everything from landscaped fires and intrusion into people's homes to vandalism and, above all, harassment and murder threats. Madam President, I would like You have to feel safe at home. Ownership is constitutionally protected and must be respected. No one should have to worry that there are people around the corner or in the courtyard when you go to bed at night. Moreover, if infringements are now made on farms, there must be tougher legal sanctions. Does the government do anything about this? The authorities and the government must take this seriously and take it down hard, for the sake of our security and for the sake of our democracy. I've said it before, and I'm saying it again: you can think differently, but you can't act any different. There are many both known and unknown cases where people have been exposed, and the methods of animal rights terrorists are in many cases horribly. It is not reasonable for anyone to have to be exposed to this. In addition, the victim spends an enormous amount of time on everything from police reporting to considering whether what he is doing is worth it. Crimes against keepers of animals, politicians, hunters and their families are becoming more and more widespread, but police reports are often closed. The example from West Sweden that the Minister talks about is good, but this needs to happen all over Sweden. For example, we can read in the media about a farmer who has been subjected to 78 acts but where no one has been convicted. Madam President, I would like I believe that, in the long term, this threatens the whole of the Swedish countryside. This threatens both the sense of responsibility for ethical husbandry and the sense of responsibility for our nature that has been built up throughout our country for generations. Do the Government and the Government intend to act to deal with the consequences of threats and harassment for the people who are being exposed today?
i-288ba148bd50293e-321	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. Over the last three years, more than 200 crimes have been reported, and then we know that there is also a large number of dark spots because many farmers are afraid to report the threats. Unfortunately, reports have been systematically closed by the police, because the police themselves say that they lack the resources to investigate them. As notifications are not investigated, uncertainty in the Swedish countryside increases. Several people I have spoken to even say: Why call the police when they may not come anyway? The presence of the police, if at all, is further drained as police resources are increasingly focused on metropolitan areas. In a response to an interpellation from me at the end of 2017, the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs told me that the government would strengthen the police by SEK 2 billion for 2018. In response to another interpellation from me, in April 2018, the minister told me that the government had announced a historic initiative on the Police Authority and that this initiative would benefit the whole country. So my question to the Minister is: what year will people in rural areas notice from what the government has been talking about for years, that is, more police officers in rural areas?
i-288ba148bd50293e-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It seems to me that we have a rather common picture of problems in terms of how things look out there with this. I feel that the government has actually taken a step forward in examining where the problems lie and what the situation looks like. Then, unfortunately, I think there's a bigger picture out there that we don't really know. We know that there are very many keepers who do not dare to report today. They don't dare report it to the police because it's a public document. They risk further harassment and threats, not only against themselves and against their companies, but also against their relatives. Through the reporting that has been done, we have proof that you go to the relatives of the keeper and that you go to the accountants and others who are in the vicinity of the entrepreneur. In this way it gets so much bigger. I think there is a small problem in the handling of these types of cases concerning whether it is a police matter, a rural issue or a legal issue. As a result, several ministers and ministries are involved. Here is a great responsibility for the government to come back with a comprehensive solution to the problem – not for the sake of the cause or for the government's sake, but for the entrepreneurs and for the farmers who are in the midst of this swamp of threats. A week ago I met Malin, who is chairman of Sweden's rabbit breeder. She testified about a situation where as a mother she suffers from people threatening inside her own property. I want her to feel safe at work and at home. I wonder if the Minister thinks that in the countryside you can trust that the police will come when you call.
i-288ba148bd50293e-330	Madam President, I would like I will start with the discussion on complaints. I think it is incredibly important that we in this House together are very clear that crimes should be reported. It is essential for the police to be able to do their job and for the police to investigate crimes and prosecute people. But it is also important to get an overall picture. If you can't see links between different activities of this type, we've lost some of the tools to solve this. This occurs in connection with various criminal cases where there are discussions that people do not want to or dare to report a crime. However, I think it is incredibly important that we stand up for the principle that this is important, because otherwise we ourselves and others will be more affected. As so-called police minister, it is important for me to help the police get the necessary evidence to deal with this. The second issue was more about police presence and capacity. Indeed, in recent years the police have been forced into almost unreasonable priorities because the police organisation has been too weak. There have been too few employees, which has meant that there has not been a sufficiently strong presence throughout the country. The past few years have meant that the addition that is now growing in the police force in many ways has ended up in the most vulnerable areas, not least linked to shootings. I fully understand whether the police at the moment feel that the increase that people are talking about has not been seen, but the increase has occurred in some places that were very exposed to crime. I have travelled a great deal as a new Minister of the Interior, and there has hardly been any area where there has been no discussion about how the new resources should be allocated. What's the most effective effect? Where do we get the most effect from an effective police organization when the new aspirants come out into this organization? At the same time, more civil servants are also hired to help with some of the investigation work to relieve the police so that they can be out. One of the top priorities of the chief police officer with the new organisation and with the growing plan for 10 000 more employees that the chief police officer is working on is to have a better local presence across the country. This is also something that the government will follow up very closely. That is one of the reasons why we are now making historic investments in the police, both this year and in the coming years. There have been discussions about the fact that the Security Service is not involved in this work at all, and I would like to do so. When I talk to the police, I hear that they cooperate with the Security Service on matters where they consider it necessary. It is about the link with more politically motivated activities and about certain individuals or groupings that they want to be able to follow in the investigation phase. A basic condition that is a bit boring in the interpellation debate is that I want first and foremost to have confidence that the police and the Security Service are making the right assessments as to what efforts are to be made and how the work is to be organised and carried out. My attitude is, at least until I am disproved, that I want to give the police and the Security Service the chance to do their job without me going to direct their work. They have said that they take this seriously. I will follow the question, but exactly how to organize the work I actually think the Police Authority is better than I am at deciding.
i-288ba148bd50293e-342	Madam President, I would like It is good to discuss these matters today. We also seem to agree that this is a major problem. My colleague Åsa Coenraads mentioned earlier that it is good that the government has done some things. And sure, that's great. But I actually think we need to do quite a lot more. We Moderates want more cops. Increased local presence and better national coordination are important. Neither entrepreneurs nor individuals exposed to crime should have to feel their priorities removed.
i-288ba148bd50293e-345	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the interesting discussion we have had on this. I feel, like the Government, that it is incredibly important that we discuss and discuss this. I also agree with my other colleagues. We can see that the government is taking this seriously, but I would like to highlight a few points. We are seeing an increase in criminal activism and terrorism, which affects both people who work in agriculture as hunters and hunters who have protective hunting. My picture, Minister, is that measures and legislative proposals are urgent. A proposal for a measure may be that farmyards at farm buildings are seen as fenced-in industrial areas – then this would be illegal intrusion.
i-288ba148bd50293e-350	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for this interpellation debate. It is important to me, and it is important for the Riksdag to keep an eye on these issues. We saw a decline in animal activism for a few years, but in recent years we have seen an increase again. It is incredibly important to follow this and to make effective efforts. I will continue to have a dialogue with the Police Authority on this, and I can guarantee that there will be increased resources. This is one of the largest spending areas, and it will grow. Today it is the largest authority, but the target is 10 000 more police employees. This is a sharp increase which means that the police are not forced to impose unreasonable priorities between different types of crime. I believe that it is necessary in Sweden to increase security and to tackle crime. I will also have a continued dialogue with some of the organisations that have been active on these issues to listen and learn more. I believe that we have a joint responsibility to ensure that we make a huge difference between this type of criminal activism, which should not be allowed in Sweden, and young people's commitment to animal rights or whatever it may be. There are two different things, and there is a very clear line between them. You should understand that you cross a very dangerous line when you take this step and maybe engage in criminal activities. We have a common responsibility to be very clear about this. I look forward to continuing to participate in this discussion and to contributing to the work. I also look forward to the work of the police in this area – hopefully – bearing fruit.
i-288ba148bd50293e-356	Madam President, I would like Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked me whether the government intends to go beyond what the EU weapons directive requires in terms of the regulation of legal arms owners and what the government intends to do to simplify the regulatory framework for legal arms owners. Mikael Strandman has asked me how a much stricter implementation of the EU amending directive to the arms directive than the EU requires will reduce the use of weapons in serious crime. Mikael Strandman has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the rules proposed are indeed justified, objectively illustrated and will have the intended effect without unnecessarily making it difficult for legal weapons users to pursue their hobbies. For a long time, Sweden has had arms legislation that maintains a high international standard. It therefore already meets in many respects the requirements of the amending directive. Due to several major terrorist attacks that occurred in 2015, the update of the EU Weapons Directive was accelerated. The purpose of the amending Directive is to counter, in a proportionate manner, the misuse of firearms for criminal activities or terrorist attacks. The amending directive provides us with a common minimum level in the EU for, among other things, the marking, registration and storage of firearms. Already during the negotiations of the directive, the government was actively working to ensure that the new rules would not be unduly burdensome for hunters and target-shooters. Even in the implementation of the Directive in Swedish legislation, the focus has been on the fact that the new rules will cause as little inconvenience as possible to hunters and target-shooters. However, Sweden – like all other EU countries – is, of course, obliged to implement the changes necessary to meet the requirements of the amending directive. The government's starting point in the legislative referral has been that the amendments are implemented at a minimum level, i.e. the proposals should not go beyond what the directive requires. In addition to the implementation of the amending directive, work is under way within the Ministry of Justice to prepare the proposals made by an investigator to simplify the legal arms owners. Among other things, the proposals provide for relief in the authorisation requirement for silencers and for the so-called armaments closet to be extended.
i-288ba148bd50293e-364	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for the answer, although I cannot feel completely satisfied, and that makes me even more charged for the debate. In the last sentence of the penultimate paragraph of the written reply from the Minister for the Interior, it says this: a government's starting point in the Council of Law referral has been that the amendments are implemented at a minimum level, i.e. the proposals should not go beyond what the directive requires. In view of how the sentence is formulated, it feels like the continuation is hanging in the air a little bit. The government's starting point has been that the changes are carried out at a minimum level, but if the government had meant it, I think the choice of words would have been different. The starting point has been that the changes are implemented at a minimum level, but there is something hanging in the air. I will read from the Swedish Hunting magazine on 11 June 2018, where ministers Morgan Johansson and Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht said this: The government will not introduce rules that hamper Swedish hunters' possession of weapons. Instead, we want to simplify. A little further down in the same debate article it says: a statement has recently been made by the opposition that the government intends to introduce rules that make it difficult for hunters and sportsmen unnecessarily, even though it is not required by the new EU weapons directive. The claim is completely unfounded. Rather, it is the opposite – we intend to simplify the regulatory framework for the legal arms owners. ..................................................... If this is consistent with the truth, why have I been contacted in the matter by the Swedish Hunters' Association, the Hunters' Association, active sportsmen and owners of hunting and arms stores who claim that the government does exactly the opposite. Have they all interpreted the referral wrong? The interesting thing is that if they have done so, everyone who has contacted me, without exception, has interpreted it in the same way and interpreted the same error. Is that really reasonable? In addition, a majority of the consultation bodies have been very critical of the conclusions and proposals that the investigation has reached. For example, it is a question of moving some semi-automatic rifles and pistols to category A, which is the category of armaments. So guns and rifles are compared with missiles and cruise missiles. It's about time-limited weapons licenses. The EU requires no more than a check on the arms licence holder at least every five years. But in Sweden we have day-to-day controls of all arms owners. They're checked against criminal records and suspicions every day. We are incredibly controlled as Swedish gun owners. It is a question of regulating warehouse holdings, thus introducing a licence obligation. Then the rule is extended to weapons for cantan-fired ammunition, which the Arms Directive does not require. The Government addressed the fight against serious b rott and terrorism, and it is very important that we work against this. But these rules will not lead to less terrorism in the world around us, unfortunately, because what you are going on here is law-abiding gun owners' arms management. After all, they use only the legal weapons, and legal weapons are not used in terrorist crimes. It has been established in investigations for several years that 1.2 legal weapons are used in serious crimes in Sweden per year. It is negligible that 1.2 legal weapons are used in terrorist crimes when there are more than 600 000 arms owners in Sweden and 3 million weapons licenses. This is shooting sparrows with cannons, I'd say.
i-288ba148bd50293e-373	Madam President, I would like I would also vote in favour of this bill if you actually included in it the terrible deals with killings and everything. But the fact is, that's exactly what you're not doing. There's not even any correlation in between. As I said, there are over 2 million legal weapons in Sweden today. One to two of these are used in every major crime every year. In other words, it is less than a millionth chance that a legal weapon should be used for serious crime. There is a reason why criminals do not use legal weapons in their settlements and what they are doing. It is that there is traceability; you do not want to leave a business card at the crime scene. In addition, the legal hunting weapons and sporting weapons are unwieldy and ineffective. Should there be a rough grängkriminell and wave with an elk bouncer or a saloon rifle with some extra cartridges in it, he would be laughed at. It is also a question of respect in criminal environments. The prices of high-speed military weapons and weapons of war have gone down enormously. In the 80s I read in Aftonbladet or was it that an AK4 cost over 100,000 in the criminal circles. But after the EU entry, the collapse of the whole Soviet Union and the war in former Yugoslavia, illegal weapons of war have flowed into Sweden. There's trucks coming in with guns. This means that today you can get a 20 000 Kalashnikov in Malmö. If you pay a little more, you can get a box of hand grenades as well. Why, then, would a criminal want to use legal weapons when, at almost the same price, a highly effective weapon of war can be obtained? A Kalashnikov, who scares everything and everyone, goes through anything. It goes through cars and walls. You can't hide anywhere. That's why criminals will choose this type of weapon. I think you want to do this because you want to act energetically, because the shootings are a huge problem in society today. But I don't think the Swedes are so stupid that they fall for this. We all know what's going on. We know that it is illegal weapons from Eastern Europe that create these problems. If you want to be honest and do something for the citizens and the families affected, because there are many tragedies that have taken place, then impose much tougher penalties for the possession and smuggling of illegal weapons and spend much more resources on border controls at the Öresund Bridge and our ferry locations. Then you will do something that will have an effect.
i-288ba148bd50293e-379	Madam President, I would like I am entering this debate with a different perspective. About six years ago, I started hunting. I haven't had any fun with it before, even though I have relatives who have been wearing me for many years and thought I should start hunting. The hunt I'm most stuck for is wild boar hunting. This is linked, among other things, to the fact that we in my locality Bohuslän have quite big problems with pigs that destroy land. When it comes to the arms directive, there is a conflict of interest here. Of course, we should try to fight criminal weapons as much as we can, and I believe that everyone in this House agrees on that. But the concern that exists among many of us who are active hunters is that there is now a regulatory framework that clashes with interest. One of the clear interests that governments, hunters' associations and many others have agreed on is that we must increase the shooting of wild boars. As I said, I hunt wild boars and think it's an exciting game to hunt because night hunting is a completely different kind of hunting than much other hunting. There are some positive aspects to what is now coming, such as having silencers, which makes it easier. I personally have little point of view, but of course it makes it easier if I can have different weapons to switch between. But when it comes to fixed lighting, I'm not allowed to put on my green light when I go out hunting. On the other hand, I'm allowed to turn on the green light when I've shot an animal. So I'm not going to avoid shooting it, but I'm going to have to shoot it first and then use green lights. Of course, as a hunter, you find it a little strange. Other technologies available today are different forms of night vision without military class but with a high enough class to be able to hunt safely as the pig is a nocturnal animal. Nor can I use this in any way, even though I would like to do so. More worrying is the fact that you are attacking semi-automatic weapons. For my part, I have previously hunted with a classic rifle, to be reloaded. It'll take a long time. A pig that makes an outcome can come up at very high speeds in a short time. Then a semi-automatic weapon is a life insurance policy. I don't know how many people read about the poor man in Skaraborg who got his thigh up, not long ago. There are a number of protections that a hunter can have: semi-automatic weapons, the right trousers, solid green lights and sensible night vision. However, the use of several of these is made more difficult, and some are not allowed until hunting. As far as the legislation is concerned, I would like the government to decide a little bit. If you want to increase the hunting of wild boars, we hunters must have sensible tools. As far as I know, there have been no robberies with semi-automatic hunting weapons. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude my speech by warmly welcoming the Government to Bohuslän. I'd love to take him out on a night hunt. If we are lucky, we may take such a boar as I took a while ago: It was as big as me, weighed 130 kilos and had a decimeter long tusk. Then I think the government understands why you want a half machine when the boar makes an outcome. I and many with me are concerned that the government is making it difficult for us to protect ourselves and also for us to live up to Parliament's desire to increase the shooting of pigs.
i-288ba148bd50293e-389	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson for a good and important interpellation and the Government for the answer. However, I also wonder about the Government's response that the proposal would not go beyond what the directive requires. I've been contacted by hundreds of hunters and sportsmen... ordinary, honest people who like their sport and their recreational interest. Most of the comments received concern the classification of semi-automatic bullets and the licensing of magazine and kerb ammunition. I have a simple question: how does the Government explain how it interprets the referral so differently, and is there not reason to clarify it?
i-288ba148bd50293e-392	Madam President, I would like It is not a simple matter to come in and take responsibility as a new minister. There are so many details in this that require some reading, and I have really tried to read so that we will have a good debate. There are several different issues, and here hunting issues are mixed with the implementation of the directive. My ambition and that of the government is to make this directive as narrow as possible and not to deal with all the issues but only with those we have to deal with with with this European directive. Let me go back a little bit in time. In April 2017, we commissioned Åberg, one of Sweden's foremost arms lawyers, to analyse what changes needed to be made to Swedish legislation in order to implement the directive. You know that we had worked on the directive and tried to lobbe so that it would be as good as possible for Sweden and at the same time meet the requirements. We gave explicit instructions to the investigator to submit only proposals that were necessary because of the directive. When the investigator came up with his proposal, we sent it out for a referral for three months, and everyone had comments. We and the lawyers discovered that it was possible to make some minor adjustments and yet meet the requirements of the directive, including the fact that not all weapons warehouses proposed by the investigator needed to be included. So we found a hatch where we could screw the proposal. The problem for the government and, by extension, the Riksdag is that this directive would have been implemented on 14 September 2018. However, we have passed that date. Because of the transitional government and other things, we have not been able to act. This means that the Commission can come back to us in an infringement case. We have already been notified and said that we want to know how things are going, and if we do not have a good enough answer, we can quickly get high fines. This is a one-off amount of SEK 40 million and then a periodic penalty payment of SEK 16 million per month if we do not implement what the directive requires. I am perfectly honest when I say that we do not want to over-implement the directive, but it is legally rather delicate how to do it. I hope that those of you who have points of view are not just spreading concern. There are many hunters who feel that they cannot interpret the text of the law and then hear something and believe that it is, and then worry is created. We have been in contact with, for example, the Hunters' Association, and they have had some point of view but think that we are implementing this in accordance with what the directive requires. There are things that affect the hunters but not very much. On the other hand, sportsmen are in a slightly worse position because of the way in which the directive is designed. That's a pretty objective truth. If you are concrete with something that you want to change, I want to understand it. I am anxious to meet the requirements of the directive so that we can implement this as soon as possible. Otherwise, we will have to pay, and it will affect areas of expenditure for legal certainty and security. We do not want that, because this money is needed by the police, the Security Service and so on. This is my honest starting point. So to a few errors in the debate. Sometimes it is claimed that weapons warehouses are banned. No, they don't. Sometimes they say the government has reclassified weapons. The annex to the directive states that the EU reclassifies weapons, so the government has not reclassified any weapons. So it is the EU that is forcing us to reclassify weapons. The directive requires a review. But we have our own system, isn't that enough? No, unfortunately not, because the arms directive requires a review of all post-authorisation requirements, including the purpose.
i-288ba148bd50293e-402	Madam President, I would like I have been in contact with lawyers on this issue. Some of them say that, based on what the directive looked like when it came from the European Union, we would not have had to change anything, as our legislation now looks. That's what we've been told by lawyers. As the Government said, there were some comments before it was referred to the Law Council, and it had to be corrected. There was just a lot of nonsense that is now gone. It's true. When it comes to reclassification, for example, it is about the type of magazine that is in the weapon. It'll be very technical. If I have understood correctly, decisions will be made and the law will come into force on 1 August. On 3-10 August, the World Championships are planned for dynamic shooting in Sweden. If we do this, it means that the shooters who come here can be with us on August 1 - 2, but on August 3 they are suddenly criminals because they are carrying war material, i.e. those that have been reclassified to category A. In practice, this means that it will be impossible to have the world championship here. When it comes to magazines, you don't want to ban them, but you want to license them. Warehouse is a loose part of weapons, sometimes of plastic and sometimes of metal, and there is a feather and a piece of plastic or metal. With the magazine being a loose part of the weapon, the gun owner could risk losing it. Losing a licensed part of a weapon today provides extremely harsh sanctions against arms owners, which basically means losing their weapons. Making the magazine a licensed part makes it absolutely difficult for hunters and sportsmen. In addition, we see that there are long waiting times to obtain a licence today, and they will be even longer. The Minister mentioned Åberg's investigation. Under the EU amending directive, weapons using cantan-fired ammunition are exempted from additional restrictions. However, it has been chosen to remove the exception in the legislative referral, but it was not the Government's investigator's interpretation before. Åberg thus had one interpretation, while the minister's employees had another. This will affect, among other things, sportsmen and hunters. I hope that when the report is presented we can see that the government stands up for what was said in the debate article of June 2018, although it was not Mikael Damberg but Morgan Johansson and Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht who signed it. They wrote that the government will not introduce rules that make the possession of Swedish hunters more difficult and that instead they want to simplify. I still maintain that the government goes further than the directive requires. I hope and pray that the government will come to its senses and change these things so that we can get to the finish with this and be happy and happy all of them.
i-288ba148bd50293e-409	Madam President, I would like The Government Mikael Damberg wondered about some constructive stuff that we would come up with. Abroad, this has been resolved. Those most affected by the directive are the sportsmen – those who are involved in dynamic shooting and who have a considerable number of cartridges in their warehouses – because it is these weapons that will be reclassified into Class A weapons. In Sweden it is like this: If you have a license for a weapon that can take for example 25 cartridges in the magazine, it is a class A weapon. Instead, several countries in Europe have solved it this way: only at the moment when the magazine is put in the weapon will it become a Class A weapon. So you can travel with it across national borders as with a regular rifle, and then it becomes a class A weapon when you are on the sportsman's track and the magazine is put in the rifle. Then you have a personal license to have a Class A weapon and be able to carry out their activities on the sports field. As soon as you're done with your sportsmanship or competition, you take out the magazine, and then it's no longer a Class A weapon. This is a solution that the European directive agrees with and that you could have done, Mikael Damberg. Then you would not have knocked away the legs of significant parts of the great movement that dynamic sportsmanship in Sweden is. As far as the EU's exemption for cantan-fired ammunition is concerned, it is strange that you have not used it. Cantan-fired ammo is actually saloon rifle ammunition, 22 long rifle. That's what you can barely shoot crows with. It's for practice shooting. If such a rifle has a warehouse capable of holding more than ten cartridges, it is classified into a category A weapon, the same category as anti-aircraft guns, missiles and so on. This is gonna be really weird. What criminals would like to use a gun with saloon ammunition and stand and wave it? It's the same thing there – they'd be laughed at. I think you should take another turn, think about it and try to look at how the other European countries have done. Sportsmanship is important. It is a major sport, and our total defence today is increasingly based on Home Guards and NGOs. It's part of the whole movement, too. Instead of, in a way, violating this group by wanting to frame them, perhaps you can try to look at how the other European countries have done to mitigate this and end up at the minimum level laid down by the European directive.
i-288ba148bd50293e-413	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct, as the Government points out, that I am quite emphasising the feeling, experience and concerns that I hear among my fellow hunters. But it's not just a feeling and an experience. There will be a situation where there will be a new licensing test for those who have semi-automatic weapons. Then we already have a stronger trial in Sweden today, and the police are watching us if we do anything. But it is not with this that we can access criminal weapons, but now we are making it more difficult for the Hunting Corps. The hunters who try to keep the wild boar strain down recommend each other to buy semi-automatic weapons for reasons of safety and security. The hunters strive to do what the government and parliament want, namely to reduce the proportion of wild boars in the forest because they damage land. For that we will have a difficult process. According to those with whom I have spoken, this is a requirement where Sweden goes further than we need to do. I have spoken to hunting shops, other hunters and hunter organisations and received the signal that we are going further here than we need. I find that deeply regrettable. Instead, we really need to make it easier to increase the hunting pressure. I also note that the Government refers in its interpellation response to the ongoing work on simplification. I think it's a shame they don't come at the same time. It is now easy to feel that it is only going in one direction. If you had seen both documents at the same time, it could have been that, for example, permission had been given to turn on lighting and work with other technology that makes it easier to hold after wild boars. I regret that these documents come at different times and still maintain my view. And the government is welcome on the hunt.
i-288ba148bd50293e-417	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for all the answers. But I'm still puzzled, and I think more than I am. If the government does not intend to over-implement, the views we have raised here today, and certainly a lot of others, must be taken seriously. I am thinking mainly of the issues of cantan-fired ammunition, semi-automatic rifles and magazine licensing. Mr. Minister! We have spoken earlier today about the resources and priorities of the police, for example in the debate on animal rights terrorists. Already today, police resources are not enough. Then it feels very strange that we should introduce a license requirement on magazines. It's like introducing a license on bicarbonate, because it would be an ingredient to something else. I am happy to arrange a meeting at my shooting club, or any other club here in Stockholm so that the Government does not have to travel so far. Then he can meet dedicated, talented and law - abiding shooters who can tell them how this would mess with their lives. After all, we do not want the World War II in dynamic rifles in August to become some kind of World War II in armaments. For which airline does even want to fly war equipment? Mr. Minister! Can we have a promise today that there will be no over-implementation and that the Government will review the issues we have been discussing today before the bill?
i-288ba148bd50293e-422	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a constructive debate and discussion. I hope it continues. It is important that Sweden implements the EU directive for several reasons and not only for the reason we talked about at the beginning – that it otherwise starts to cost Sweden money, money that we could have used for more fun things – but also because it is an important principle that we have a common minimum level in Europe that is also held by other countries. We know from the past that Sweden has a fundamentally good order. But not least the police's great concern is that several other EU countries do not have this system and control. Therefore, it is important that Sweden does not end up in the club with those who do not implement a directive that sets a common minimum level when we have such problems with weapons generally in Sweden, not with the Swedish weapons but with weapons coming from outside. That is why this is important for Sweden. It is also important that we have clarified some ambiguities in the debate, both that weapons storage facilities are not banned and that the government does not reclassify weapons but that all classifications are included in the directive. We're not doing it. It was also a discussion about the requirement for review and how it should be done. It was raised earlier in the debate. Our clear picture and that of the lawyers is that what is being done today is unfortunately not enough, that is to say that the register of holders of arms is usually linked with the register of suspicion and the register of charges, which is being done today and is working well. The problem is that the new directive requires re-examination to include the purpose and the need for weapons. It doesn't cover the record. So no matter what we think, this is what should be controlled. Do you understand? Hence, there is a change in this part. It was a wise point from Magnus Jacobsson about pedagogy in this. I would also have liked to have everything in one and the same mess if it had been possible. But we also have limited resources at the Justice Department. It is about the same people who are working on this that are working on the second issue, which means that we have to take these things in turn so that we can handle it. Here we have a directive that will start to cost Sweden money if we do not get it through Parliament and take decisions on it. Hence, we must take these things a little in turn. But I would really like to emphasise that it is a very important and priority for us to prepare these proposals on simplification for the legal arms owners. They are about the authorisation requirement for silencers and about the so-called weapons wardrobes but also about continuing to work with the agency's licensing so that it does not drag on. All these issues are important to us, and I am happy to come back to that. In my last speech, I would also like to say something about illegal weapons. These things are mixed up a little bit. We have no belief that this is a plethora of weapons being used illegally. On the other hand, we have an interest in having a common minimum level in Europe for the regulation of arms, because we have problems in some other Member States. Before the debate is over, I would like to say something about what we also want to do to combat illegal weapons, because it is a very important issue where more needs to be done. We have shootings and gang crime that cause a lot of confusion in society. I shall conclude by saying something more. If, after this discussion, it is possible to limit the views and give concrete expression to what you want to change within the framework of the directive, I think it is extremely important that all parties are constructive in this regard. In fact, somewhere we have a common task to get this legislation through Parliament.
i-288ba148bd50293e-430	Madam President, I would like I will land at the end in my first question that I asked. But before that I will say that I reacted to the fact that in the third paragraph of the Minister's reply the word hobby was used. That, in my opinion, reduces the men and women who compete at high level in different shooting sports. I find it hard to see that anyone believes that Charlotte Kalla or very topical Hanna Öberg, who has taken the World Cup gold while we have had a group meeting, would engage in a hobby. Undeniably, they indulge in a sport. It becomes clear that the view of gun ownership and shooting sport is precisely that it is a hobby and that it can therefore be curtailed without much difficulty. At least I'll take it that way. I am pleased that the Minister still holds out one hand and wants to try to find the best solution possible. But during the break, I've been looking into some of my sources. They maintain their opinion. Therefore, in conclusion, I must ask the Minister: Does the Minister think that the Swedish Hunters' Association, the Hunters' Association, the active sportsmen and the hunting and arms stores that have been in contact with me, which all have exactly the same views and point to the same issues, have all interpreted the Council of Law referral wrong?
i-288ba148bd50293e-433	Madam President, I would like The Minister wanted us to make constructive proposals. We want to do that, of course, because this must be implemented so that we do not get fines and things like that. Here are the main points. Let the exception that the EU has for cantan-fired ammunition also apply in Sweden so that it does not ever classify saloon rifle ammunition as class A weapons, because that is completely unreasonable. Add tea license to the warehouse. Do what many other EU countries have done instead – that at the moment the magazine is put in the rifle, it becomes a Class A weapon. The solution in many other EU countries is to have a personal licence. You have to use the Class A weapon, as it will be at the moment you put it in the warehouse if it exceeds ten rounds, on the shooting range. Then when you're done with your competition or your tracker, you take out the magazine, and then it's no longer a Class A weapon. I think that's the most important thing. Thank you, Mikael Damberg, for a good interpellation debate!
i-288ba148bd50293e-437	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a constructive discussion on an important issue that engages many! With regard to what we talked about before, I would like to make it clear that the word hobby is not a value. We know that there are many who compete, also professionally, linked to this. On the other hand, we have a large group of people who see this as one of their great hobbies, and a hobbies are usually also called a hobbies. There is therefore no negative assessment in this respect. In addition, many of the people who practice both sports and leisure pursuits are also active in other things, such as voluntary parts of our defense. It is thus an important part of Sweden's society. I just want to say something more about the government's efforts to reduce the number of illegal weapons because it mixes up like this is the same thing. The punishment for gun crimes has now been tightened; you know that. That means we're taking a lot more guns. I think there are five times more people in custody for serious gun crimes this year than last year, so this is really one of the most successful pieces of law we've done in recent years. It gets into very serious criminal activity. A strong effort has been made at the Swedish Customs Agency with many international agreements to try to cooperate more with police authorities around to tackle serious crime. The government has set up an investigation to propose measures related to illegal arms management. The police department is also working on shortening the processing times, as we talked about before. The next step in this work is digitalisation. It could shorten the times quite properly and simplify for many people. I hope that it can also be an answer to the question of what we do that simplifies and makes things easier for people. I would like to thank you for the discussion, and I hope for continued constructive dialogue as we move forward.
i-288ba148bd50293e-445	Madam President, I would like Christina Höj Larsen has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration if he intends to take any general initiatives to ensure that violations of human rights or discrimination do not occur in the handling of visa matters. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The absence of discrimination and violations in the handling of visa cases or in any other form of public authority is a matter of course. However, the conditions and criteria to be met for granting a visa to third-country nationals and subsequently allowing them to enter the Schengen area are clearly laid down in the EU Visa Code and the Schengen Borders Code. Both are regulations and therefore directly applicable as a law. As a Member State of the European Union and as a participant in Schengen cooperation, Sweden and the Swedish authorities have to apply the legislation that we, through our membership, have committed ourselves to uphold and comply with. These regulations set out very clearly the criteria for granting visas and entry. For example, one should be able to prove the purpose of one's stay, and one should be able to support one's livelihood. The information provided in the course of a check shall also be consistent with the information provided for the purposes of granting the visa. Just as clearly it is stated that discrimination on grounds of ethnic origin, for example, must not occur. An appeal may be brought against decisions on refusal or revocation of visas, refusal of entry and detention. Those who consider themselves wronged by Swedish authorities can, regardless of their nationality or ethnic origin, contact the Parliamentary Ombudsmen of Justice, JO. The prohibitions in the law against discrimination, the right to a multi-party review and the supervision that takes place through the JO as part of the parliamentary power of control are a working order that safeguards the rule of law and the individual. Issues relating to discrimination are something the government is following closely, but on the current issue of visa matters, I do not intend at present to take any action or to take general initiatives.
i-288ba148bd50293e-451	Madam President, I would like I have put this interpellation above all on account of a case that has been raised. I would like to say straight away that I am very aware that we cannot discuss the case in detail. That is not what I ask or wish of the Government either, but I will talk about it a little because it serves as an example. Unfortunately, it is not the only case of visas that presents this problem. In the summer of 2018, the brothers Ibra Lo and Pape Matar were in Europe to visit their father, who lives in the Netherlands. They're actually from Senegal. They had a Schengen visa and took the opportunity to visit their cousin, who lives in Sweden. They have been in Europe a great number of times, and they have always fulfilled their visa in an exemplary way and returned. But at the Swedish border at Öresund the trip ended on 24 June. The brothers were stopped, interrogated, and immediately detained, where they were kept for over two months. Their visas and other documents were in order before the Swedish border police decided to destroy the documents. This made the matter very difficult to deal with. The case of the brothers has received a great deal of media attention in both Sweden and the Netherlands because what they have been subjected to appears to be a flagrant violation of the EU acquis and the fundamental rights enshrined in the European Treaties and its statutes. It's not the only time this has happened. There are a number of examples from research collaborations, where doctoral students living in, for example, African countries are not granted visas to Sweden, where they are doctoral students, because it is believed that those who are single will not return. Swedish youth organisations invite the government to invite partners from African countries who are not granted a visa, which is a bit strange when it is the government that has asked the youth organisations to invite these guests. So this serves as an example, and it is quite a serious one. Most are denied a visa. But in this case, the brothers have been in custody for nine weeks, which is a serious violation of a person's integrity. After their return to Senegal, the brothers have now been granted a new visa to the Netherlands immediately, which should be a sign that the Union does not see at all the problems seen in Sweden. It makes me very worried. My question to the Government here today is: Does the Government feel confident that the treatment that the brothers had suffered had also affected someone who looks like the State Council or like me, that is, racism has not played a part in this? Actually, I don't.
i-288ba148bd50293e-459	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the interpellation! It is difficult to discuss because it still revolves around an individual case. We are both well aware that it is not up to the government or an individual minister to intervene, investigate or make assessments in individual cases, so we are trying to do this a little more in principle. I think it is important to say that when it comes to entry from third countries, checks are carried out on everyone. There may be a discussion about selecting some, but this is about people who are controlled on entry from third countries. In this case, it becomes even more complicated because, as I understand, there has been an appeal and a complaint. There has been a process. There has been an appeal in court, and there has been access to public counsel. The Court did not find any reason to alter the Authority's decision. In a case that has been tried and where it has been found that the matter was not handled incorrectly, it becomes tricky for me to change everything with reference to it. If we broaden the discussion, it is clear that there is a risk that people will make mistakes in the exercise of their authority. We have had discussions about police officers in other contexts and about security guards. Of course there is a social problem. We cannot ignore the fact that racism or xenophobia sometimes also exists in public authorities. But I find it very difficult to see what initiative to take to change something like that, other than to say that it is incredibly important to register. I know that the authorities are working to absolutely not use ethnic discrimination or anything like that as a basis for their decisions. But, as I said, I find it very difficult to see what to do in this case, when you have tried the matter in court and concluded that the authority has not done wrong.
i-288ba148bd50293e-464	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Minister, for your answer! There were problems such as the fact that the Netherlands or the embassy were not considered to have been contacted; this is covered. The fact that visas have been taken and destroyed has also caused some problems in handling them. I and the Left Party therefore believe that there is good reason to look closely at this case – not only the case itself, although I think the brothers have every right to expect such redress. This can also serve as an example if we are truly sure that we are doing the right thing. It is just as with the Patriarchate, Madam President: we are all well aware that it does not end here outside Parliament's doors so that we do not have to do so in here. The same is true of racism. It is everywhere in society: in here and also in government. This means that we would really need a little bigger metoo awakening around racism and how it actually affects people in everyday life. This example makes me very worried. There are really two different barriers here. Even when people from other countries are applying for visas and they feel that there is a risk that they would like to stay there, there is a thinning. We see that single people, who do not have a family in their home country, find it much more difficult to obtain a visa. Is it really reasonable for a doctoral student from Uganda without a family to have more difficulty in obtaining a visa than one who has a family? We use the visa as a very difficult barrier, and I believe, Madam President, that sometimes it is very difficult to see where the racist prejudices strike and where they do not. I expect that the government, just as it claims to be clearly feminist, is also clearly anti-racist. This requires an analysis of this type of case, where there are a great many questions left.
i-288ba148bd50293e-469	Madam President, I would like The question is a little bigger than that. Sweden has had some comments, not least on how the EU's external border has worked in a number of countries, which has led to a discussion that we also need to have better control of who comes to Sweden and on what grounds. International crime also forms part of this discussion because the police see patterns: from some countries comes a certain type of crime. It affects, I believe, how prone it is to control entry from those regions or countries. It is a law enforcement and not a racist perspective if you know that there are often passport problems from a particular airport, or whatever it may be. So we must also understand the police in this. They have a mission to be law enforcement, to control. This may lead to the assessment of the need to control people from certain places or in certain contexts more closely than others. This need not be a racist discussion. Of course, there may be people who have a racist agenda, but there may also be perfectly legitimate law enforcement causes for being careful. To problematise a little more, I think that hundreds of people are denied entry into Sweden every month with current legislation because they cannot meet the common requirements we have. The decisions are justified, registered and subject to appeal. It is therefore possible, over time, to follow this. I definitely think – and I think this is an important issue – that if you feel discriminated against, violated or racistly treated, you should report it. That is the only way to bring light to this, but also to ensure that we, who have a power of control, can counteract a development that we do not want in our authorities. It is therefore incredibly important to appeal if you feel wrongly treated.
i-288ba148bd50293e-474	Madam President, I would like In 2017, there was a report from Civil Rights Defenders, called Randomly Chosen. It shows that a lot of people in our society are chosen randomly, much more often than the government or I, just because they look a certain way or are perceived in a certain way. This applies to the Roma, and it is certainly the case for the Africans. This is socially damaging in a very serious way. If it is in fact the case that people are consistently and constantly selected randomly because of their origins, it means that it is not everyone's border police. It is not our common, but it is perceived as something directed at some of us in society. It's very bad and very serious. People keep hearing from me, from the universities and from football teams who have invited other football teams, saying: We are going to invite these people, but they are not getting a visa. When I then hear this, that people are allowed to sit nine weeks in detention, which is a very serious measure, and then forced to be expelled by chartered plane even though they actually had tickets home, I do not feel safe that this really lacks racist dimensions. I would like to see a much clearer position. I wish a government that says that it is anti-racist and that consistently follows up on these things. It is terrible for the people it affects, but it is also dangerous for our community.
i-288ba148bd50293e-478	Madam President, I would like Again – racism or discrimination is not allowed in public authorities and must not form the basis for their decisions. It's incredibly important. If you feel discriminated against or exposed, you should report, because that is the only way to pay attention to questions and bring about a change. When it comes to Swedish legislation and what rules and requirements apply to enter Sweden, it is EU-wide requirements. There are therefore no special requirements in Sweden, but they apply to everyone. It is up to the incoming to be able to meet the requirements that exist and consistently and clearly be able to explain their reasons to enter Sweden, so that you meet the entry conditions. The last question is about detention. This is very rare, and the requirements for such a decision to be made are quite high. It shall be a last resort if it is necessary for the person in any way to show that he does not intend to comply with a decision on expulsion. The same applies to how the trip goes home. Without going into detail, it is clear that this issue is also being examined. Therefore, I do not think I should comment, but just say that in this case it has been tried, and it has not been found that the authority was wrong.
i-288ba148bd50293e-482	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I consider it a safety risk that Huawei equipment is being built into the Swedish 5G network, what measures the government has taken or will take to prevent these potential security risks, and whether I will work towards an update of the cybersecurity directive to restrict Huawei's access to the deployment of 5G networks in Europe. The Government is aware of the challenges associated with equipment used in the roll-out of electronic communications networks, and the Government is therefore reviewing the problem and considering whether further measures are needed. During the previous term of office, several measures were taken to increase the ambition of security protection, including initiatives for a new security law. The Government also set up a government investigation, which has proposed, among other things, stricter requirements for operators wishing to carry out a transfer, assignment or outsourcing of security-sensitive activities and increased opportunities for regulators to intervene against such measures: Supplements to the new Security Act, SOU 2018:82. The report is currently being consulted. The Electronic Communications Act(2003:389) provides for operators to take appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure that data processed in connection with the provision of the service is protected. The EU framework for electronic communications has recently been modernised, including on operational security and incident reporting. The government is currently working on the implementation of the new framework in Swedish law. The European Parliament and the Council have reached a political agreement in autumn 2018 on the proposal for Enisa, the EU cybersecurity agency, and on cyber security certification of information and communication technologies, the so-called cybersecurity act. As the legislation has not yet entered into force, it is too early to determine the need for any updates.
i-288ba148bd50293e-486	Madam President, I would like Strong indications suggest that China is intent on confrontation rather than on peaceful cooperation with the West, and that attitude must be seen in the context of its history. We often forget the opium wars, the policy of colonialisation after World War I and the fact that China lost about as many people as the Soviet Union during World War II. As a foreigner living in China, it is impossible not to notice the disrespect that both authorities and people there feel towards foreigners generally and that China is set on revenge against us. China's current strategy towards the West does not focus on tanks or nuclear weapons, but on information. Modern China acts on the basis of an ancient proverb – zhi bi zhi ji, bai zhan bu dai – which means that anyone who has information about the enemy can cope with a hundred wars. The ability to disclose, distort or sell sensitive data and disrupt sensitive infrastructure is a strategic objective, and the spearhead of that capacity is called Huawei. Huawei was founded by an engineer at China's Information Technology Research Institute and has very close ties to the regime. The company has been identified to transfer surveillance technology to North Korea. The company's CFO was recently arrested in Canada suspected of crimes related to the sanctions against Iran, and several persons associated with the company have been arrested in Europe for suspicion of espionage. Since Huawei equipment in the new 5G network provides China with enormous opportunities for information retrieval, the United States, the United Kingdom and Japan, among others, have decided to foreclose the company. Several other countries are currently investigating the issue, but unfortunately Sweden is not one of them. Anders Ygeman recently stated in the newspaper New Technology that he did not even discuss the issue at government level, which is completely incomprehensible. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry to read this interpellation response. I've never seen so many weak excuses before. Ygeman highlights the new security law of last year, which is about strengthening the protection of certain types of information. However, it has nothing to do with this. He highlights the EU's Electronic Communications Code, which is about ensuring fast and reliable internet access in the Union, which is also a completely different issue. Finally, Ygeman mentions the new EU cybersecurity regulation, which will not be used to stop Huawei either. This is Ygeman himself well aware of. His own party is behind a new resolution in the European Parliament dealing with precisely Huawei. I read from the resolution here:
i-288ba148bd50293e-495	Ygeman's own party thus concludes that new legislation is needed, but Ygeman himself refers to existing legislation. Madam President, I would like None of the things the Government addresses in the interpellation response can be used to stop Huawei. The question I want answers to is therefore: Why on earth has this government not prepared Swedish legislation to do this? I would also like to remind you that Anders Ygeman was fired from his former minister's office because he was responsible for it disrupting so-called information security failure in Sweden's history. Now the same Anders Ygeman is about to serve the keys to the entire Swedish IT infrastructure on a silver platter to a company with well-documented links to Chinese intelligence. In other words, history seems to be repeating itself.
i-288ba148bd50293e-498	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling is evil about me taking up the EU cybersecurity directive and wondering why I can do that in response to his interpellation. Yes, Ludvig Aspling, the simple reason is that you have asked about that particular directive. It's not too much to ask you to have read through your own question, is it? With regard to the Swedish Transport Agency, I was responsible for the authority that revealed the maladministration. That was my part in it. I guess that's too well. With regard to the issue of telecommunications and the 5G network, I would like to stress that we need to increase the level of safety for the forthcoming 5G auction. But I think it is a mistake in this to point out a single company or a single nation. What is important, of course, is to ensure that the technology used and the operators who will receive licences maintain the level of security that Sweden has the right to require.
i-288ba148bd50293e-501	Madam President, I would like I think Anders Ygeman hasn't really read my interpellation. The question I am asking is why Anders Ygeman or someone else in the government has not proposed an amendment to the cybersecurity directive to resolve this particular issue. The Cyber Safety Directive was adopted today and will apply from today. However, as things stand at the moment, there are no provisions in what can be used to solve this problem. The question I asked in the interpellation is why the government has not proposed any addition to deal with this problem. That is my question. With regard to this point of pointing out individual companies or individual countries, I will admit that Anders Ygeman has a point. Of course, it is true that individual companies and individual countries should not be identified. But legislation does not work that way. A provision to deal with this problem would be designed so that, for example, companies that build up the 5G network should not use equipment from companies that are likely to have close links with other countries' security services. That is how legislation is built, of course. We should not legislate for a particular company or products from a particular country not to be allowed in the network. This is quite obvious. I think that's a weak objection, actually. As far as legislation is concerned, it is also important to point out that it takes time, as we have seen in today's current debate. This upsets me. This government has had a long time to deal with this problem. The problem with Huawei has been known for four five years, since planning for the 5G network began. But Sweden has not proposed any legislation at all until today. Now the government is saying that it is considering taking action, but it is too late. This issue has to be resolved this year, because it is during this year that the equipment will be installed. After it has been installed it becomes much harder to replace it. Let me draw a brief parallel to how the British have solved this issue. The British, as I understand it, had legislation in place for many years. They were able to take the decision on Huawei as an authority decision. It'll be quick and easy. This is the kind of legislation that Sweden should have had in place, and we should have started preparing for this perhaps four or five years ago.
i-288ba148bd50293e-510	Madam President, I would like Let's start with what we agree on. We agree that we should have legislation that ensures high demands on operators and on equipment at the next 5G network. We seem to be in full agreement on this. We also seem to agree, despite the rather stormy introduction, that in the legislation we should not identify an individual country or a single supplier of components. I welcome that. Then it gets a little weirder, when Ludvig Aspling says: It's too late, because it's components that should be installed this year. What does Ludvig Aspling build it on? The 5G auction will be held in December this year. There are hardly any who will install master and star networks before they know if they will get a license or not. What does Ludvig Aspling base this claim on?
i-288ba148bd50293e-513	Madam President, I would like Do we really agree on this? I insist that this government has missed the opportunity to resolve the issue in time. What Anders Ygeman says at the end is true. It is probably next year that the roll-out will take place, and it is before then that legislation must be in place. But as both Anders Ygeman and I know, legislation on such matters takes a long time to resolve. If we do not get started now, we will certainly not have legislation in place. But it is something that the future will tell. I hope that this is something that Anders Ygeman can take with him from here, so that he puts one or two officials to start investigating the matter today.
i-288ba148bd50293e-515	Madam President, I would like So we agree, Ludvig Aspling, that you were wrong about the timetable. It honors you that you admit it. Let us also be honest and say that we need a high speed when it comes to putting in place the safeguards that we seem to agree on. I hope that I will soon be able to demonstrate this in such a way that Ludvig Aspling and the Swedish Democrats are also satisfied with it.
i-288ba148bd50293e-516	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me two questions regarding security of supply for electricity and points to decreasing margins in the power balance in winter. The first question is whether I am concerned about the developments we are now seeing. The second question is whether I and the government are prepared to reconsider our view on a goal of security of supply. I would like to begin by stating that a robust electricity supply is a fundamental prerequisite for a modern and well-functioning society. This is becoming increasingly clear in a digitalized world, where more and more areas are becoming dependent on a secure supply of electricity. So to the first question, if I am concerned about developments. A year ago the then energy minister was asked the same question by Mattias Bäckström Johansson. I fully support the answer that Mattias Bäckström Johansson then received, namely that Sweden today has stable conditions for the energy sector thanks to the unique agreement that five parties concluded on Sweden's long-term energy policy in June 2016. The agreement contains a wide range of measures to ensure that Sweden will have a robust electricity system with a high level of security of supply, a low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices. At the same time, I can agree that the issue of power is one of the challenges we need to keep an eye on in the coming years when we switch to a renewable electricity system. Although we have an annual surplus of electricity, there will be times when we need to import. In this context, I would like to point out that the import of electricity is nothing strange in itself. On the contrary, the trading of electricity is a key point of the EU's internal electricity market. It would have environmental consequences and would also be expensive for industry and consumers if all countries were to subsidise electricity generation so that they are self-sufficient in all situations. Swedish power networks have recently published their long-term market analysis, which also takes into account Sweden's import opportunities. This nuances the picture – the risk of lack of power is very small in the short and medium term. So to the second question, about a goal of security of supply. I note that security of supply is a broad concept. As far as electricity networks are concerned, this is already in place in Sweden. The electricity grid companies are responsible for ensuring that the power outages are as few and short-term as possible, and a power outage may not exceed 24 hours under the Electricity Act. In the spring, a new EU regulation will come into force requiring all Member States with capacity-keeping mechanisms to set the desired level of effectiveness, i.e. a type of security of supply target. As long as Sweden has a power reserve, we will have to adapt to the new requirements. Finally, I would also like to emphasise that the debate often focuses rather unilaterally on electricity generation. I would like to remind you that there is a consumer side with great potential that I am convinced can contribute to the solution of the power issue through increased flexibility and smart solutions. In addition to cutting consumption peaks, industry and consumers will be able to save money by shifting their use of electricity to times when electricity is cheaper.
i-288ba148bd50293e-524	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the interpellation! Sweden's business and households are more dependent on electricity than ever. Increasing digitalisation, automation and innovations require a constant supply of electricity with high security of supply and good quality. The background to the interpellation is precisely the development that we can see in the balance of effects over the last decade. We have gone from far-reaching margins of almost 5,000 megawatts to now, in the past winter, being at a negative value in these analyses. You can pull out this timeline and look at the slope of the curve, and you can even see two years ahead of time. It's almost a 45-degree shutdown. At least I think there is reason to feel some kind of concern about the development that our authority Swedish power grid predicts. This may not inspire confidence that we have this under control. To find the corresponding situation in Sweden, we have to go back decades. Perhaps you can find a situation in the early 70s when it was the corresponding vulnerable situation. In these contexts, we should remember that these analyses have taken advantage of the power reserve and will run the oil-fired condensing plants in full. The closing of Ringhals 1 and 2 is also in the near future. This means that another 1,700 megawatts will disappear. It will become less stable in the future when large synchronous generators disappear, which contributes not only with active power but also with reactive power and with the balance mass to the power system. Historically, access to energy has been synonymous with prosperity and good economic growth. What households and business have been good at in recent decades is working with energy efficiency and breaking the pattern that has existed. This has meant that we have been able to build on economic prosperity with the same amount of energy. So we have reduced our energy intensity. At the moment, however, there may not be much to suggest that this development should continue. Rather, electricity consumption will increase. We can see that when industry makes energy efficient, energy consumption is reduced, but electricity consumption is increasing. We have new energy-intensive activities that are about to establish themselves in Sweden. The server halls are perhaps the clearest example. The population of Sweden has increased, and we can see a transport sector where electrification is increasing. However, the policy pursued has actively contributed to reducing the margins of the impact balance. The forces that the government and parties behind the energy agreement choose to subsidise are mainly weather-dependent and intermittent forces that have a significantly lower capacity than the forces that disappear from the power system. This means that network capacity must be increased. We can see that, for example, network investments in Swedish power networks have increased by over 1,000 per cent in recent years. They have been tenfold, which means that underlying networks have to pay for those reinforcements. This ultimately means that it is I, the households and the industry who have to pay for this. I, too, can read what is stated in the Energy Agreement to which the Government refers. It says that a robust electrical system with a high level of security of supply is required in Sweden. But writing it doesn't mean you're gonna get it. Somewhere one must be able to point out what reforms will lead to and make it likely that we will have a power system characterised by the same high level of security of supply that has been achieved so far. There is nothing to point to in the power balance reports produced by Svenska Kraftnät. Rather, it is the opposite: it will continue down in the coming years, and we will be even more vulnerable.
i-288ba148bd50293e-533	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson mentions only one side, which is symptomatic. He does not mention that we have reduced the tax on hydropower and nuclear power. He does not mention that we have extended the power reserve to 2025. He does not mention that the electricity certification system has been extended and extended by 18 terawatt hours of renewable electricity generation, and he only mentions in part that the transmission capacity of the core network has been strengthened both within the country and to the outside world. In contrast to Mattias Bäckström Johansson, I welcome the network expansion that has taken place, both in order to increase security of supply and to have a better transfer between senders. We shall closely monitor the development of effects, and we are in that sense in a time of change when we move to increasingly renewable energy. I did not understand whether Mattias Bäckström Johansson thought it was a positive or a negative development, but I would say that it is fundamentally positive that we are moving towards more and more renewable energy in Sweden. There, Sweden's hydropower is a unique resource that forms one of the cornerstones of our fossil-free and renewable energy production. As people's consumption patterns change, the electricity grid also needs to change. We need to invest more in our electricity grids, especially in our more densely populated regions. We need to strengthen our transmission capacity and we need to facilitate energy investments in the vicinity of our population centres because it will be crucial to meet the challenges we have in the system. Unlike many other countries, we have a huge asset in the energy agreement that was concluded and that 75 per cent of the members of Parliament are behind, where we can meet both competitive electricity prices for Swedish industry and high targets in terms of renewable energy. This is a development that the government is in favour of and affirms.
i-288ba148bd50293e-538	Madam President, I would like In the short term, for example, the proposals on the reduction of the property tax on hydro power and the removal of the power tax benefited by maintaining the grateful situation in which Sweden has been in and continues to move within but which is coming out. This is something that the Swedish Democrats support both in the Energy Commission and in this House. Our entry point is not to focus on exactly what forces you should have in the energy system but rather on what we want to achieve. It's about reducing our fossil dependence. We want a fossil-free power sector, but the energy agreement has instead chosen to make a narrower determination of which fossil-free power types we should have instead of welcoming all fossil-free power types. The solutions that the Government puts its trust in do not exist today in many cases, and where they exist they are far from commercial. In the short term, the government has tried to raise investment in equipment linked to storage by means of grants and subsidies, or to steer legislation towards primarily solving tax technical issues rather than focusing on physical and technical problems that exist or that have been brought about by the policy pursued. There is certainly potential linked to demand response. It is something that is partly used today in the context of the power reserve or by interested enthusiasts. However, these are factors that contribute to the margin. We can see that the market and interest in this is very limited. Recently, for example, Vattenfall, which is owned by the state, closed down its sales and investment in smart-home solutions, when only a few thousand of its more than 800 000 customers were interested in this. To the extent that you can automate and it does not interfere with everyday routines, there is, of course, both potential and willingness to contribute – I am very convinced of that myself – but there must be some form of reasonable financial incentive. It has been quite clear from similar experiments that households have no direct interest in making the kind of departures that are about adapting and consuming more electricity if there is a lot of wind or if it is sunny days. There are not enough financial incentives. In so far as there is interest, it is a problem that with the market model we have today that focuses only on energy, we will also not be able to exhaust the potential linked to the power issue. The more people engage in this, the lower the economic incentive will be when demand has moved. It is interesting that the Government in its response raises the suspension allowance. The supply of electricity is quite correct in two parts: both electricity production itself and distribution. There are two parts that must work together if any electricity is to reach out. In most cases, the customer is compensated, but when the disconnection is linked to delivery security, no compensation is paid to the customers at all. For the individual customer, however, it is less important if the problem has existed at the production or distribution level. I agree with the Government that one should not focus unilaterally on the production side or on what power it should be; it is about being able to achieve reasonable security of supply, which can also involve measures on the user and user side. But why are we so afraid to have a market for this to ensure that policy sets a framework for an acceptable security of supply and then let it be a competition between the production side and the consumer side to get the most cost-effective solutions?
i-288ba148bd50293e-546	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the supplementary questions! Nevertheless, I note that we broadly agree, both that we must keep an eye on the impact challenge and that we must work on both sides. We agree on the importance of having a high level of security of supply, although Mattias Bäckström Johansson calls it reasonable. I think a reasonable security of supply is that you can trust that you get electricity when you need the electricity. That must be the foundation. In fact, we also agree that the market is a good and flexible mechanism to help us achieve the political objectives. That is why we are able to cope with the peak load by a large margin even in the cold days we have had, despite the fact that the market has chosen to shut down a number of reactors. Mattias Bäckström Johansson mentioned households, but above all it is about the large electricity consumers on the company side choosing to put their production so that they reduce the energy demand at peak load. Of course, it is good for industry because they can then keep their electricity prices significantly lower than otherwise, and it is also good for the ability to supply electricity because it causes demand to fall when the electricity price is higher. In the same way, the cables that are being built and have been built will have the effect that we will import electricity to a greater extent if demand rises in Sweden. Today, Sweden produces a large surplus of electricity, and we are large net exporters of electricity. I think that's good. It helps to reduce CO2 emissions in other countries. At the same time, of course, it is also good if we can import electricity if and when we need it. I think everyone's going to win. Then Mattias Bäckström Johansson conducted a discussion about renewable versus fossil-free; which was most or least limiting. The opposite of renewables is finite. This means that in this sense we are building a more short-term energy system than otherwise. Although we have set a renewable energy target, it is ultimately the market that determines the type of energy it believes in and the type of energy it is prepared to invest in. It appears that the market has a high level of confidence in renewable energy sources. These are the ones we see growing, not only in Sweden but around our continent.
i-288ba148bd50293e-552	Madam President, I would like In the answer, the Government said that it is the market that decides what to build. It is being built for more renewable energy. It is not so funny when there is a subsidy system for renewable energy in Sweden. It is aimed at those who build, and there are also tax incentives. It is not surprising what will be built when political priorities are given to certain types of energy. It is not chosen to be cost-effective among the fossil-free alternatives available. In some cases it would have been more rational not to add additional production without working on the consumption side. There is no market for the supply of capacity or any form of power market. There is only one energy market, and then there is an electricity certification market where it has been decided politically that it should be renewable. This is what we are opposed to. It has created a development in which there is an increasing margin in the power balances, and we believe that it will be difficult to maintain the existing market model that exists today over time. Politics should consider what we want our power system to be characterised by in the future. A given entry would be a goal of security of supply and linking a market and a framework to it. Then production and user actors will participate to help and help maintain security of supply over time. That policy does not exist today. The question is why you're so scared. The Government itself points out that it is trying to pick out certain parts from a political point of view. It hasn't gone very well. The slope of the curve over the last ten years is 45 degrees down, and so it will continue for the next two years as well. What will reverse this trend so that we will find ourselves in a more grateful situation in the coming years? I find it difficult to see what it can be, and I note that the Council of State has not pointed out anything either in its interpellation response or in the debate.
i-288ba148bd50293e-557	Madam President, I would like I mentioned a number of measures to improve the situation in the future. The government and the parties included in the energy agreement will, of course, monitor the situation closely to ensure that we have good and secure access to energy in our country at competitive prices and that we manage the transition to renewable energy. It is a process which, in principle, the whole of the EU, apart from a few Eastern countries, is involved. There's a delivery security target. It is possible that the delivery security target will change. We have to do this when the EU makes its decisions. If the European Union takes such a decision, we must live up to those objectives. It is not reasonable for us to make this consideration separate from the other EU process. Nevertheless, I note that, in all material respects, we agree with Mattias Bäckström Johansson, even if his party is outside the energy agreement.
i-288ba148bd50293e-560	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me how I will act in order to make it clear in all of Skolsverige how writings in the school law should be interpreted in order for the school day to work for everyone. Robert Stenkvist has asked me whether I believe there are problems of insecurity in a significant number of schools today and whether we can hand over these serious problems to the school heads alone. Robert Stenkvist has also asked me if I have any forthcoming proposals to increase the safety of school and whether I believe that the school law is sufficiently clear in terms of teachers' powers to create peace and quiet in the classroom – this after a school paid compensation despite the teacher's compliance with the school law. I would like to begin by emphasising the importance of order and study in the classroom and that all girls and boys and all staff are safe in school. Education in schools is designed in accordance with the School Act(2010:800) to ensure a school environment characterised by safety and education. In July 2019 changes to the curriculum for primary school, among other things, will enter into force that clarify the Vice-Chancellor's special responsibility for this. The responsibility of pupils to show respect for school staff and other pupils is also highlighted by these curriculum changes. Ordering and learning in the classroom is a prerequisite for students' learning and development. A safe working environment also promotes the attractiveness of the teaching profession. The school's work to achieve security and education includes disciplinary measures as well as educational leadership and to counteract insulting treatment. As with much else in school, both clear rules and systematic development work are needed to achieve the results we seek. I have recently answered similar questions about safety and education at school. I am pleased that there are many of us who are committed to these issues that have an impact on both the students' knowledge and the working environment for everyone who works in school. My information is still clear. In accordance with the January Agreement, the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party will jointly develop a national plan for school education and safety during their term of office. This work includes reviewing the possibilities for disciplinary action and ensuring a functioning regulatory framework for good work with safety and education at school. Students who have threatened or subjected others to violence should be able to switch off or relocate more easily. The disciplinary measures of the School Act should be used by teachers and principals. Teachers should be able to carry out their work with security in their professional activities and with the support of the principal and school head. The extent to which our joint work will lead to the fact that it is precisely the school law that should be amended, I cannot say today for obvious reasons. It'll turn out.
i-288ba148bd50293e-564	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister – this late hour! I am particularly grateful for the written answer. I agree with the Government that a safe working environment for teachers increases the attractiveness of the teaching profession. I have been the first to say this in this House. An unsafe working environment makes the teaching profession attractive. It is a very important question, and it may be one of the explanations for the lack of teachers. I've talked to a lot of teachers who have quit because of all the mess in schools and classrooms. That's why it's such a very important question. The question is whether it is not necessary to clarify the competences of teachers and the responsibilities of students. Another question is whether the school law should be used instead of the curriculum. Even the school law, which is clear today, is still misinterpreted, especially by the Children's and Student's representative. That question has also been raised for debate. In the written answer, I noticed that the Government addresses the importance and importance of a safe school environment and school outcomes and is linked to a safe and quiet classroom. Brain researcher Martin Ingvar has written a very interesting and adequate chapter about how devastating it is with unsafe school environments and messy classrooms. It prevents all learning directly because the human brain works that way. This interpellation was written before Ekström's debate in Aktuellt on 4 March. If I had written it after March 4th, I might have been able to take it a little further. I think it was a very good debate in News. The government debated with a teacher, and I recognized much of what the teacher said. I worked at school myself, and he made very important points. In Hjulstaskolan, so-called low-affective treatment is used. It is a method that, properly used, can work for parents and certain institutions. However, using it in school as described in the media is directly detrimental to the security and study of the classroom. How can a principal not understand that? It makes no sense to me. In fact, we politicians in the government and parliament have ultimate responsibility for the safety of students at school. We are all responsible for this, despite the fact that the municipalities are principals. Another issue that the Government addressed in the TV debate was the increasing number of complaints against teachers of pupils and parents. So we have a situation in which teachers must act against disturbing students, do so in accordance with the school law and still be very much registered. We have cases where teachers are acquitted by the School Inspectorate and other bodies but where the school still pays damages. Then I wonder: What signal does this give to other teachers? Above all, I wonder: if teachers are afraid to act and intervene against disturbing students, as is the case today, what effect does it have on the security and study of many schools? It must, of course, further detract from the possibility of creating a safe classroom environment, at least according to my logic.
i-288ba148bd50293e-574	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your presence in this House when we discuss these important issues, Robert Stenkvist! I want to be very clear: The teacher who performs his work under the School Act should feel the full support of society. The teacher who performs his/her work according to the School Act and assumes his/her responsibility to ensure that there is security and study in the classroom should not have to be afraid of consequences – as long as one stays within the law. I think this is a task for us politicians, but I also think it is a task for the school's principals, principals, colleagues and students at school. We have highlighted this particularly clearly in a new curriculum, which will enter into force this summer. It is also a task for the country's parents. Sometimes it's like we forget about the parents' important role in school. Parents have an important role to play in ensuring that what children do in school is in the children's own interests, namely, a focus on the student's knowledge and education. I can be very worried that sometimes it sneaks into a customer mentality in the parental role – and sometimes even in the student role. To be a student or parent is actually to be involved in taking responsibility for one of the most important things in a child's childhood, namely to learn a lot in school and get the knowledge and education needed to support yourself, study and be a responsible adult. It is also important in view of the fact that students will actually be involved in building our future society. Education and training cannot be a commodity, a service, in a market. Instead, it is something that involves a big job for students and sometimes also for parents, even I am keen that all students should get the support they need in school regardless of whether the parents support them at home or not. Security and studyo are therefore important. It is important for us to ensure that all students develop their full potential in school, not just those who have support from home. Are there any who really lose out on lack of security and education at school – besides the groups that have already been mentioned here, teachers and other students – perhaps it is above all those students who do not have much support from home. They're the ones who'll be the biggest losers. In the teaching role, which is a difficult role, there is an obligation to sometimes actually exercise supervision. There is a regulatory obligation. There is a duty of custody with regard to the pupils present in the classroom. In this role you may sometimes have to act in such a way that in the moment it is very difficult to decide what to do to act within the framework of the law. However, my message is very clear: The teacher who acts under the school law should have the support of society.
i-288ba148bd50293e-580	Madam President, I would like In fact, the Government and I agree on the problem picture, and I am delighted. However, I would say that teachers acting under the Education Act do not have the full support of society today. I myself have worked in school and have been in conversation with the principal and parents when I have intervened against very troublesome students. The Government is right that the customer system may be a villain in this. The parents are threatening: If you do not do as my child wants, we will move the child to another school, and then – implicitly – you will lose your school money! This is unfortunate. When I worked at school, I and many teachers often told me that if we had had the parents with us, we would not have had any problems. If you have parents who work with the school, you get to know their children – the students. But we don't have that, but there has been a big move compared to when I was in school. At that time, parents were always on the side of teachers and schools, and now they never do. I've read articles about a teacher who was beaten up because he gave a student a B instead of an A in grades. So we have a completely different situation, and we must try to reverse this trend. It is not easy, for it has to do with the development of society as well. Maybe it's more than we can handle. I would also like to mention BEO, the representative of children and students. In principle, the representative of children and pupils always takes a stand because severely disturbing pupils who have been sent out by teachers have been violated. It doesn't matter how the teacher has acted or how difficult the student has disturbed the classroom; it is always the teacher who is mean and has violated a child. In some cases, it may be so. I read some articles before this debate and read about the teacher Carina, who lifted a disturbing student out of the classroom. She was reported and acquitted in all instances, but BEO felt that she had violated the student because other students were watching. If you pick out a disturbing student from the classroom, it is quite natural for other students to watch. Doesn't the representative of the Children's and Student's Office understand that? There's something that doesn't work here. Yesterday there was an article in Svenska Dagbladet where it was also described that teachers do not feel safe to act to create peace in the classrooms and schools. There is also a case from Linköping in 2017. There the teacher had to physically move a student, and it's the same thing there: All the bodies felt that the teacher was doing the right thing, including the district court, but BEO was of course of a different opinion. I also note, with some surprise, that BEO is part of the School Inspectorate. So it is the same school inspection that proposes the teachers that BEO believes have violated disturbing students. This is strange. It is a strange development and a strange attitude. I also wonder if the Children's and Student's representative ever thinks about the quiet students who raise their hands and want to learn something in school. It's still the majority in most classrooms. There are quiet students there who want to get good grades and learn and who basically do as the teacher says. They are the ones who are affected, apart from the teachers' work environment.
i-288ba148bd50293e-587	Madam President, I would like I am unable to comment on individual cases, and even if I were not, I would probably exercise some caution when it comes to passing cross-security judgments in cases in which I have had no opportunity whatsoever to get involved. We should be clear that society is behind the teachers and principals who, within the framework of the law, maintain order and study. However, we should also be clear that no students should have to endure violations at school, and those who are victims of violations of various kinds should of course have a place to turn. Today, I received Bris, Children's Rights in Society's Annual Report on Children's Living Conditions. One task in that report that impressed me was that the students indicate that bullying has increased in our schools in recent years. Here we are completely dependent on the fact that there are good opportunities for students to make their voice heard and that the students have an adult to turn to, at school or within the framework of the work of the authorities. I am also very keen that there should be an opportunity for students to turn to adults in school and tell when something is going wrong. For example, I do not want to take away from the students any opportunity whatsoever to report suspicions of honour problems or suspicions of bullying – suspicion of behaviour that is not acceptable. It is also part of the student's security and education. The examples I am now giving show how important it is that when we review the provisions relating to safety and study, we take the great responsibility we have as adults very seriously and really ensure that safety and students can function at school. But of course, it is absolutely essential that the adults in school have the tools they need to ensure this. No, Madam President, I cannot see that there are so great differences of opinion on the fundamental issue, namely that it is important to ensure that school is characterised by safety and education. I will devote the term of office before us to ensuring that knowledge and education are the focus of the classrooms, that pupils' learning results can rise, that we can strengthen equivalence in school and that school is the democratic institution that I want and not a service like others on the market. I also want to work very hard for the teachers' work environment and for the teachers' satisfaction in school to be so high that we have better access to educated and experienced certified teachers in school than we have today. The rules we are now discussing are important, but they are perhaps above all important because they provide a good basis for teachers to be able to exercise safe and secure leadership in the classroom. However good the school law may be, however, it will all depend entirely on the teacher being able to exercise leadership in the classroom that is safe and that creates an atmosphere in the classroom that makes the students gladly comply with the rules that apply and cooperate. I am very proud of the curriculum change that we have made and that really makes it clear that this is also a responsibility for the students, not least because it is so well in line with my view of the school – that the school should raise students to responsible freedom.
i-288ba148bd50293e-596	Madam President, I would like In terms of equivalence, the problems are greatest in the so-called exclusion areas. I myself live in Botkyrka, where there are certain exclusion areas. There the problems are the worst, and there the students are hardest hit by messy and anxious classrooms. I've heard terrible stories, even though I don't know how much is true. If we were to have quiet and secure classrooms in these areas, we would really be doing a huge job for the students attending school there. I do not think that the problems are greatest in Danderyd, but it is in Northern Botkyrka they are the greatest. BEO convicts teachers' actions in cases where the School Inspectorate and other agencies say it's okay. I maintain that there is something not good about BEO. The government mentioned that bullying is increasing; I'm sure it is. My experience is that bullying increases with messy schools and messy classrooms. Then we'll lose control. The children, or the students, do not feel secure and do not get a firm frame. Both children and students want firm frames, even if they do not always express them. All children who grow up want firm frames and want to know what applies, even if they say otherwise. When this framework disappears, harassment increases between students – unfortunately that is the case. Here we come to the teachers' lack of authority. It is a development that has taken place over time that teachers' authority has been reduced, which of course may be due to several things. I had more to say, but I don't have time for any more.
i-288ba148bd50293e-602	Madam President, I would like This debate has, of course, been a lot about the different rules of the school law. We agree that the school law is important. We also agree that it is important for teachers to feel the support of society. But there are also important parts of our school policy where unity is not as great. During the last term of office, the government provided resources so that 28 000 more adults could be present at school. I think it is very good, and I think it is extremely important. The presence of adults, and ensuring that teachers do not have to do everything that is to be done in school, is crucial for the school to be a safe and secure environment for both students and adults. We have raised teachers' salaries, and we have lived through a period when we have seen, for the first time in a very long time, increased knowledge in the Swedish school. At the same time, we have major challenges and major problems. I am thinking in particular of the lack of equivalence and the great lack of teachers. On some of this we agree, but on some we do not agree. I will continue to fight to ensure that the school law and the teachers' conditions for carrying out their work are well connected. Here I think I will have support, as has been said in this debate. But I will also continue to fight on issues where I will not have the same strong support. For example, I will fight for more resources for school. I will also continue to work to ensure that the school is run as a democratic educational institution and not as any service on the market. It also remains to be seen how strong the support of the Swedish democrats will be in the future. We will work on a national plan for security and study, and we will do so together with the Centers, Liberals and the Green Party. I look forward to this work. It will be an important job during my time as Minister of Education and a job that I will find great pleasure and great pride in.
i-288ba148bd50293e-609	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me how I and the government view the level of service on ferry routes to be different in the country depending on the principal and whether I and the government can take measures to make the regulations neutral to who is the principal of a particular road in order to have a more similar level of service in ferry traffic. Each island is unique. Local conditions vary, and there are often reasons that go back a long way to the fact that connections to and from the island look as they do and to who is the main driver of these connections. It is natural that different principals can have different levels of service in their range. There are ferries needed for public transport and which are accessories for public roads with the state as road keeper, with some municipality as an exception. There are also individual road ferries, operated by individuals, with or without state subsidies. Some of these are run by municipalities, as is the case with the line addressed in the interpellation. Then there are various forms of boat connections that run as public transport or by individuals. On the basis of local conditions, each principal takes a position on the level of service offered.
i-288ba148bd50293e-613	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The possibility of moving goods by ferry is crucial for many people when it comes to whether they will be able to continue living and working in the archipelago. This is particularly true in the southern archipelago of Gothenburg, but by extension it applies to all archipelago environments around Sweden. In the southern archipelago of Gothenburg, about 5,000 people live all year round, and an estimated more than twice as many live there in summer time. It is a living archipelago, but it lacks land connections and is therefore completely dependent on the possibility of transporting people and goods by boat. Freight traffic in the southern archipelago has so far been subsidised by Trafikverket through the so-called operating subsidy for ferry routes. But in August 2018, Trafikverket decided to phase out the grant until 2021. When you read the decision, you realize that it is only with reference to formality. This is because it is the municipality that has procured the traffic. The grant is intended for associations that operate or have commissioned a municipality to operate ferry services. I do not intend to hold the Minister responsible for an individual decision, Madam President. It is not appropriate to do this in this House, and it is not, for that matter, the Minister who has taken the decision. But with the example of Gothenburg's southern archipelago, I would like to highlight how different unequal opportunities to live in the archipelago are. It is enough to look on the other side of the river mouth in Gothenburg's northern archipelago, in Öckerö municipality, which also lacks land connections but where the Swedish Transport Administration's ferry company operates several ferry routes for vehicle traffic with round-the-clock trips. The difference in service level here is due to the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration is responsible for the road network in Gothenburg's northern archipelago, but in the southern archipelago it is municipal or individual roads. I have read and heard the Minister's reply here today, but I regret to say that I did not really receive a further answer to my specific question. Therefore, I have to ask again: how does the Government view that the level of service is different because of mere formality, and can the Government consider taking any steps to achieve more level playing field?
i-288ba148bd50293e-620	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Minister, and thank you not least to David Josefsson for a very important and relevant interpellation! Gothenburg's southern archipelago is a fantastic asset that is very popular among the residents of course but also among all visitors. And there are many things that today work well in the archipelago. Quality of life and employment rates are high. The archipelago has a strong and successful shipping business with a proud history. Although the southern archipelago of Gothenburg can sometimes be seen as one of Gothenburg's most prosperous areas, there are also challenges, as in all places. In some respects, the challenges can be compared to those in sparsely populated areas, and I think this interpellation points to that particular perspective. That brings to mind the declaration of government that we heard the Prime Minister give here in the speaker's chair a few weeks ago. Among other things, he said: The government's goal is not just that the whole country should live. The whole country will grow. The Prime Minister also said: It will be possible to live, live and work throughout the country. Sweden should stick together. I fully agree with the Prime Minister in this regard. In the light of the Prime Minister's words, I would like to ask Tomas Eneroth how he believes that the Finnish Transport Administration's decision contributes to the Government's objectives. How does Trafikverket contribute to the goal of the whole country's growth, and how does Trafikverket contribute to the ability to live, live and work throughout the country?
i-288ba148bd50293e-625	Madam President, I would like Thank you both Hampus Hagman and David Josefsson for their commitment! I appreciate that. The archipelago is fantastic, not least in Gothenburg where I have been very many times. Of course, I also share what the Prime Minister says: that the whole country should live, grow and be able to develop. That is the whole point of departure, not least for the infrastructure policy we are pursuing. We're making the biggest bets ever. That's 700 billion in national planes. There are large investments waiting in rural areas but also in large cities to develop the infrastructure, which has been so long neglected or underinvested. Ferry traffic is special. In this case, there are very many different principals. Freight traffic in the Stockholm archipelago, for example, has no state aid. It still has this in parts of the Gothenburg archipelago, in the part where the municipality has a greater responsibility. The interpellant notes that the difference in service level is that the Swedish Transport Administration is responsible for the road network in Gothenburg's northern archipelago, while in the southern archipelago it is municipal or individual roads. In other words, some of this interpellational discussion should, of course, also be conducted regionally and municipally as to what responsibility the municipality and the region are prepared to take in order to maintain a different level of service if that is the wish. The state is responsible for the state road network and up to 37 state ferry routes. It is a system that I think has worked well. Care must be taken as to who is responsible for different parts of our infrastructure. I cannot comment on the individual decision of authority, and that is also mentioned by David Josefsson. But I like the idea that we are still having a discussion about the general conditions. Then it is precisely with the road network that ferry traffic, that there is a difference in what the state is responsible for and what is the responsibility of municipal or individual road managers. There, of course, the question of the level of ambition should be addressed to those who feel that the level of ambition and the level of service are worse. For the state road network and the state ferry routes, we have clear criteria. And if I understand the interpellant correctly, the service level and the level of ferry traffic are perceived as very good. This indicates that the State takes full responsibility for ensuring this on what is part of the state road network. I look forward to a dialogue on how we can continue to develop the state's responsibility for ferry traffic, but of course also the conditions for municipalities and individual road managers. In general, we are keen that we have good connections throughout the country and not least in the archipelago for the 5 000 people who live there and for all the tourists who come there to visit. The view I have received is that this distribution system has nevertheless worked relatively well.
i-288ba148bd50293e-633	Madam President, I would like I have met residents in the archipelago before this interpellation debate and listened to people who are involved in various collaboration associations in the southern archipelago. I've also talked to those who drive the freight ferry. Being able to get their goods transported easily and smoothly is a prerequisite for a living archipelago. In an article in ETC Gothenburg on 12 February this year you can read about both residents and traders at Donsö who are worried about the future if the grant disappears. You can also read about an official at Trafikverket who says that the formal rules do not allow the southern archipelago to receive the grant. 中 Right should be right. Those who are entitled to the grant must have it, and somewhere you can draw the line. As a result, the Finnish Transport Administration saves 13 million per year in reduced subsidies on purely formal grounds. Who will pay the ferry after that is unclear or even if it is still there. As I said, Madam President, I do not question the official's decision, but it nevertheless focuses some kind of focus on the validity of the regulatory framework. The Minister now told us that it is a matter of municipal responsibility and a state responsibility and that there are rules on this. The rules say that the Swedish Transport Administration's operating grants to ferries may go to associations that procure the traffic themselves or – keep up – to associations that commission the municipality to procure the traffic. In Gothenburg, however, the municipality has procured the traffic itself and is therefore no longer eligible for a grant. It is therefore not a question of whether it is private or municipal roads, but it is simply a matter of not being an association that has commissioned the municipality to procure. For me, it is unacceptable that formalities and different principals should decide what service they receive in the archipelago. Having working opportunities to transport goods is a prerequisite for people to be able to operate and live on the islands and for us to be able to preserve living archipelagos throughout Sweden. That is why I wonder, Madam President, once again: Is it really reasonable, the Minister, that it is purely formal grounds, such as whether a municipality has been commissioned by an association to procure or procure on its own, which will determine what level of service you get depending on which island or in which archipelago in Sweden you live?
i-288ba148bd50293e-639	Madam President, I would like We heard here that major investments will be made in the infrastructure of the country. That's good, of course. This will help Sweden become a better country with better communications. But how much of the big investment is actually spent on ferry services? The Finnish Transport Agency's decision last August to start reducing to eventually abolish the operating subsidy for ferry routes means that working freight infrastructure either disappears completely or becomes much more expensive. It strikes the opportunity to live, live and work in this part of the country. Madam President, I would like I understand that the Government is prevented from answering questions about the individual case, but I still wonder whether not all the decisions taken by the Finnish Transport Administration will contribute to achieving the goals that the Government has and that the Prime Minister expressed in the Chamber barely four weeks ago.
i-288ba148bd50293e-642	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, the task of the Finnish Transport Agency to ensure that national priorities have an impact, and that is one of the reasons why we in the national plan are investing heavily in roads in rural areas and an historic increase in efforts in maritime transport. This is a clear priority for shipping, which, not least from the point of view of freight, will become increasingly important in the future. As the interpellier knows, I am not in a position to comment on the individual matter. I can't do that. Then I'm sure I'll be notified to the KU, so I'll be careful of that. However, it is important to remember that what the Finnish Transport Administration also has to do is comply with a regulatory framework. The question was whether to reject or change the state grant on formal grounds. Indeed, it is the task of our authorities to do so on a formal basis. I'd be worried if you didn't have a basis for the positions you're making. The problem is that there is government responsibility and municipal responsibility. It should be noted that corresponding freight traffic in the Stockholm archipelago, for example, does not receive State aid or subsidies. The difference between the southern archipelago and the northern archipelago is an increased state responsibility in the northern archipelago because the ferry routes there have been identified as public transport means. That is the starting point for classifying the different ferry routes. It is, on the other hand, something that should lead to dialogue and discussion in the region about the responsibilities and ambition of the service level. I hope and believe that the Members of Parliament will carry this home to the constituency and that there will also be dialogue in the region and the municipality on the continuation of responsibility. The state contributes with great resources to 37 general state ferry routes, to a public ferry with municipal road maintenance and to eleven routes with individual ferries with state subsidies. There is thus a comprehensive state subsidy system to ensure good connections also in the archipelago – in the same way as there is in the case of individual roads, municipal roads and state roads. I find it difficult to see the consequences of a change that would make the regulatory framework completely neutral. Either there will be a sharp increase in ambition or a sharp decline in ambition, and the latter I do not think any of us want to see. I have not noticed any such proposals in Parliament in previous years either. This is because it is a complex matter to sort out individual ferry routes and municipal and state responsibilities. This system has worked well for a long time. There will always be a dialogue between municipalities, regions and states on financial responsibility. The starting point for the government is that we are investing more than ever in maintaining good infrastructure throughout the country.
i-288ba148bd50293e-652	Madam President, I would like I think the Minister misunderstood me. Of course, there should always be a formal basis for an authority decision. At the same time, however, we must be open to reviewing the rules and thinking about how we can get a more neutral regulatory framework if we have arbitrary rules that strike different and unfortunate. As I said in my introduction, I certainly do not blame the Minister for this decision. As Hampus Hagman pointed out, I think there is a political consensus that we want living archipelagos around Sweden. But then something needs to be done about the regulations, and this shows the example of the Gothenburg archipelago with all the clarity. The ETC Gothenburg article shows that the question of the southern archipelago ferry was up at national level in politics even in the 1990s before the grant came into place. I hope for a happy ending as in the 1990s, with the difference that this time we will have a clear regulatory framework based on needs and purpose rather than on rules and principals, that is to say that the regulatory framework will be clearer and more neutral. I do not think it is a question of an increase in ambition or a reduction in ambition, but rather of a clearer regulatory framework. Madam President, I would like Although the answers from the Minister in this interpellation debate have not been very concrete, I hope that the input from the worried islanders that I have met will be included in the Government's continued work for a vibrant archipelago throughout Sweden, because here I think we are politically agreed. It may seem to be a small question in the broad context. It is about 5 000 people and 13 million SEK, but for these people it is perhaps the very prerequisite for them to continue to live and work in the archipelago.
i-288ba148bd50293e-657	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, I appreciate your commitment! For the 5,000 people who live there, this is incredibly important. I myself grew up in Kosta with 800 inhabitants and know how important it was to me during my childhood with good connections, whether it was on private, municipal or state roads. This is also true when you live in the archipelago, and I think we all share the ambition that it should be as good as possible for you to live and live there and be able to grow, develop and run businesses. That is why freight transport is so important. But it is also important that we have order and who actually has the responsibility for payment. I went back a little in history and looked at Thage G Petersson's investigation from 2006 and the state grant regulation from 1986 and found that this has been a complex issue for a long time in the Riksdag. Regardless of government, no one has changed the basic distribution, which means that we have a little different headship. It's because it's a lot of tradition. There is also a lot of discussion about what state responsibility should be for all different parts of the archipelago, but the order we have had has nevertheless proved to be working relatively well. Perhaps this debate could lead to an increased debate both regionally and nationally on the importance of the archipelago. I don't mind. The archipelago is very important, not only for those who live, live and work there, but for Sweden's cultural heritage and tourism. We shall take advantage of this commitment. It has been a good debate, and I will, of course, take this along with me in the further work of the government.
i-288ba148bd50293e-663	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me how I view the trade unions' ability to buy legislation and political influence and whether I intend to take any initiatives in this area. Let me begin by stating that a free and independent association life is a fundamental part of our democratic governance. An important principle is the independence of associations and organisations in relation to the state. Furthermore, everyone is free to decide individually which political party to support in general elections. Our open democratic governance is also characterised by a variety of interests, opinions and perspectives competing for space and seeking to influence the political outcome. The fact that many actors express opinions and try to influence politics is fundamentally positive because it contributes to a better and more vibrant democratic dialogue and to more informed decisions. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out that it seems less appropriate with regard to the freedom of association, not least for its importance in labour law and the Swedish labour market model, to introduce provisions limiting what organisations in the labour market may use their own resources or which intervene in the decision-making processes of such non-profit organisations. 2017/ 18:19 p. 62). I agree with that view.
i-288ba148bd50293e-667	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Democracy for his answer, although I hoped that as Minister for Democracy she would better understand that corruption is a threat to democratic institutions. It should not be possible to buy political services. In the idea of a man, a voice is that those who have financial resources should not be able to buy or blackmail politicians to get through their political desires. At the end of May 2018, just over three months before the autumn elections, the trade union Kommunal and its chairman went out with the promise to secure 250 000 votes for the Social Democrats in the elections. In exchange for these votes, Kommunal demanded that the Social Democrats promise, among other things, to abolish fixed-term employment. The same trade union has brought over SEK 3 million annually to the Social Democratic Party. During the 2018 elections, another 10 million were invested in political campaigning for this particular party. That a legal person like Kommunal offers money and a whole group's votes to a party where there is an open and clear expectation of compensation is not only remarkable but also reprehensible. This form of clientilism is common in weak democracies and clan communities where the votes of whole groups are sold to candidates or parties offering money, work or other forms of benefit. It is both reasonable and desirable to ask whether it is compatible with democratic principles that a special interest, in return for payment to the party responsible for the state, has an enormous influence on the policy being pursued. For that is actually what happens when, year after year, LO and its trade unions give millions and millions to the Social Democratic Party. It is money that is undoubtedly linked to political demands. It is usually considered that democracy means that the people rule the country via elected representatives. However, the question is whether it is what happens when special interests such as LO can give support to the government party and then influence the policy pursued. The idea of the people that governs is eliminated, and it is ultimately the elite of the labour movement that governs. The question remains: does the Minister for Democracy not see any problem with legal persons offering money and a whole group of votes to a government party with such a clear expectation of compensation?
i-288ba148bd50293e-673	Madam President, I would like The organisations in the labour market, like political parties, are organised as non-profit associations. They are democratically built, which means that their leadership acts on the basis of the mandate given to them by its members. Within the framework of association democracy, in this case, it is the members of the trade union who ultimately decide whether the association wants to support, for example, a particular political party economically or otherwise. I think it is important to state that one of the fundamental principles of an open and liberal democracy is that the state should not regulate or control what civil society organisations think, think or do. Each individual has the right to be a member of any association or organisation they want. It is important to point out that no one should be forced to join an association against their will. I would like to point out that the Constitutional Committee has in the near future assessed that it would be inappropriate in relation to the freedom of association to introduce provisions restricting what organisations in the labour market may use their funds or intervene in the decision-making processes of non-profit organisations. I share this assessment. It is important to emphasise that information on financial support provided by labour market organisations to parties is open on Kammarkollegiet's website since 2014. And the law on transparency in the financing of parties was extended in 2018 to include parties at local and regional level. It is important that we continue to maintain this transparency.
i-288ba148bd50293e-677	Madam President, I would like In the 1990s, union membership of the Social Democrats abolished collective agreements. Before that, trade unions were able to join their members directly to the Social Democratic Party without asking permission first. An environmental party or, for that matter, a moderate could thus be forced to become a member of the Social Democrats. Thankfully, that time has passed, but at the same time I think there are echoes left. We need to fix these things. In the autumn elections, only 41 per cent of LO members voted for the Social Democrats. Yet the trade union continues to spend money on the party. The Minister for Democracy referred to what the Constitutional Committee had taken a position on and which does not really have to do with the question of whether you can buy political services or political influence. It is more about what you do with the members' money, and it is really two different things. As the rules are designed today and as the Minister for Democracy said, a member of the union cannot decide for himself whether the paid membership fee should go to support the Social Democrats. During the election campaign, the Minister for Democracy must also have come across union members who did not vote for the Social Democrats and who, in despair, said: Why, then, should my membership money go to support that party? Of course, being a member of a particular organisation in the labour market is voluntary. On the other hand, I believe that we both recognise that the special position of labour market organisations in the field of labour law means that in many cases the possibility of remaining outside the organisations appears to be a less advantageous option for the individual worker. The main reason for membership of a trade union is probably not usually political, and then the individual should have the opportunity to decide whether he or she wants the membership fee to be used to support a particular party financially. I think it should be self-evident that, as an individual member, if any part of my union membership fee is to go to a political party, I should have to give written consent to this. It is not reasonable that in 2019 we in Sweden should have a regulatory framework that aims to strengthen an individual party's cash register at the expense of the wishes of the individual union member. I would like to turn the matter around and ask a little rhetorically: how appropriate is the current form of legislation? How appropriate is it that the wishes of individuals should not be heeded, in favour of the Social Democratic Party treasury? There is every possibility of introducing consent rules in Sweden as well. Look at Denmark! There are already such rules in place.
i-288ba148bd50293e-683	Madam President, I would like First of all, I do not share Mattias Karlsson's view that trade unions today have the opportunity to buy legislation and influence over political parties. Rather, it is the obvious right of any association or organisation to carry out advocacy work against political parties. Any association or organisation is also fully entitled to engage in dialogue with its members on parties and party political issues and to make independent decisions on how to use their financial resources. The essence of the assessment made by both the investigation and the Constitutional Committee in the near future was that it would be inappropriate in relation to the freedom of association to introduce provisions limiting what organisations in the labour market may use their funds to or intervene in the decision-making processes of non-profit organisations. I would like to point out that in Sweden the trade unions, like the political parties, are independent and democratically structured organisations. None of the organisations can force the others to pursue matters contrary to the will of their own members. In an open and liberal democracy, it is reasonable for associations and organisations to have the right to cooperate, support and engage in dialogue with each other.
i-288ba148bd50293e-686	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to the Minister for Democracy that I share her view in part. But the question here is about what the trade unions have been out and said and also been very mediated with: they are prepared to leave the money to the Social Democratic Party and ensure that at least 250 000 of the members vote for the Social Democrats. In exchange, they demand this service: some legislation. In the run-up to the elections, they said, among other things, that the Social Democrats would promise to abolish fixed-term contracts. I find it problematic when you so clearly demand a return service. In connection with the parliamentary elections in September, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE, for the first time sent election observers to Sweden. In its report, which has now been published, the organisation criticises how the elections here in Sweden were conducted and notes that Sweden does not comply with the UN conventions against corruption. The OSSE writes that unregulated participation by third-party actors such as LO in the election campaign could jeopardise the transparency of political funding. The organisation therefore proposed that Sweden introduce legislation that limits the possibilities for LO to do so. I think it is fundamentally necessary to ask whether it is not only a moral but also a legal error for LO to demand compensation in order to deliver its support to the Social Democrats. I have great hopes that the Minister for Democracy is nevertheless prepared to look at the criticisms that came from the OSSE and take initiatives to limit LO's ability to demand compensation for its financial support.
i-288ba148bd50293e-690	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying once again that the legislation that came into force in 2018, in the light of the proposals of the Parliamentary Committee on transparency in the financing of parties, helped to increase the transparency and visibility of the funding of our political system and of our political parties, which is a good thing. I also note that it would be less appropriate, given the freedom of association we have, to go in and regulate the way in which they use their money and go in and impose conditions on how non-profit organisations make their decisions, how they engage in dialogue with political parties and how they express themselves in the public debate. I believe that our open democratic governance should be characterised by a variety of actors who should be active and try to influence the political outcome. They have their full right to do so – highlighting interests, opinions and perspectives. Labour market organisations also play an important role here, and this is fundamentally positive. It contributes to a better and more vibrant democratic dialogue.
