i-670e5f84510687e8-5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to inform you in advance that I have made a small mistake as a new Member and have not written down what reports our requests relate to. I don't know how to handle it. I've just missed this and I'm so sorry. I assumed that our motions in committee were what then came in the speech. I guess I'll have to eat that mistake later. Madam President, I would like We are at a stage in Sweden right now when we have a parliament that has been completely paralyzed for about four months by a migration policy that has divided the House. For a long time, Sweden has had a migration policy with a high reception, which we know does not work. Not only has it been going on since 2015, but it's been going on for about three decades-- about as long as I've been living. I'm 30 years old today. I grew up in one of the outlying areas, with two parents who had come to Sweden. Many say that it was more difficult then to integrate into Sweden. Yes, there were some difficulties, and perhaps it was getting your education validated. But it was not difficult to find a Swedish colleague or to have a Swedish neighbour. It was very easy to integrate 10,000 people. In recent years we have had a reception that has exceeded the rate of 100,000 individuals – per year. In my day Rinkeby was the example of a vulnerable area, but in principle now every town and every small town in Sweden has its own little Rinkeby. There are those who say that migration and integration do not make sense. Then my question to them is: What is there to integrate if no one is to emigrate to Sweden? The Icelanders have hardly anything to integrate, except any IT system or such. They don't have many with foreign backgrounds to integrate. What we are seeing today is a government based on the fact that one thing is agreed, namely what one is against. Sure, there's a lot I'm against, but what are you for? The problems do not disappear because a few points have been written down on an A4 paper. The problems are out in the real world. You can go down to Stockholm metro, sit on any metro line and go out to a final destination and see the problems with integration. Migration and integration go hand in hand. What we Moderates are saying is that we need to control the situation. The government has stated that it wants a parliamentary inquiry in which all parties are invited and it takes a holistic approach to reception. But that investigation, if you listen to Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson, is really about how we are going to make migration policy more generous, that is, to set up a new humanitarian protection group. What we Moderates are saying is that we want to take a holistic approach. One starting point is the arrival – who will come to Sweden? We want a quota refugee system where the most vulnerable can come to Sweden. If you talk about solidarity, you should talk about solidarity for real. The nursing woman with the child can never go to Sweden and is stuck in a refugee camp. She can never get to Sweden. She has neither the economy nor the ability nor the physical capacity to get here. What we are seeing today is an uneven gender balance. It is the most men who go to Sweden. I say it myself, as a man with a background in the Middle East. I'm not saying that men should not go to Sweden. But if Sweden is going to have a feminist foreign policy, how is it that the statistics say otherwise? The statistics say that the majority who come to Sweden are men. You can't lie, because numbers don't lie. When we talk about countries from which people are fleeing, we always say that it is women and small children who are vulnerable. We put our hand out to help and beat our chests because we are a humanitarian power that stands for solidarity and humanism and points out countries that close their borders, but those that come here are not women and children. It's the men. With a quota refugee system, we would have a redistributive mechanism at European level, where more countries than just Sweden assume their responsibilities. That is what we want in the long term. We have a debate in Sweden on the right of asylum, and according to some it means, by definition, that simply because you are seeking asylum you should be granted asylum. However, the right to asylum is about having one's protection needs tested. That doesn't automatically mean you're gonna get a yes. We should stick to how the laws and conventions are defined and not change them because you feel something else. It is many times that I feel that a certain person might have been allowed to stay, but unfortunately – we must have something to relate to. Otherwise, we are in favour of free immigration. If you are in favour of free immigration, you have to be in favour of free immigration, but then you should say it straight off and not keep patching and fixing the systems. What we see today as an example of this is the High School Act. It is not the lone Afghan boys and men as individuals that I want to point out. I understand they're looking for a better life. So would I. It's the system that's the problem. It gives false hopes and signals to them: Sell everything you own and make the death journey – as long as you set foot on Swedish territory, everything will work out! But the truth is, it's just a big lie. We in this House have very large fees– I have never had this good income before – and sit in our sheltered workshop and write some posts on Facebook and Twitter and feel: Now I have made my contribution. But it's not like that. We're talking about people's lives and fates. That is why we Moderates want a migration policy that is linked to integration policy. It shall be a language requirement from day one and shall be subject to supply requirements. Anyone who brings his wife, husband or children here should be able to support them from day one. There's nothing worse than growing up in a home where parents don't know the language, where parents can't make a living, where you see the parents' passivity – now I'm talking about myself – and where there's a better chance that you'll be part of the queue that's outside social services every morning than having your own job to go to. We are talking about human dignity. If you're going to be a good citizen of society, you have to get these tools. Benefits and duty go hand in hand. If I am to enjoy a privilege, I must also do my duty. In order for us to have a welfare society today where people know trust in each other and in what builds our common security system, one must be able to look at theirs with people and say: You got a yes. Welcome! You're one of us. You're my neighbor. Maybe you're my future co-worker. We should not create mistrust in society. That is why we need to put migration policy in order. It's not about the Migration Agency getting breathing space. It is about municipalities and county councils in Sweden getting breathing space. It's about every hospital being given breathing space. I'm gonna give every school breathing space. Because they don't have breathing space. They take the consequences of the decisions we make in this House. As soon as we make a decision in the Swedish Parliament, we shift responsibility to municipalities and county councils in Sweden and to the communities where people live in reality. Madam President, I would like That is why the Moderates support all our reservations, but for time-winning, I would like to support only reservation No 1 in report No 16 – I would like to thank you for the help in sorting out what report this is about. I am new, Madam President. So I'm gonna have to eat this. I can invite the whole committee and the Presidium for cake as a thank you. That being said, the Moderates want a policy that takes responsibility for what applies from arrival to self-sufficiency.
i-670e5f84510687e8-22	Madam President, I would like I look forward to having cake with the committee. We can have coffee more often. It's nice. But that's not why we're here. We are here to discuss migration policies that we discuss once a year in this huge block format. Then we go through everything, from individual, minor details – proposals for changes – to the whole of migration policy. It's a structure you can have a lot of opinions about, but it's at least the way we work. I will begin with the committee's report 16. I would like to endorse Amendments Nos 2 and 45. It is the largest of the four reports we have on the table, which deals with migration policy. It is also called Migration and Asylum Policy. In a way, it is telling that the majority of migration policy revolves around asylum policy in this way. It is also where we see that Sweden's handling of the issue has been broken for a number of decades. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear the Moderates come to their senses more and more year after year and actually talk about the consequences that the policies they themselves have had for our country have had. Outside areas have emerged precisely because it is not possible to integrate many into a society that has a certain potential for integration. It's about human meetings. Then you have to make sure that those meetings can take place. As my colleague Mr Arin mentioned, there was a time when it happened naturally. They ended up in workplaces with colleagues who were part of society. But that is not the way it is today. It hasn't been like that in a very long time. You end up in alienation areas and you're placed in different places. We have a divided society. Madam President, I would like The extreme of this was noticed as we all know in autumn 2015. Then we reached such a situation that in the end everyone had to admit that there is a limit to what we can do. We have a lack of capacity. It was a situation where people were basically just a few days away from setting up tent camps in Sweden. I remember clearly that our party held a press conference and told us that we would soon have to have tents in Sweden. I was asked mocking questions about this. But that evening there was a press release about preparing the Rinkaby field to set up tent camps. Then we were in a crisis. And then, in the end, a number of measures were taken. Among other things, we got temporary legislation in place. The temporary legislation was said to mean that reception was at a minimum level. It doesn't. I'll talk a little more about it. Apart from the fact that it was not at a minimum level from the outset, the temporary legislation has also been relaxed, first with a first high school team which is now completely in the shadow of the further relaxation through the next stage of the Upper Secondary Education Act. Through it, adults who are known to receive or have already been rejected should be given a second chance. So little time remained in the minds of those in power in this country and in this House. It's extremely tragic. Today we are still waiting for an extension of that law. It will come at any time, despite the fact that the stop to submit proposals has already been. It is good to realize that you need to prolong. But the loosenings will still be there. In addition, the reception is not at a minimum level. Sweden still has a much higher level of reception, both per capita and de facto, than many other European countries. Sweden still has regulations that can be tightened. I have highlighted this in several debates in the past. The Swedish Democrats have many different proposals for how we could already, in accordance with current international agreements and EU legislation, minimise the reception of asylum in practice to zero. We can make clear demands for cooperation, we can make demands to describe the route to Sweden, we can draw up lists of safe countries and we can make it clear that if Sweden is not the first safe country to reach, this is not the place to seek asylum. These opportunities are contained in the international agreements that we have signed today. As such permanent legislation obviously needs to be developed, investigated and seriously developed, this year we have put forward a proposal, which is included in reservation 2, to quickly produce a new temporary law. It is not based on the temporary law which has already received criticism and which is relaxed and messy. It is inspired by Denmark, and it is stated that if it does not clearly violate international commitments, the result of an asylum examination shall be a rejection. It will ensure that we go to a minimum level and that it is checked with the international agreements on whether to give asylum in Sweden, whether to do so or whether to resolve the issue in a different way. Madam President, I would like In the report, the committee proposes an announcement to the government. That's good. If I am not mistaken, it is all the alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats who together state that the possibility of expelling foreign criminals exists. This applies to criminals who do not have Swedish citizenship and who are here because they have applied and for a certain reason been allowed to be here. Then we expect them to do what they have said they should do, but instead they commit crimes. The possibility of expelling these foreign criminals must be used to a much greater extent. We would have liked to have seen further steps taken by the Swedish democrats. We have, as you know, put forward proposals to make deportation compulsory in the case of rougher living and that it should always be tested. But at least this is a step in the right direction. Madam President, I would like Before I submit report 16, I would like to mention one of our specific opinions on this matter. During the spring, it has been discussed, among other things, how legally secure trials are and how well one is able to comply with the legislation when, for example, people seeking asylum are tested because they have a different sexual orientation from their home country or because they have converted from one faith to another or have simply left their faith. There is quite a lot of awareness in the committee – unfortunately not in a majority – that we should nevertheless look further at the question of how we ensure that the law is actually complied with. For a long time, I thought we could have a common reservation with the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party. Unfortunately, in the final stage, it was chosen to build the reservation in such a way that it is stated that there are major shortcomings within the Migration Agency that need to be addressed. Within the Swedish Democrats, we state that there are things that are worth investigating, ensuring and clarifying about how this process is done. This needs to be done not least in view of the fact that we still need legal certainty in future. We need to build trust, and we need to know how to assess difficult issues such as these, even in the event of future quota acceptance. It is also necessary if the terrible thing were to happen, which hopefully will never happen, that any of our neighbouring countries would have the idea of persecuting citizens on the basis of sexual orientation or belief. It is important that we have systems in place to ensure that legally secure trials are carried out. It must therefore be possible to sort out all the questions and clarify how these assessments are carried out. Such an investigation shall not be carried out by the Finnish Immigration Service itself. However, we are not prepared to go so far as to say that something definitely and obviously needs to be changed or to state that the Migration Agency is currently doing wrong. That is why we have a special opinion and will abstain from voting on this point. I would like to turn to report 18 on labour migration. In this respect, I would like to endorse Amendment No 2. The issue of the so-called competence demonstrations has been widely debated and discussed. It is an issue in which this committee tried to legislate on its own initiative during the previous parliamentary term. It was a well-meaning attempt, but it didn't go all the way. It is difficult to get legislation in place properly. Then came two judgments from the Migration Court of Appeal, and the matter was put aside a little bit. This was done despite announcements to provide further clarifications in the legislation to make it possible to correct minor errors. This would have made it possible to increase the possibilities for people to stay in the country even if for just a short period of time – an initial stay to work in our country – they have not complied with the rules that have been in place to the letter. These declarations were put aside, and the committee did not ask for anything to be done. Even now, we do not see any requirement to change the legislation. That is what we have in our reservation 2. There is a ready-made proposal. The investigation Minor or minor errors regarding the terms and conditions of work permits are not comprehensive. But this would at least give a small opportunity for something as trivial as being able to correct errors when the Migration Board has told them. It could be small errors that you might not even know had happened. We do not think that one should be expelled because these errors have once existed. Today there is no such possibility. The Swedish Democrats also have a larger motion with several proposals to ensure that it should be attractive to come to Sweden as a worker. We're supposed to be an attractive country for highly skilled people. That goes without saying. We live in a world where many of the most vibrant and fruitful industries are very mobile, not only within but also between countries. We also live in a world where we know that skills shortages can arise temporarily. It is clear that there must be systems to cover these gaps. Much needs to be done, because today we are in a situation where Sweden discourages. High-quality labour does not dare to go to Sweden. One laughs at what incredibly strange legislation we have that allows criminals to stay but shows sharp, highly skilled self-employed workers or workers who contribute to the development of both Sweden and the world at large. Part of this is how much you have previously pressed track changes as an opportunity. Here one can criticise, for example, the former Alliance, which used to highlight that this was a priority area. In alliance policy there was a great deal of pressure on the possibility of changes of track. We know that this is also something that makes it not attractive to go to Sweden as a worker. You make a mix-up. People who come here to work are sometimes told that it is better that they apply for asylum because then they may stay. This doesn't feel worthy, so you don't want to come here and work. We really urge all parties to look at how they discuss this. Finally, in report 19, I would like to support our reservation 2. This report deals with citizenship. Swedish citizenship needs to be upgraded. When I have been out to lecture, I have sometimes been asked what the Swedish Democrats really want. There are well-needs for citizenship. Why do you want to make it so difficult? Then I've answered, "No, what is required for you to become a citizen of Sweden is that you should have been here long enough and that it should have been long enough since you last committed a crime." ..................................................... This is not a reasonable order. The Swedish Democrats make demands on language, social science, that they have supported themselves during the time they have been here and that they have followed all the rules. With the fact that we want to expel people if they commit crimes, it also means that if they commit crimes then their opportunity to become citizens disappears because their right to stay in Sweden has thereby disappeared. The most controversial thing about this reservation, but also what really deserves the most space, is that we think it has now gone so far as to want to see a moratorium on citizenship until we have a serious and thorough policy in this area on the ground. Swedish citizenship is open. It should be open to people who come here and become part of our country. But Swedish citizenship cannot afford to be further devalued by being distributed on the basis of today's inadequate legislation.
i-670e5f84510687e8-52	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating four reports in the area of migration. What is being discussed is the motions that we Members of Parliament submitted during the autumn. But as everyone knows, a lot has happened since then. Of what we in the Center Party have been doing for a long time and which was also included in our motions, a great deal is covered by the January agreement. This means that much of it will become a reality during the term of office. In the area of migration, there are, on the one hand, very concrete measures, such as the talent visa to be introduced. It is time, and it is clear, for this to be done. On the one hand, there are still things that need to be clarified, as other speakers have already mentioned. This is the case, among other things, with the provision of skills, which is still a problem. We have not fully established what we are going to do to put an end to this. It requires that we gather all the expertise and knowledge available in this area and ensure that we get good action on the ground. Once we put our foot down and do something, we will correct the problems that exist without creating new ones at the same time. If you quickly pull on some cool word that sounds like it's going to fix it all, the risk is that you simultaneously create other challenges. As Paula Bieler also said, the problem of the skills demonstrations has been going on for a long time. Things have happened in the course of time. We have seen that the problem has been reduced, but we still have cases that are totally unreasonable. This isn't easy. No one I have spoken to – and I have spoken to a lot of people who are familiar with the issue – says that this can be resolved with a quick and simple change, but here an investigation will be required. We have been criticised for the fact that there are a lot of investigations in the January agreement. For me, it's totally obvious. If you want a well thought-out and good legislation, you also need to examine the proposals that are coming. You can't just sit down and write them into the law and believe that you have thereby corrected something. However, what is being done in this area must not lead to making it easier for people to abuse the system and exploit workers. It is often about desperate people who come here because it is their only chance of livelihood. It is therefore also important to find a balance. Nevertheless, I would say that the most important point in the January agreement in the area of migration is the establishment of a parliamentary committee. That was something that we in the Center Party, and several other parties in this House, promised the voters in the elections, that is, that we would sit together and find a broad and sustainable agreement in this area. All migration policy spokespersons are gathered here, and probably we will all be on the committee. I really hope, for real, that we can do something good, that we are able to put forward all our proposals and look at them seriously, lift all the stones, listen to each other, try to understand, hear the arguments and then together build a better and more sustainable system. For us in the Center Party it is important that that system is as humane as possible and that it is also, as many of us have talked about leading, order in the system. It will be as legally secure as possible, the costs will be as low as possible and we will take our responsibility in the world. At the moment, we are all dis cussing what the directives for work should look like. On the part of the Center Party, we believe that this should not be a narrow watered-down compromise. Everyone has to deal with the real problems that there are to deal with. We push hard for that to happen. There is a need for a comprehensive review of the systems which close both small and large gaps, while we are all able to cope with the difficult trade-offs that I have already mentioned. For us there are some inputs that we consider to be particularly important and that we will push forward. We see a great need to steer from dangerous to legal ways for those seeking protection. To be able to do this, you also need to look at what makes so many choose Sweden. It is an important part of the work. At the same time, we also believe that the resources devoted to providing protection should primarily go to the most vulnerable, with a focus on quota refugees. There is a similarity between us and the Moderates. We also want the Committee to look at how to reduce the costs of receiving people who come here on their own so that resources can be given priority to those who come legally. There are many reasons for that. One is that people should not have to risk their lives to seek security. Another is that criminal organisations are fattened hugely by money coming in that way. We want to put an end to that too. In addition, it is easier to test asylum reasons when people are closer to their home country and have come from the conflict in the near future, when it has not been several years where they have lived in many different places on the road. Some of the proposals we have presented in the past, which also deal with how resources should be prioritised, are about providing establishment loans instead of grants – that people should qualify through work into some of the welfare systems. However, there are also other elements that deal with how to ensure that the asylum system is legally secure so that we know that those who actually need protection are allowed to stay while those who do not need protection leave the country. It's really not easy. We in the Center Party defend the right of asylum, but I know that most people in this House do. Then you can look at it in different ways. However, how to protect the right of asylum and how to ensure that people are protected, we must be prepared to discuss. That's what matters. Since the January Agreement covers in various ways several of the motions that were included in our motions, we have chosen not to reserve ourselves on those points, but rather to have written specific statements explaining ourselves. Among other things, the EU must take joint and several responsibility for the reception of refugees, and agreements with third countries must safeguard democratic principles and fundamental human rights. It is a question of all persons in need of protection having the right to family reunification. Here we have taken a step with the temporary law, but this issue also needs to be discussed in the parliamentary committee. Early efforts are incredibly important to speed up integration. We also have claims relating to restrictions on the right to EBO. This is also covered by the January agreement, but there is, of course, much more. However, there are also some elements in which we believe that the Riksdag should urge the Government to take swift action and which we therefore believe goes beyond the January agreement. We think it is a good thing that the Alliance's claims that expulsion should be tried more often in the event of a crime have received a majority in committee. It will now be an announcement to the government. We also believe that an investigation needs to be set up to review how the asylum process for converts, atheists and LGBT people can become more legally secure. At the same time, consideration should be given to improving the assessment of the security situation in different countries. I am in favour of reservation 23 in the SfU report16. Otherwise, I refer to our specific opinions.
i-670e5f84510687e8-70	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johanna Jönsson, for the speech and the approach to a serious and broad parliamentary committee. In any case, I understand that the Centre Party is really serious about having all parties represented and that the work is to be done in a real, comprehensive and serious way. That is why I really only have one brief and small question. The speech said something about the Center Party's view that there should not be a narrow investigation. Will the January Agreement fall if it does, as everything points to in Social Democratic statements?
i-670e5f84510687e8-72	Madam President, I would like What has been said by the Minister for Migration is not something that has been decided jointly. It is either the government's or the Social Democrats' entry into the negotiations that we are now conducting on the directives. If we were to break the whole cooperation and the whole January agreement on this basis, I think that Paula Bieler understands that I cannot say anything about this at the moment. This is something we will have to discuss depending on how the cooperation goes in all parts. At the moment, I think it is constructive and good that the government is listening to our views and that it has been prepared to take various steps into account. So far, we are really in the start-up phase, but it takes something that has to go fast. The directives must be ready in the spring. I'll be tough in the negotiations. A narrow investigation in this situation, where all parties should talk about only predetermined points that Morgan Johansson thinks should be involved, is completely unreasonable. The Center Party went to elections to make a proper case on these issues. It's really needed. Everyone in this House and most people out there know that the work needs to be done. In that situation, it is completely unserious to destroy such a chance by narrowing the work too much. We're going to push hard, and we're doing it already. Of course, we hope we land right. What happens if we don't, we'll see.
i-670e5f84510687e8-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We'll have to wait and see. I note that it still claims to be strongly bound by what it has promised, what it says here and now and has said since the agreement came into force. Johanna Jönsson himself understood that there are issues that are more urgent. Not everything can wait for a long serious investigation and the necessary permanent processing. The example highlighted is, among other things, the issue of conversion and ensuring legal certainty. But then there are, for example, skills demonstrations. There is at least one partial proposal – we both know that it will not solve everything – that is finished. It was done last spring. The current Alliance and we said together there that we would demand that the proposal should be implemented during the summer. Is that at least the proposal prepared to go forward? Are there any other areas that the Center Party thinks are so pressing? In fact, there is still a strained situation in many parts of the country. Not least, our municipalities are witnessing a great deal of strain at the moment, due to, among other things, secondary legislation and many other aspects. Are there more questions than the convertite issue that the Center Party believes should be focused on quickly? Who? And how far is it prepared to go to force action in these areas?
i-670e5f84510687e8-81	Madam President, I would like Now the announcements that we can make here are based on the motions that were raised last autumn. There was just the question of conversion in a motion. As far as the skills demonstrations are concerned, I really think it is important that we do not do a little bit at a time but that we now look at it as a whole and do it smartly. As I said, there is always a risk when you remove the obstacles that at the same time you open up to abuse and exploitation. There is a certain logic in that when the Migration Board itself has pointed out that there are shortcomings, one cannot just say: Well, oh! I had no idea. Now I'm correcting it. This is true in situations where abuse and exploitation are actually involved. You have to get a smart balance in it. I'm all for removing obstacles. But it must not lead to the system being used in any way. This has to be quick. It is also dated. There shall be measures in place in January 2021. It is still fast if you make sure that an investigation needs to be done. It's not fast enough. We have said that we wanted a stop law on this. It is now two years ago that we proposed it. Of course we would have liked to have gone much further. Now we have the deal in place. We will protect it as far as we can. It gives us an opportunity to obtain a majority and to take good action in this area. It was asked whether there are other areas where more is needed. Yes, absolutely. We will continue to feed this into debates, via the media and also directly to the government and say: make proposals in this area. It is of course very important that things are done outside the January agreement.
i-670e5f84510687e8-86	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Johanna Jönsson for her speech. Madam President, I would like My question to Johanna Jönsson is about competence exhibitions. There we agree, despite everything that has happened here and the betrayal we experienced last autumn. Nevertheless, I am thinking of the commitment shown by the Center Party to labour immigrants who have been mistreated. My question has its background in my interpellation debate with Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. Listening to the Minister for Migration, he sounded very pleased. He referred to a few figures. It was 98% who made it. We don't have a problem. But we know what reality looks like. People are being expelled because the employer has failed to take out health insurance or has made a wrong payment. You may think that you, like your colleagues, can postpone extra holiday days and save them as a competion for the next year, but the regulations say something completely different. Madam President, I would like My question to Johanna Jönsson is: How long does the Center Party have patience on this issue?
i-670e5f84510687e8-91	Madam President, I would like I myself am surprised how far my patience has already been, as we have been working on this year after year. This applies to all the meetings that I have had and all the times that I have heard the Social Democrats say that they should correct it and that, in principle, nothing has been done. Then it is clear that my patience and that of the Center Party are beginning to fail, just as I know that the Moderates do. We have really worked side by side when it comes to the skills exhibitions. We now have a point in the January agreement on this very subject. It is time to until January 2021. I would say that my patience will cease from time to time. If we don't have something really good in place then it's clear that we have to move on and make sure that things are done. Earlier on the initiative of us in the Center Party, we have tried to make law here in the Swedish Parliament to do something about the problem. Unfortunately, we do not have an organisation here that did it well. It's very boring and something you should look at. It is about how we can ensure that a majority in the Swedish Parliament can ensure that things are done when the government refuses to listen to our announcements. This issue is incredibly important. Sometimes I hear people say: It's only about one or two people. Is it that bad for them? That's not what this is about. It is about Sweden's competitiveness and Swedish companies who say: We may not be able to keep our offices here because we cannot hire staff. It's about the rumor has spread around the world that this is a country that you shouldn't go to at all. We have to fix it. We need to send out signals that we want to correct it. But we also need to do things in concrete terms. My patience is not very far in this area. But, as I said, we are defending the agreement and the deadline set there.
i-670e5f84510687e8-96	Madam President, I would like Then I can take Johanna Jönsson at her word. We do not agree on certain other elements of migration policy. But at least you know in advance where she stands. Here, too, I have to trust that Johanna Jönsson will stick to her stubbornness in this matter. Having said that, I am not going to prolong the debate. I just wanted to hear Johanna Jönsson's position on the matter. We'll get back to you. Hopefully, the Center Party will get through this issue much earlier than 2021.
i-670e5f84510687e8-98	Madam President, I would like I would just like to take the opportunity to say that the debate is not over in this area. Just as Mr Arin experienced in his interpellation debate with the Minister for Migration, there are still different views on how big the problem is and what to do about it. There we need all the help we need to push the government and, above all, the Social Democrats so that we can land right here. I hope that we can continue working together to make this as good as possible. We will do so with the January agreement but also in very many different ways both with other parties in here and with many organisations outside the Chamber involved in the matter. Thanks for the line shift!
i-670e5f84510687e8-100	Madam President, I would like It is a very big and luxuriant debate that we are going to have today. There are four reports dealing with as diverse and large areas as the whole migration policy, family immigration, labour immigration and citizenship – all in one comprehensive debate. I would therefore like to start by saying that unfortunately I will not be able to touch on exactly all areas. I will focus on the things that I think are absolutely the most urgent and necessary here today. I hope that we will have reason and opportunity, for example, to discuss European policy much more now in the run-up to the European elections and so on. Of course, I agree with all our requests, but for time I would like to mention now what reservations I propose so that it is resolved. In SfU16, I support reservation No 3. In SfU17, I am in favour of reservation No 2. In SfU18, I refer to our specific opinion and previous motions on labour immigration. Last but not least, in SfU19, I am in favour of reservation No 3. Madam President, I would like Last Friday, a good friend of mine got in touch with me. She is one of the very many people around the country who have engaged in the reception of unaccompanied minors. They have opened their homes as voluntary family homes and taken up where politics and authorities have failed and fallen. She's comforted. She's been peping. She has built up the confidence and ability of young people to land in the new society while they have had their applications. She has helped them go to school and be equipped for the future. On Friday, however, she had to say good-bye to three of the young people who have been threatened with expulsion have now moved on to Europe to France, like so many others with them. She was in a state of despair. She felt betrayed, and she felt that politics has in no way seen the great work that civil society has been trying to do. For in the tent camps under the bridges in Paris we see one of the results of the Swedish migration policy in recent years. There, young people who speak Swedish now live in sounding Norrbottenian, Gothenburgian or valley destinations. The vulnerability that we have seen among lonecomers in homelessness in Sweden in recent years is now proliferating in Europe. The Church of Sweden in Paris is trying to patch up and alleviate where politics has released. Madam President, I would like There are many reasons for an amnesty for children and young people who have come on their own. I would particularly like to highlight seven here today. Firstly, it concerns the reversals, the temporary law and the patchwork of secondary legislation. Legislation has been unpredictable and retroactive. Great injustices have been exposed because only days can distinguish between arrival and the possibility of staying between children and young people. When the government turned around and presented the temporary law, it was said that children would be exempted and continued to receive permanent residence permits. That's not what happened. Instead, the Finnish Immigration Service changed the practice and granted temporary residence permits, which meant that the unaccompanied persons can be given expulsion decisions as soon as they become adults, i.e. when they turn 18. Moreover, it is clear that the use of precisely the date of the government press conference in further legislation has created great legal uncertainty. Secondly, age assessments are an entirely separate chapter of legal uncertainty that I could talk about for a very long time. I would just like to point out that medical age assessments, which have led to age variations for young people and thus reduced residence permits, are highly questionable by the medical and, more recently, also the statistical expertise. We have followed this in great revelations in Svenska Dagbladet. This is another factor which calls into question the safety assessments that have been carried out. In a magic spell, a misjudgement of a child as an adult may cause the possibility of protection to disappear with a pencil line. Thirdly, the long waiting periods at the Finnish Immigration Service have similarly allowed children who had been granted protection if their application was processed to wait for years. With the natural passage of time, they have turned 18 and thus lost the right to protection that they possibly had on arrival. Fourthly, the situation in Afghanistan is very serious. I am talking a little generalizing about Afghanistan, because that is where the large group of unaccompanied minors come from. We see a security situation deteriorating, where the state lacks the will or ability to protect the population from violence, persecution and discrimination. One also lacks the will or ability to give the population access to the security and basic public services they need. We also know, Madam President, that it is against this background that both the Red Cross and Amnesty International are calling for an end to forced expulsion to Afghanistan. In their view, it is neither relevant nor reasonable to refer to an IDP for any forced expulsion anywhere in the country. It is in the light of this, Madam President, that we must see the opportunity for unaccompanied minors to return to Afghanistan. In a country such as Afghanistan, with weak central power, civil war, chaos and corruption, the social protection net is a clear means of survival. The more uncertain a country is, the stronger the need for access to social networks for protection and survival. However, a large number – 10 000 – of the Afghan-origin unaccompanied minors who have come to Sweden have stayed in a country completely different from Afghanistan before fleeing to Sweden, very often Iran or Pakistan. This means that they have no real connection to Afghanistan and do not have the important and crucial social safety net needed to live there. However, they are, of course, Afghan citizens in formal and international law. Despite this lack of network, they are still seen by the Migration Board as any average Afghan, and it does not work! Organisations on the ground report that 85 percent of all those who return under coercion are forced to flee the country a second time. Fifthly, there is a special group of unaccompanied minors who often find themselves somewhat obscured. They are the children who came here when they were 12 to 14 years old or younger and whose age has never been close to being questioned. Some of these children have been refused their asylum application but cannot be expelled because there is no organised reception in the form of family or state care. Now they live their lives here in new families. They go to school, sports and grow up with the realization that they may be expelled on the 18th anniversary. It is both shocking and terrible for the individual child and also for their families and friends. Sixthly, what is this doing to society and to us? During the time that the latest High School Act has been tested and applications by young people have been processed, a huge vulnerability and homelessness have emerged. Everyone in this House should be well aware of why this happened. It is the majority in Parliament that has voted for the severe restrictions in the LMA law that have led to young people being put on the street. I have recently met desperate teachers who are trying to get their students to continue to finish high school even though they are homeless and sleep in night buses, public toilets or where there is a bed for one night or two. I have met frustrated police officers who tell me about caring young people who, within only months of falling into homelessness, end up in the clutches of criminal predators who exploit them in prostitution, drug trafficking or other crime. The police see them become drug addicts and both subject to crime and of course become part of crime themselves. The mental illness with self-harm and suicide should not even start talking about. Suicide among unaccompanied minors is nine times as common as among other young people of the same age. There is often talk of shadow societies in this House, but the fact is that the condition for this particular part of shadow society has been created by the majority in this House itself. The amendments to the LMA Act lead to this particular kind of vulnerability. We warned against this already when they were presented, and we pointed out the fact that has also been highlighted in reports from the Red Cross in particular, which works a lot on return: that the withdrawal of compensation and the withdrawal of accommodation do not lead to more effective return but only to misery. Seventhly, I would like to raise the question of what society loses from this treatment of children and young people. It is clear and painfully clear that this treatment of children and young people requires dehumanisation. It is not possible to treat children and young people like this if they see themselves or their own children. Compassion is a high price to pay. But we also lose the strength and effort made in receiving, studying, working, in families who have received – such as my friend who called me on Friday. We're losing their trust. These young people are already part of us and of our society. They are needed in our community building in the future. Madam President, I would like Family immigration is one of the few legal routes to Sweden. In addition, living with your family is a human right. The temporary law has considerably limited this path. If more families on the run were allowed to reunite, it would mean that many people would not have to take life-threatening roads, such as the Mediterranean. It is a good thing that the government now announces that they intend to grant alternative protection beneficiaries the right to family reunification. Extending the temporary law on this particular point would probably be contrary to the European Convention and thus to the Swedish constitution. Of course, I appreciate the fact that the government is now following the Constitution and allowing this group of people to reunite. Otherwise, we will have the opportunity to debate the extension of the temporary law much more later this year. Much of the Left Party's criticism remains. In order to get the right to be reunited with a family member who has been granted a residence permit in Sweden, the person who remains in his or her home country must be interviewed at a Swedish diplomatic mission. This is, for example, difficult or impossible in the case of Syrians. All neighbouring countries whose missions deal with family reunification for Syrians refuse entry or severely restrict opportunities. For example, giving Syrians the opportunity to apply for family reunification electronically or at diplomatic missions in other countries to which they can actually make their way would ensure that the right to family reunification is respected. Madam President, I would like The Left Party does not repeat all the motions every year. We have therefore not been exercising around labour immigration this year, as our special opinion shows. Those who are particularly interested can read more about the Left Party's policy in the area of labour migration in, for example, motion 2016/ 17:1186, where we highlight what needs to be done to create a better and safer labour market for those who have come here to work. What is required is, among other things, that employees are not punished for mistakes committed by employers, that the employment offer that labour immigrants accept before coming to Sweden is given a stronger legal status and that trade union rights are strengthened. Finally, Madam President, I was very concerned about what I would say here today – what could affect Members of Parliament to look up a little and try to see the reality as it is, see the vulnerability and misery that Swedish migration policy has created for the group of children and young people who came here hoping for a life of safety and security, a life free from the daily dangers of war with terror attacks and violence, free from the threat of being forced to marry as a 12-year-old, free from the risk of forced recruitment by Taliban or IS, a life of freedom to go to school, freedom to live openly as a LGBT person, freedom to confess to the god you believe or not to believe at all, yes, freedom to live your life as a child or as a young person. They were met with warmth and care in many places, not least in civil society. In the lottery of long waiting times and patchwork of unpredictable and ever-changing legislation, legal uncertainty of age assessments and incomprehensible safety assessments, some have been allowed to stay. But politics betrayed another group, sometimes with days different from the one who got a residence permit, sometimes with wrong age assessments, sometimes with confidence in a network that does not exist. This group is continued by civil society. Madam President, I think it is high time that this House shouldered that responsibility and put an end to suffering, insecurity and exploitation. Amnesty is not a solution that the Left Party is looking for lightly. When legislation and reception work, it should not be necessary, but in emergency and special situations it may be necessary. That moment is now. The young people who now live their lives as homeless on the streets of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Paris should not reflect our migration policy. Instead, let us make this the story of a country that realized that children and young people have suffered from political decisions and give an amnesty that allows them to enter our societies, our schools and our workplaces!
i-670e5f84510687e8-135	Madam President, I would like I wasn't going to ask for a line; it was probably now in the last few seconds that it came into being. But it was also caused by Christina Höj Larsen saying that she really wanted us to listen. I believe that we are making a mistake if we do not believe that everyone in this House sees the misery and the problems. That is not the crux here, but that is that we see different backgrounds that it has become as it has become and also different ways out of it. I think that is where we should all start in order to achieve fruitful changes in the future. It is against this background that I would like to ask my question. We have debated this question many times, and I have previously asked Christina Höj Larsen about amnesties, whether we should have rules or not and how to get them to be followed. I know that in many ways it is an extraordinary situation that we have had. It took one to get more people to talk about many of the problems. But part of that was that there was a limit to how many could come to our system, as it was then built up. Such a limit will exist regardless of the system – if you do not have completely free immigration, which none of our parties, after all, advocate. My question is therefore: What measures does Christina Höj Larsen want to see – I will not ask if she sees the risk; we have taken this in previous debates – to ensure that an amnesty, if we should now implement such a thing in this situation as the Left Party wants, will not be an incentive in itself for further waves to choose Sweden because we know that when there is a crisis, Sweden will ignore its legislation and give amnesty? What does the Left Party see as a way around this incentive?
i-670e5f84510687e8-140	Madam President, I would like Amnesty is a thing that has historically been used in Sweden when it has been a great peak. We saw it around 2004. It has also been used in other European countries. That is precisely why I believe and know that this is not a factor that makes fewer or more people go to Sweden. We have seen, both in Europe and in Sweden, that this is not what it is all about. What it's all about is creating a society that can actually withstand change. Here I think there are huge differences between how the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party view a strong and stable society with a strong welfare that can handle this. It is not, Madam President, people fleeing the Syria of war who have created, for example, today's unfair pension system; there is a majority here in Parliament. It is not the sole descendants of Afghanistan who have made the budget that now gives the richest 23 times more than the poorest; it is the Swedish Democrats along with parts of the bourgeoisie. It is not the exclusives who now want to abolish the military tax so that Sweden's richest directors get a tax cut of 67 000 per month; it is the government together with the Center Party and the Liberals. That is where the conflict is: What is a strong society? How do we get a strong welfare that can cope with change? Whether it is a question of refugee reception, a major natural disaster or other types of crisis, we need a strong society. I, for my part, choose to put forward a policy of redeployment, in which we ensure that it is actually possible to have a well-being. What I see from the Swedish Democrats is that you choose to blame those who came most recently rather than those who are actually responsible.
i-670e5f84510687e8-145	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christina Höj Larsen, for the hope that this will not lead to additional incentives to get here. We are simply making different assessments of what has happened historically. It is quite clear to me that the legislation we have had and the argument that has unfortunately been put forward, among other things, from certain sections of civil society, which have in principle promised things that the legislator then felt obliged to implement, such as the secondary legislation, have led to a picture of Sweden that affects who is seeking to get here and who is seeking to go to other countries. I don't think we're going to get any further, so I don't have a follow-up question. However, I note that Christina Höja Larsen should look at our budget. If she looks properly, she may see that we actually have a clear and generous redistribution system, that the big winners with our budget are women and older people who have a weak economy and that we blame not individuals who have come here but a policy that has been allowed to run, a policy in which, without any plan, more and more has been invested in one area, migration policy, and thus had to be re-priorised in other areas. Then Christina Höja Larsen and her party colleagues should also consider the support that they give, passively or actively, to a government and a budget that will cut in, for example, investments on the elderly and vulnerable because it is still invested in areas, including migration policy, where you do not have a proper plan. I guess it's a contribution rather than a follow-up question.
i-670e5f84510687e8-148	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I have looked at the Swedish Democrats' budget. I see that year after year huge cuts are being made in the municipal budget – huge cuts for the municipalities in particular, which are responsible for our elderly, for schools and for important public services. That's what I see. When I see news today that Attendo at one of his care homes at night has 52 dementias on 2 employees and at the same time makes big profits, I also know that the Swedish Democrats are just such a party that thinks it's okay. You let the profits continue to rush out, put them in the pockets of the richest, blame others who have just arrived – and at the same time have the nerve to cut the municipal budget! That is what I see when I see the Swedish Democrats' budget, and it is nothing nice.
i-SKaDc7tfTijPwe1KEnqoL9	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations that the Christian Democrats have, but for time, I only support reservations 20 and 23 in SfU16, reservation 3 in SfU17, reservation 1 in SfU 18 and reservation 4 in SfU19. Madam President, I would like It is a challenge to debate four different areas of migration policy at the same time, but we should actually also discuss integration policy. In fact, when integration policy does not work, the legitimacy of migration policy is undermined, and then it is never good enough to say such fine words. The success of integration is what ultimately makes it possible for us to have room for someone else, not for anyone less. Our asylum system will provide protection for fugitives from war and persecution. It is my firm conviction that by designing a long-term sustainable migration policy, based on order and order, we can continue to be an open country. That is why those who have been rejected should also leave the country. In recent years, we Christian Democrats have been a very active party in trying to find tools, if we call them so, in migration policy in order to be able to deal effectively, but also legally, with the new reality that has come upon us. We took action when we saw that the Swedish and the European asylum system were under pressure. In December 2014, we announced that we believe that those granted asylum in Sweden should, as a general rule, be granted temporary residence permits. We wanted to see a rapid process of rejection for those who were asylum seekers from so-called safe countries. We also proposed a number of measures to ensure that asylum seekers are quickly self-sufficient. At first, those proposals were severely criticised, not least by Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, who felt that it was quite the wrong entrance. But he and the government came to change their minds. We could therefore, six parties together, conclude an agreement in October 2015, with some of the measures for which we have been criticised included. We saw that there was a need for more measures. Only a month later, therefore, the party presented proposals for the introduction of temporary border controls and proposals for more effective expulsions. We also wanted to set up a crisis commission. This time too, we received criticism, but we know that the reversal has come and that a completely new migration policy has then taken place in our country. The temporary law, which we will debate a little later and not here and now, has been partly in favour of on the part of the Christian Democrats, but we have also made a clear criticism of it. We opposed the restriction of family reunification. We want to maintain extraordinary and particularly sensitive reasons. We believe that the temporary residence permit for alternative protection is too short. We then rejected the 2017 supplement on residence permits for upper secondary school studies. We believe that special rules should not be laid down for a particular group. Here it was quite testing, I think, that the people who followed the rules, who accepted government decisions and who did not have a voice as strong did not get a second chance. This is a very short description, Madam President, of some intense years in Swedish politics when the political system made a number of different decisions. It's been patched and fixed. Now we will have a parliamentary committee on future migration policy. That's good. This is something that we have repeatedly called for. Here we Christian Democrats are to be an active and constructive party to bring about a long-term migration policy characterised by the rule of law. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats often come back to this with legal certainty. Anyone who has followed the debate and the tours around, for example, the handling of converts knows that we have made criticisms of what the process has been like in terms of how to assess whether a so-called conversion has taken place or not. We have pointed out that knowledge issues are misleading because Christian faith is fundamentally relationshipal. A person is not a Christian because he or she knows that there are 66 books in the Bible but because he or she believes that Jesus is his or her Savior. I presented a committee initiative to the Social Security Committee. It was a matter of giving the government the task of expediting the examination of converts, atheists and apostates in order to ensure legal certainty. On 14 March, the government announced that it had amended the Migration Board's regulations to ensure legal certainty and uniform application in cases in which religious opinion was invoked. This is an important and correct measure. Not least, the report on the Convertit investigation shows just that. It is an investigation initiated by the Pentecostal Movement, but has been assisted by the Equmenia Church, Evangelical Free Church, the Swedish Alliance Mission and the Seventh-Day Adventist Society. The report shows notable differences in the assessment of converters in different parts of the country – that is, it points to a possible lack of uniform application. So there is every reason to continue to monitor this issue. I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 23 in the SfU16, which we Christian Democrats support together with the Center Party and the Left Party. The conversion issue highlights something else important: Sweden needs an inspection for migration issues, an inspection that promotes legal certainty and efficiency throughout the migration process. The objective of such an inspection is to detect systemic deficiencies, thereby ensuring legal certainty for the individual and ensuring effective cooperation between the various authorities. If this concerns reservation 20, concerning the asylum process, in SfU16. I therefore support it. Madam President, I would like We have a so - called two - year rule that has its origins in trying to get to fake marriages. There are examples of men who systematically exploit foreign women by starting a relationship. The law has been amended, but this has not meant that the situation of women has improved to the intended extent. In the report Women and Children in the borderland of the Court, the investigator points out that thousands of women every year seek help after they have been subjected to violence by their husbands. There are a number of additional measures that are needed. These are excerpts and checks on reference persons. This is subject to reservation 3 in the SfU17, which the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats support and which I support. Madam President, I would like It is beyond doubt that we need access to skilled labour. Sweden has exported words like smorgasbord – or smorgasbord – and ombudsman. Now, according to the international business magazine Forbes, we are exporting a new word: skills exhibitions. Don't let Sweden become known that we are expelling skilled labour from Sweden because of insignificant misdemeanours! We must reduce the regulatory burden, reduce waiting times and remove these expulsions, which damage our economy and our ability to be competitive in the future. This concerns reservation 1 in the SfU18, which is supported by Christian Democrats and Moderates. I'm in favour of it. Last but not least, it is about citizenship. It is something that involves both rights and obligations. Citizenship, we mean Christian Democrats, should be seen as a goal and not as a means. For this reason, we want to enhance the importance of citizenship. We think it is perfectly reasonable that those who apply for citizenship have undergone education in social orientation and have lived a decent life. Those who become citizens of Sweden cannot and will not, of course, leave their heritage completely behind, but they will take the custom where they come from. This is subject to paragraph 4 of the SfU19, and I call for it to be approved.
i-670e5f84510687e8-171	Madam President, I would like Tens of millions of people are on the run in the world today. At the same time, wars and conflicts are raging and new refugee disasters are being created. The war in Syria is continuing, and in Syria's neighbouring countries Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Kurdistan and Iraq, millions of refugees are being crowded today. At least 3 million people have been forced to leave their homes in Venezuela, where communist drug bandits have destroyed the country. Right now, fighting is escalating in Libya. In addition, two major countries, Algeria and Sudan, are now on the brink of a revolution in which their undemocratic, corrupt leaders are driven from power. New conflicts are being put on top of old conflicts. In many parts of the world, second, third, and sometimes even fourth generation live in refugee camps. In small areas and under tight conditions families are forced to live year after year. There are children born – there will be new children without the areas really growing. There children grow up, in many cases without the possibility of functioning schooling, sanitation, medical care and so on. This refugee life or life is tearing up families and overturning social order. It is of course also a breeding ground for new conflicts because many people in the camps, especially young people, can easily be recruited into militant groups and so on. Madam President, I would like At the same time, humanitarian aid is very neglected. United Nations humanitarian aid programme, Unocha, World Food Programme, UNHCR and so on suffer from chronic underfunding. Many of the appeals brought by the UN – appeals to help refugees in various conflicts around the world – are not even financed half of the year's needs. Many countries that have the capacity to help refugees do not. They do not care to conclude agreements with UNHCR on becoming programme countries and accepting refugees. Nor do they care about building capacity to help people who come. This is, of course, a major concern. The situation of refugees in the world today is in no way declining. On the contrary, it will continue for many years, probably for the rest of our lives. Madam President, I would like Sweden has for many years taken a great responsibility to help people escape. We have taken a much greater responsibility than many other countries have done. And we shall continue to do so; we shall continue to assume our responsibilities, and that must be done in a long-term and sustainable manner. We will abide by the right of asylum, and we will give a dignified reception to asylum seekers and new arrivals. At the same time, Sweden must take strong action to ensure that other countries also assume their responsibilities. If countries in Europe are helped to shoulder their responsibilities, the flows of refugees will also be manageable. However, if some countries, such as Sweden, Germany and some countries, take on a much greater responsibility than others in the northern part of Europe, the situation will not be sustainable either in the short or in the long term. We have major challenges in our country in terms of asylum policy, reception and integration of people who can then stay in Sweden. There's no housing. In a number of areas in Sweden, school and social services find it difficult to complete their basic assignments. There is a lack of interpreters, and many asylum seekers also testify to insecure housing – to name a few. We also see a growing exclusion where large groups of people who have recently come to Sweden find it difficult to enter the labour market. People are forced into undeclared work, where they have no real rights, and are fooled by rogue employers. Many have also been in debt in order to be able to come to Sweden and then have to pay off these debts when they are here in the country. In addition, we see a growing group of people who have been refused asylum applications, and who are therefore not entitled to stay in Sweden, but who refuse to leave the country and have gone underground. Many expulsions are also difficult to execute as a result of unclear identities and because the home countries are not interested in receiving their citizens. Madam President, I would like Liberals represent a dignified and decent migration policy, where we in Sweden take our responsibility and invest in the integration of new arrivals. At the same time, we believe that Sweden cannot conduct a refugee policy that differs greatly from other countries in our neighbourhood. We must be able to provide long-term good conditions for our new residents to get housing and jobs and to be included in our society. We have high ambitions for Sweden, and I think we can all agree that we should have that in this House. We shall have very high ambitions for Sweden, for our standard of living here and for our opportunities here in our country. This means that we do not want to contribute to the creation of new proletariat with alienation and stigmatisation, as a result. This means that we must have immigration to Sweden that is at levels that our society can also manage. A parliamentary committee will now be created to ensure that Sweden can achieve a sustainable and functioning migration policy in the long term. We welcome this from the Liberals, and we also argued in favour of this in the electoral movement. For integration to work, it is important that people learn the Swedish language. It is of course difficult to get a job in Sweden if you do not understand our language and if you cannot speak Swedish. That is why we from the Liberals – even a long time before, when we were called the People's Party – have argued for the importance of upgrading the Swedish language. We have also said that we want to see a language test when applying for citizenship. For eight years in the alliance government, we tried to bring this about, but we were opposed by the other parties in the coalition. Now, however, it looks like it will finally be possible to become a reality with a language test thanks to the January agreement. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about the importance of labour migration to Sweden. Many companies find it difficult to find new employees. The problem of skills supply is affecting our economy. It is therefore, of course, important that our industry can recruit people abroad as well. This does not threaten jobs in Sweden. It does not threaten the jobs of the indigenous population; on the contrary, it contributes to a greater dynamism of our economy, to the growth of our economy and to the creation of new jobs. However, there are now a number of problems in terms of work permits, the possibilities of renewing work permits and the possibility of changing employers during the time you have a work permit. The most obvious problem is, of course, the so-called competence demonstrations, which have also been mentioned by previous speakers in their speeches. For many years we in the Liberals have been working to tackle these problems. We also often did so in alliance format during the last parliamentary term. In the January agreement there are now clear wordings to that effect. We must overcome this, and it is now up to the Social Democrats to give serious priority to this issue. It is not reasonable for labour in Sweden to be expelled from here because of less, sometimes almost trivial, mistakes or misdemeanours on the part of the employer. If the employer makes a mistake, it is not the employee who should be expelled from Sweden. There is an absurdity and an illogicality throughout this system. People who live in Sweden, who work here, who pay taxes here and who behave themselves should not be expelled. That should be the starting point. Also, the problems of skills exclusion do not only affect individuals and companies; they also create a bad reputation for Sweden abroad, which can result from well-educated and skilled people instead looking to other countries to work there. This means that we are missing out on important skills for important industries in Sweden, not least the IT and telecommunications sectors, digital companies, start-ups and so on. Madam President, I would like We have a number of reservations and a few specific opinions on the part of the Liberals. I am, of course, in favour of all these, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 11 and 49 in report 16, reservation 13 in report 18 and reservation 6 in report 19.
i-670e5f84510687e8-191	Madam President, I would like Again this time I clicked in for line at the last second. Speaking of the fact that there should be clear wordings about competence demonstrations, I feverishly searched through the version of the factual agreement that I have seen and that you will find if you search online. Paragraph 21 certainly has a problem of skills deportation to be solved as a small introductory heading. After the title, other points have a text that develops it with something concrete. However, point 21 states: a special visa for highly qualified people who want to apply for a job or start a business should be introduced (Investigation 2019. New rules from 1 January 2021). The current labour immigration rules are to be protected. Where are the clear wordings about what it is to investigate, what it is you want to find out and what problems there are? There are much clearer wordings under other points. And are you really going to wait until 2021? Are there no parts you could try to get through sooner than that? This is, as I said, a problem that we have been working on for many years. The last term of office even tried to legislate itself, albeit in a way that, for many reasons, did not come out well – those of us who sat in committee then know what the reasons were. But all of a sudden you can wait until 2021, and so you say that there are clear texts that really do not exist. What's going on in 2021? I am curious about how the Liberals view this, in addition to the question of which the clear wordings are. Is it only 2021 to act, or will you be able to act before then when you know that the investigation does not lead anywhere? Unfortunately, I never had time to ask Johanna Jönsson that question, so it will have Fredrik Malm to answer.
i-670e5f84510687e8-194	Madam President, I would like Now I'm getting a little perplexed. There are no clear wordings, says Paula Bieler. Then she reads a very clear statement that these problems will end. I don't really know what's troubling me. I think it is great that we can now press the Social Democrats, who have been the brake ball, to put up with such wordings that this should now be investigated, so that we can overcome the problems. The next sentence Paula Bieler read out concerns the talent visa. It is about more people being able to come to Sweden, which is not the same thing. A talent visa is a visa given to someone. Competence deportation applies to a person who leaves. That's two different things. I wonder a little bit about the whole question.
i-670e5f84510687e8-196	Madam President, I would like I ask myself exactly the same question. That's why I'm asking the question. We obviously have different opinions here, but I do not think that a finding that this is a problem to be solved is a clear statement about what you want to achieve or what to work out. I do not have a clear description of what the problem really is. This is nothing new either. It boasts that the Social Democrats are being brought along on the track, but the whole committee has for years agreed that this must be resolved. How can you be proud that this has been included in an agreement? What I am asking is what you want to do concretely, Fredrik Malm. To take an even more concrete question: Are you going to wait until January 2021 to react if nothing is reached, or will you react earlier? If so, how will you react? There is much to do on this issue. We've been trying for years. I am in no way safe with a small italic sentence that states what all the politicians in Parliament have agreed on for several years. I want to know what they think is so concrete. What is so much better now than when announcements were made a year and a half ago? According to them, this would have had to be arranged already this summer – otherwise you would certainly take a committee initiative. It didn't turn out to be anything. What is to be done in concrete terms, and what measures will be taken by the Liberals if this is not implemented?
i-670e5f84510687e8-202	Madam President, I would like We liberalised our labour immigration a number of years ago, as the Swedish Democrats know. At the time, the Swedish Democrats were probably opposed to doing so. This liberalisation has enabled people to come to Sweden. A number of concerns have since emerged in the waste water of the legislation introduced and the addition made in 2011. We in the alliance parties have been very clear about the need to deal with the concerns that have arisen. During the last parliamentary term, a number of initiatives were taken by Parliament's Social Security Committee. It is very accurate described by Paula Bieler. Unfortunately, however, the government did not listen. Now we have a clear wording and a timetable for overcoming this. I am one of those from my party who are behind this agreement. This line shift can, so to speak, be pulled with carbon paper from the previous line between Paula Bieler and Johanna Jönsson from the Center Party. Johanna Jönsson was also very clear that these issues are very important for our parties, the Liberals and the Center Party. We will follow the process very closely, and we will not accept that this should in any way fall. In that part, I think Paula Bieler should be safe.
i-LaZUsnqSGxnA8FA2VVYgN4	Madam President, I would like I support the proposals contained in all four reports that we are now debating: migration and asylum policy, family immigration, labour immigration and citizenship, and rejection of all reservations. Migration in the world is increasing, and Sweden is part of that development. A prerequisite for Sweden to be able to manage this development in the long term is a long-term sustainable and legally secure migration policy, while safeguarding the right to asylum. Asylum law is a fundamental right enshrined in international conventions. That the number of asylum seekers who applied to Sweden in 2015 was record high is well known and has been highlighted by many in this debate. It brought challenges and pressures to both municipalities and the relevant authorities, although we could see that the whole of society was committed and made many resources available in that situation. The Swedish rules were therefore adapted by introducing the temporary law, including temporary residence permits, in accordance with the minimum level of EU and international conventions. In addition, temporary identity and border controls were introduced. The measures taken at that time, together with political changes in other countries and within the EU, resulted in considerably fewer people applying for asylum in Sweden in the years following 2015. The Temporary Act is valid until 19 July this year, but the January Agreement announced that the Act will be extended for two years. The draft legislative referral, Extension of the Act on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, states that the Act will be extended until 19 July 2021. The January Agreement also provides, as several speakers have mentioned, for a parliamentary committee to be set up. What is also stated is that family reunification for alternative protection needs should be introduced. The measures taken in response to the very strained situation that arose in 2015 were necessary. Although the situation has now improved, we can see that there are still challenges to deal with for society, such as the establishment of new arrivals. The changes announced in the January Agreement and ongoing changes to the migration acquis at national and EU level, as well as the fact that a parliamentary committee is to be set up, are opposed to making any announcement to the government on future migration legislation. Madam President, I would like Within the EU, negotiations are underway to establish a harmonised asylum system with a more balanced distribution of asylum seekers within the Union. As we have continuously received reports, a great deal remains to be done in order to find a balanced compromise in which all EU Member States jointly and severally take responsibility for receiving people in need of international protection and meeting high standards of legal certainty and safeguarding the right to asylum. More Member States must take a much greater responsibility than they have done so far. The Government is actively working on these issues in the framework of negotiations between the Member States and the European Parliament on the European Common Asylum System. In the ongoing negotiations on the EU's long-term budget, the government is pushing the question that it is not reasonable for countries that do not assume their responsibilities in migration policy to continue to benefit from EU funds to the same extent as today. The issue of Member States implementing decisions taken is a high priority within the EU and must be so. Sweden has long given priority to international efforts to increase the global distribution of responsibilities and the reception of quota refugees by other countries. Resettlement is a well-proven system and the safest way for people in need of protection to come to the EU legally. The inclusion of more people in need of protection as quota refugees offers the most vulnerable people a safe path to security. Resettlement, however, must be seen as a complement and should not replace the individual right of asylum. Sweden is actively pushing for more EU Member States to accept quota refugees and to increase the number of resettlement places. Alternatives to migrant smuggling are needed, and Sweden should continue to work to create more legal ways to enter Europe. In December 2017, the Government presented a study on the conditions for creating legal ways to seek asylum in the EU, which will further investigate the issue of humanitarian visas. The Swedish foreigner's legislation is based on a system of regulated immigration, which is reflected, among other things, in the requirement that a foreigner should, as a general rule, have a visa or residence permit in order to enter and reside in the country. Madam President, I would like Several of the speakers have raised the issue of legal certainty in dealing with persecution on the basis of religious beliefs, gender or sexual orientation. It is very important that this issue should be raised. Anyone seeking asylum in Sweden has their protection needs tested in accordance with the Aliens Act. "Refugee" means a foreigner who is outside the country of which the foreigner is a national because he or she has a well-founded fear of persecution on the grounds of race, nationality or religious or political opinion or because of sex, sexual orientation or other affiliation of a particular social group and cannot, or because of his or her fear, avail himself or herself of the protection of his or her own country. A refugee is entitled to a residence permit. The Finnish Immigration Service and the Migration Courts shall determine whether there is a need for protection or any other basis for a residence permit on the basis of the reasons given and the supporting documents presented. It is always an individual assessment made in the individual case. As a practice-forming body, the Migration Court of Appeal provides guidance for its application. It is extremely important to have a legal certainty process in these cases, which I have also lifted up. Madam President, I would like In a number of exercises, the issue of own living is raised. What is said in several of the motions is that the possibility for asylum seekers to arrange their own accommodation has a number of disadvantages, such as deteriorating opportunities for the individual to participate in early interventions, overcrowding and increased segregation. These effects have been most evident in some municipalities with socio-economic challenges. In its report, the investigation has proposed a clear limitation of the possibility of owning a home, including the need for a housing test to ensure that it is socially sustainable. In addition, the government has developed the supplementary memorandum A socially sustainable home for asylum seekers. The memo proposes that an asylum seeker who organises his/her own accommodation in an area with socio-economic challenges should not be entitled to daily allowance. The memo also stresses the urgent need for a proposal to limit the negative social consequences of asylum seekers choosing to organise their own housing in certain residential areas with socio-economic challenges. The January Agreement states that the proposals presented in the memo should be implemented. A bill is announced by May this year. Madam President, I would like In order to maintain a long-term sustainable migration policy, it is important that the asylum process is legally secure and effective and that the return process works. It is a prerequisite for a credible asylum process and also important for countering an emerging shadow society, as many previous speakers have highlighted. In order to achieve this, it is crucial that the person who has received a decision rejecting asylum on the basis of legal certainty leaves the country as soon as possible. A return shall take place primarily on its own. However, it must also be possible, as a last resort, to implement a removal decision under coercion. Something that is also raised in the discussion about the announcement that has been made is if you have committed a crime in Sweden. The joint announcement by the committee proposes that in more cases than those currently in force, an expulsion decision should be issued. So that is something on which the committee has been unanimous. Madam President, I would like The last point I want to make has also been raised by many others here. This is something that is also included in the January agreement: the introduction of visas for highly qualified people who want to look for a job or start a business. It has been announced that an investigation will be set up this year and that new rules will be in place on 1 January 2021. Since 1 December 2017, a permit does not need to be revoked if the employer has remedied the deficiency in question without the Finnish Immigration Service having taken any action. However, as we have heard several speakers before me say, there is much left that we need to review in order to be able to have the skills and competitiveness that work and the labour market in Sweden need. If we have agreements with other parties, we Social Democrats naturally intend to comply with those agreements. Something else would be completely foreign to us. Some have raised the question of whether we will comply with agreements. That is a matter of course for us.
i-670e5f84510687e8-229	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Carina Ohlsson and the Social Democrats you hear a lot of talk about that they take responsibility. But in reality, they never get to grips with it. They have entered the government of the Green Party, which has left ultimatum after ultimatum. Before the elections, the Social Democrats sounded like the Moderates: It should be orderly. If you've got a yes, you've got a yes. If you've got a no, you've got to go back. But as soon as the Social Democrats get to the negotiating table, they do what they do best: They grind down their opponents and push everything into investigations, because they think that the party and power are more important than taking responsibility for Sweden. For a social democrat, the party always takes precedence over the country. What we see is that when it comes to more detention places, there is not always money. When it comes to money for the police, you talk about it, but once you come to add a bill, you move money from the police to the Correctional Service. How can a legally secure and effective return be promoted if the police are given less resources? This is about trust, even in those who get a yes. Those who find themselves illegally in Sweden also thumbs up on trust in those who have received a yes. We have no order in migration policy. My question to Carina Ohlsson is therefore: When will the Social Democrats shake off the Green Party and sit down in an investigation where for once we get order in migration policy so that we can at some point discuss something else that has nothing to do with migration and integration?
i-670e5f84510687e8-234	Madam President, I would like Here it was a little good and mixed- but maybe not so good. I would like to ask Mr Arin what he means when he says that we have not done anything in the four years, I suppose – when we ruled. What we took over was the migration policy that Sweden had when we had a moderate prime minister for eight years. After that, we have changed the legislation in a number of areas of migration policy, including the temporary law, which we now also intend to extend. We are told that we should shake off a party and at the same time set up a parliamentary committee. The difference when it comes to a parliamentary committee is that the parties are involved. If one is to shape a migration policy that everyone should be able to have an entry into and discuss – because I understand that one wants to have as many issues as possible – this is to be done within a parliamentary committee, and then the parties are there. When it comes to detention places, more have been created, and the extension will continue. There will also be more police officers. I was with the police this weekend, and in my own part of Sweden there is now no room for more police officers in the two police houses that remain after the Moderates have ruled for several years. So now the police are allowed to go back to the premises they used to have. So I do not agree at all that nothing is happening. Things happen all the time. I disagree with Arin Karapet about what we heard in the line shift.
i-670e5f84510687e8-238	Madam President, I would like I'm very hard in my tone, but I know the difference between the thing and the person. Carina Ohlsson is actually one of the nicer in committee. But I'm here in the role of opposition, so I hope she can take it that my feelings creep outside my body. I can explain what it was like, Madam President. The Moderates lost power in autumn 2014. The crisis began in the summer of 2015. The Social Democrats were in government. So it took until the end of November before it dared to decide on border control – almost six months. I do not call this a responsibility. When I spoke, Madam President, of shaking off the Green Party, I meant the Green Party as a government party, not in Parliament. They're in the elected assembly. They can be part of a parliamentary inquiry in the Riksdag. But all ministers in government will sign all decisions; the decisions will be taken jointly. We can take, Madam President, as an example, that the Social Democrats are saying that Europe should take responsibility. Yes, Europe should take responsibility. But what kind of signal do we send to Europe when we point our finger at all the European Member States and say: you should be involved in taking responsibility. At the same time, they sit here at home in Sweden and say: We will agree on a new humanitarian protection basis so that refugee policy becomes even more generous. Who's gonna take us seriously? Is it again about the search for likes on Facebook and Instagram or about some article in DN or Expressen, where you pat on your shoulder and think: Gud, what we are good – now we take responsibility. It is important to come out in real life and make the right decisions so that there is order. When are you going to take real responsibility for migration policy?
i-670e5f84510687e8-243	Madam President, I would like It's hard to know where to start. I am certainly not afraid to debate, but it is about the level at which we are debating. What we are proposing here is not based on how many likes we get on Twitter or Facebook, but this is about trust. What is important when our ministers come to a Council of Ministers or to the European Council to debate a policy is that it also has to deal with their situation at home. This is not called pointing the finger, but it is called holding a debate and a discussion in a serious way. I think we should do that here too. When it is said that we Social Democrats have done nothing in this area and that everything is too late, I think the opposite is proved by the figures we can still see. I can inform you that in 2014 80 000 asylum seekers came to Sweden, and now there are about 20 000. So it is clear that perhaps even an election year like 2014 could have started to announce a change of legislation. I welcome the fact that a parliamentary committee is coming to discuss these issues seriously. It is not said what different types of protection grounds can be considered, but it should also be discussed so that, for example, legal paths can be found and children, young people, women and men do not have to go out into unknown waters where many people have to put their lives to. In a parliamentary committee, the issues can be raised in a serious way, and I think we should do so in this House as well.
i-670e5f84510687e8-247	Madam President, I would like There are many questions I could ask Carina Ohlsson; it is the lot that falls on the representative of a government party and the party of the responsible minister of state. I will start by focusing on the rather large part of Carina Ohlsson's speech that was about the European Union and the European level. We have heard this from most other parties, but perhaps above all from the Social Democrats, for a couple of years now: we have done what we needed to do, and now we are waiting – now it is on the table of the European Union and will be dealt with there. Thereby you should wait with a few more things. The focus is on what is going on in the EU and that this is in place. I was told now that there seems to be a rather long way to reach an agreement, but there still seems to be hope and confidence that this will be resolved at European level and put a great deal there. My first sub-question is therefore: Does Carina Ohlsson think that it will be possible to achieve any success with migration policy at EU level in the near future? And if you do not believe that, what parts do you see on the part of the Social Democrats as most urgent, beyond what is forced to go forward early on as a result of the January agreement? I know, for example, that safe countries have been lifted. The last answer, in March, to a question put to the Minister for Migration was that it still intends to come back, despite the fact that it has now been quite a long time since it became clear that this is needed and that it is no longer possible to blame the European Union. A second, a little short question closely linked to this is that a lot of focus is placed on the existence of roads to Europe. Do Carina Ohlsson and the Social Democrats believe that the world's refugee situation and the crises faced by tens of millions of people are solved by giving way to Europe? Or do we perhaps need to raise our eyes and think more globally and internationally and make real efforts for the world's refugees?
i-670e5f84510687e8-253	Madam President, I would like It is not the case that we Social Democrats sit with our arms crossed and believe that Europe will solve this situation. As both I and Paula Bieler know, what we have seen so far has not been so successful. This may also depend on who is in charge in the EU countries, so if we look at which countries are the most difficult to deal with when it comes to migration policy, perhaps we can join forces to try to get a better agreement. That is also why I described, for example, the temporary law, which clearly reduced the number of asylum seekers in Sweden to a very large extent. This is one thing we have done. But migration is also very strongly linked to establishment and integration in order for us to be able to cope with the current situation. That is why I also lifted the EBO Act, for example, which needs to be reviewed in order for us to be able to ensure that Sweden also takes a larger and joint responsibility between municipalities. It is both about what we do at home in Sweden and about what we do in relation to other countries. I am not naive and believe that there is only Europe in the world. It is clear that we can see many flows of refugees also to other countries and continents. That is why it is so important that we too have aid and support organisations such as the UNHCR in a good way. We have nothing to be ashamed of from the Swedish side, because we are extremely involved in the global agreements that exist in this area.
i-670e5f84510687e8-257	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ohlsson, for your answer. To agree in this House between our parties on what to pursue in the EU is, we both know, nothing that will go, because we have fundamentally different views on what is responsible migration policy at both national and European level. The distinction between our parties is about whether or not to forcely distribute and focus on receiving here, driven by people choosing illegal ways because it is the only roads that exist and that there are no clear rules that have consequences if they break them. It's not something we want to see. We do not want to see legislation as the instruction law, which has not taken into account whether housing exists or not, and whether there are actually opportunities to bring people into society in practice. At the same time, however, it seems promising that a number of parties are now talking about the link between migration and integration. In the past, I was consistently laughed at as a spokesperson for integration policy when I tried to operate this interconnection in the Committee on Employment, which is dealing with integration. Johanna Jönsson was into it earlier, and I have said it many times myself: It matters how and where we do the first asylum trials. The fact that as much as possible of the asylum trials should take place as close to the crisis as possible is not about it being far away, as some people want it to be for us. In fact, that is not at all the basis. But it's about people not having to flee longer than necessary and that they should be tested where they come from, when you see how acute it is and know who they are, so that they haven't been able to connect for other reasons. One specific question is therefore: does the Social Democrats see, in addition to aid, that it might be relevant to review migration legislation in order to ensure that asylum is sought as early as possible on more occasions than the current system leads to?
i-670e5f84510687e8-261	Mr. Old President! I and Paula Bieler seem to have very different views on how we conduct European policy in this area. We Social Democrats usually say that we have both rights and obligations. In this area, it can definitely be said that we cannot just enjoy rights and get substantial financial support from what we jointly pay in and then fail to comply with the agreements that exist in the area of migration, for example. It must be assumed that agreements are complied with. It may be both in the area of migration and in other areas, such as the environment, but that is not what we are discussing now. I definitely think that we need to raise these kinds of questions and questions if we are to take joint and several responsibility for the people who are on the run and come to Europe. It is both upright and what we need to do. I think that this issue of the right to asylum and how it should be upheld is extremely important. It is also, of course, based on what Paula Bieler talks about where to apply for asylum. We need agreements on what applies when you come to a continent. I'm afraid we haven't. But we Social Democrats believe that we should maintain that it should be possible to come to Sweden and seek asylum. At the same time, however, we have significantly increased the number of quota refugees. It is also to ensure more for women and children. Those who are quota refugees are mainly women and children. We are open to looking at many different points of view. That is also why we should have the parliamentary committee to see if there are other possibilities to agree jointly.
i-670e5f84510687e8-266	Mr. Old President! Migration policy is an area that really affects in different ways. We can see that in the motion reports. We see it in several paragraphs of the 73-point programme, the January agreement between S, MP, C and L. We can also all see, hear and participate in discussions around the country. We see it in our email baskets, and we hear it when we are at work and in schools. Not least, we hear it from directly affected people – either people who have come to Sweden themselves or people in Sweden who have come to know people who have come here. In the programme known as the January agreement, several parts concern migration policy. The temporary migration legislation introduced in summer 2016 and running until this summer will be extended for another two years, until summer 2021. At the same time, family reunification is allowed for alternative protection needs. Enabling family reunification is important – from a human perspective, of course. For those of us who have not been forced to flee to a new country, it is difficult to imagine what it is like to have their family, partner or children left in the former conflict-affected country. This can hardly be imagined for those who have not been in that situation. Suffering isn't just personal either. It also impairs the possibility of integration, learning the language, training or re-training, getting a job and entering society. All these opportunities are radically reduced when you are not close to your loved ones. A parliamentary committee will shortly be set up to work out the future migration policy that will apply after the temporary law expires in summer 2021. An important part of the investigation to be set up is that the four parties should work for a new humanitarian protection base. In the past, we have had the system of special reasons – not very serious reasons – and we have now seen that people who are severely ill are deported to countries where they may not know anyone or have any opportunity to receive treatment. Mr. Old President! The Green Party has worked hard to ensure that unaccompanied persons who have come to Sweden have the opportunity to have their case examined in accordance with the conditions that applied when they came to Sweden and applied for asylum. That was the background to the High School Act. It has given many young people who have been rooted in Sweden the opportunity to stay and get a new trial under the conditions that applied when they arrived. The Finnish Immigration Service is an authority that is also subject to trials from time to time. Like many other authorities, they had a strained situation in the autumn of 2015, when many asylum seekers arrived in Sweden in a short time. When politics changed, both in Sweden and elsewhere, and fewer people applied for asylum, the Migration Agency still had many matters to deal with for a period of time, and the queues grew. But gradually they have been handled and tried to shorten the queues while maintaining quality. As you know, in the 2019 budget voted through in the Riksdag in December, M's and KD's proposals won. It was approved by the Riksdag because it was also supported by the Swedish Democrats. That budget contains substantial cuts at the Migration Agency, and criticisms that come about legal uncertainty and long processing times become hollow in the light of the rapid withdrawal of a great deal of money. This has also been repeated in other areas. Mr. Old President! A few weeks ago, the Finnish Immigration Service received a new regulation letter and will return with an account of how to handle convertible matters. The Director-General has been in committee and answered questions about this. We have seen that matters relating to convertibles have been handled differently in different parts of Sweden. We have also seen cases of legitimate criticism. There are several different actors who have worked on this issue, broadly in committee and also in civil society, and it is positive that there has been consensus. Age assessments are another issue on which discussions have been held, and criticism has been levelled at the practices that have taken place. During the year, an investigation will be set up to review how this can be improved. The rules for labour migration are important for Sweden's business and economy. Labour migration develops and strengthens Sweden. The Green Party has always defended liberal labour migration, which was shown not least when we worked together on these issues with the then alliance government in 2010–2014. In the January agreement there is an agreement to stop the so-called competence expulsions, which several speakers have already mentioned. This is something that has rightly upset people and is urgent to change. Mr. Old President! The issue of migration is also an urgent issue for the European Union. Migration is discussed in all European countries, and the Swedish position that all countries must take responsibility and respect the right to asylum is important. The quota refugee system must also work. We must not let the best be the enemy of the possible and give up efforts, but we must continue to work in the right direction. It was not easy to get all of Sweden's municipalities to take full responsibility, and one can ask if we have succeeded in all parts. But we have come a long way, and so can we in Europe. Finally, migration is nothing new. Man has moved as long as he has existed, to new places and new continents. It has continued, and trade and meetings have developed us over time. Sometimes migration is voluntary, which is a positive thing. Sometimes it happens by force when people run away from something, and of course that is something we must fight in every way and prevent conflict and persecution. Very little indicates that migration will decrease. The world is smaller than ever. More travel out of curiosity, and more find love in new places. Unfortunately, serious conflicts also make people go away. The right of asylum must then be available to protect those who flee in order to maintain human dignity. I support the committee's proposals in the four reports.
i-9bUvU4JYgirHhfR5PzGCtM	Mr. Old President! I support reservations 2 and 45 in the report Migration and asylum policy, SfU16, and reservation 1 in the report Family immigration, SfU 17. Mr. Old President! It is difficult in ten minutes to sum up everything that is wrong in Swedish migration policy. That is why I shall instead start with what we actually agree on, all of us sitting in this House today. It is about the most basic thing that may seem to be self-evident but which, almost daily, seems to give rise to all kinds of misunderstandings among citizens: Sweden should have regulated immigration. It must be regulated as in that there should be rules for which foreigners who have the right to reside in Sweden. It must be regulated as in that we – the parliament, the state, the citizens – have the right to determine the conditions under which a foreigner may be within the borders of the country. It should be regulated as in that we have an obligation to sometimes say no to foreigners who have asked if they can stay here. Mr. Old President! It is essential for a functioning migration policy that legalised trials take place and that the outcomes are either yes or no, where a yes is a yes and a no is a no. It is fundamental for Swedish citizens' confidence in the parliament and government that they can trust that the people they meet outside also have the right to stay in the country and that the state knows who is moving in Swedish streets and squares. It is fundamental that the state assumes its responsibility for people who do not have the right to reside or live in Sweden actually also being rejected. It is fundamental that we do not stand passively and watch a shadow society with illegal migrants emerge – a shadow society in which undeclared work without agreements and rights is strangely the best way to make a living and robbery, drugs, prostitution, burglary and other organised crime are more likely sources of income. It is a shadow society without control, where crime and radicalisation have their perfect soil to grow in and abominable people like the terrorist Rakhmat Akilov becomes the sad proof of how dysfunctional the Swedish migration system is. Mr. Old President! What, then, is this shadow society, and how many live there? It must be carefully mapped, because when you have a big problem you usually start by defining the scope. No, today there are neither reliable statistics nor other facts regarding the extent of shadow society in Sweden. However, the reports and statements from various authorities that can be compiled suggest that the shadow society consists of several tens of thousands of people. The Swedish Democrats want to see a public survey where the shadow society can be studied through collaboration between several authorities. We must do everything we can to counter the increased exclusion and crime of recent years. For some reason both the Social Democrats and the other left-wing liberals oppose such a survey. Mr. Old President! I do not think, of course, that their opposition is based on the fact that they want citizens or foreigners badly, even if it is the practical consequence: that people suffer when a shadow society develops. We Swedish democrats want pragmatic and perfectly logical measures to avoid this. We want to encourage more people to return on their own, on the one hand, by restricting access to the welfare system and, on the other hand, by increasing the opportunities for those who already wish to return but for practical reasons. We want to commission the Migration Agency to keep asylum seekers under surveillance, and we want to criminalise the concealment of illegals, even if they do not have their own financial gain. We want to take a strong stand against illegal labour. We want to give the police the resources to increase internal border controls and increased powers to seek out and expel illegals. We want to abolish the limitation period for expulsions. To hide and live illegally in Sweden should not be rewarded with new chances. We want to make sure that the sentenced are not trying to enter the country under new identity. Photographs, fingerprints and DNA samples shall be capable of being taken and stored for longer periods of time. Sweden must do everything possible to avoid a new Akilov. Mr. Old President! I promised to talk about things that we could agree on. It is always difficult to patch and fix something too many times or re-stitch an old suit based on constant weight gain. Sometimes you have to invest in buying something that is better suited to new conditions and that can last for a number of years. This is also true of Swedish refugee policy. It is a policy that is fundamentally suited to a different era, a different mobility and other conditions than today's. What we have to do, Mr. Old President, is a complete overhaul. There is, as many have already mentioned, the seed of something good in the January agreement, if it is the case that the government and the support parties really are serious. Point 67:a settlement of the future migration policy in a parliamentary committee. That's great. As things stand at present, the temporary law will be extended, which gives us a short respite. Now we need to agree on what a reasonable, pragmatic migration policy should be – one based on our acting rather than merely reacting. We do not have time to wait for the hopeless project of a common European policy. This has been being worked on for a lot of years now, and for each ministerial meeting the solution seems to be further and further away. Instead, let us settle at home in Sweden for a future humane refugee policy that prioritises the weakest and most vulnerable groups in the immediate areas where the urgent protection needs are greatest, ahead of those with physical strength, economics and contacts to get through safe countries all the way up to Sweden. Let us settle for a future humane refugee policy where we prioritise support in the form of effective and accessible protection, basic necessities of life, medicines to save as many lives as possible and education for a better future when the crisis is over. Speaking of tax revenue and humanism, Mr. President of the Age, the Swedish Democrats are a family-friendly party. We understand the importance of clear rules for family immigration. Anyone who wants to be able to work to bring their closest family members here. But here too, there must be order. A basic rule for bringing a loved one here – or three, or ten – must be that you are initially responsible for them, that you have a reasonable size of accommodation, that you can support your loved ones, and that you can solve insurance for health care and dental care. It is a financial burden that should not be placed on Swedish taxpayers. Speaking of humane reasons, I would like to raise the current debate on honour problems and highlight the Swedish Democrats' proposal for a 24-year rule for those who will use marriage as a connection. A similar rule already exists in Denmark and means that both parties who enter marriage outside the EEA must be over 24 years old if it is to lead to residence permits on the basis of affiliation. In this way, we want to reduce the risk of forced marriages abroad and also reduce the risk of a situation in which young people are used as commodities. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: let voters and citizens know that we politicians are ensuring that every invested tax crown can do as much good as possible for as many people as possible!
i-670e5f84510687e8-307	Mr. Old President! I have a complement to my first speech, as I forgot to mention the reservations that the Moderates wish to endorse. In the report SfU16 Migration and asylum policy, the Moderates are in favour of reservation No 1. In the SfU report17, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 6. In the SfU18 report, we call for the approval of reservation No 1. In the SfU19 report, we call for the approval of reservation No 9.
i-670e5f84510687e8-309	Mr. Old President! Larry Söder has asked me whether I intend to present proposals to Parliament which involve the implementation of a Bospar reform. Larry Söder has also asked me whether I intend to present proposals to the Parliament to implement start-up loans for young people so that they have the opportunity to buy their first property. In Sweden we have a general housing market for everyone. At the same time, there are many households who find it difficult to ask for housing on market terms. In many parts of the country, pressure is high in the rental market, and young adults do not always have enough waiting time to rent a dwelling. As Minister of Finance and Housing, of course, I see issues relating to young people's entry into the housing market as central. Young adults should be able to leave home when they want to start their adult life. Larry Söder raises the issue of young people's ability to buy a first owned dwelling. Starting to save for a living early can mean increased financial security for the individual. The macroprudential measures introduced aim to reduce the risks associated with high and rising household indebtedness. Generally speaking, there is a need to be cautious about measures that over-indebtedness by economically weak groups. The January agreement has a clear focus on housing issues, and in this context I would like to highlight in particular the tax reform to be undertaken. The reform shall, inter alia, aim to improve the functioning of the housing market. Such a review may provide an opportunity to create long-term sustainability and stability in the housing market. It is important, together with the municipalities, to try to help create a better housing supply and ensure that there are housing with a variety of tenure forms that are suitable for everyone. More housing is needed throughout Sweden, not least to make it easier for young adults to get their first home. The investment aid for rental apartments introduced during the last term of office and granted for more than 20 000 apartments is an important tool for creating the conditions for the construction of apartments with limited rents and reasonable requirements for tenants' ability to pay. In accordance with the January agreement, the Government intends to return with proposals on how the investment support can continue to be designed. A good supply of rental apartments for reasonable rents creates the conditions for more households to find suitable housing on the market.
i-670e5f84510687e8-314	Mr. Old President! In 2017, about 260 000 or 24 per cent of Sweden's young people aged 20 to 27 still lived at home. Nearly 82 percent of them did so against their own will. According to Tenants' Association 2017, this was the highest percentage of young people living at home with their parents since they started measuring 1997. This is a signal that shows that we have a major problem in the housing market, a problem which in itself affects not only young people but everyone who wants to switch to a home that is more suited to their situation. In the country's 20 largest municipalities, a woman aged 40 to 45 with a median income cannot buy a three for herself and her children in any of the municipalities. In these municipalities there are also long queues for rentals. In many cases, you are stuck in the dwelling you have, regardless of the situation. This crisis strikes the poor capital directly, such as young people who have completed studies and are going to move to take a job. They have no possibility of buying a dwelling or renting one. The background to my question to the Minister is that today we have a housing market that is not working. Too many people stand without a home or are unable to move away from home or to the accommodation they actually need. We agree that too little is being built in Sweden. The forecast is that we are building about 40,000 apartments when we would have to build 70 000 apartments. The housing shortage leads to rising property prices, which increases the risks associated with high household indebtedness. The Swedish housing market continues to face huge challenges. In order to counter the housing shortage, it is therefore necessary to provide the conditions for new production of housing that corresponds to existing demand. The Christian Democrats want it to be possible to take the step to the owned housing market. With inspiration from our own homes, we want people with regular income to be able to build their own homes. We believe that owned housing increases the stability of society, both from a family perspective and from a societal perspective. With the right mix of own properties and rentals, it becomes socially mixed areas and thus a calmer climate with more presence of everything that may be needed. Studies also show that those who own their home live longer and of course also care about their own home, which is an investment for the future. To make this possible, the government should find ways to support the municipalities to plan for more villas. More residential areas mixed with tenant-ownership and rental apartments, with all we know about own ownership of housing, should be the obvious mix of residential building. New housing can be created by the government commissioning the county boards to identify new areas, where completely new districts can be built. These areas can then be built mainly with housing owned by the residents themselves, in the form of detached houses or terraced houses. Furthermore, potential home builders and home buyers should be given an opportunity to obtain a government-funded start-up loan corresponding to their top loan. This would actually mean that families who do not have an opportunity to save up for their own effort can take the first step into their own accommodation. New housing can be provided by municipalities making more land leases and a new system where you have shorter contracts and a possibility of renting the land over time. My question is whether the Minister is willing to look at various forms of rent purchase to make it easier for people to own their housing and to look at housing savings for young people, which would make it easier for young people to buy their first home. That's my whole point. I think it's good for society to own one's own home.
i-670e5f84510687e8-325	Mr. Old President! I thank my alliance friend for a very good interpellation. Recently the Minister of Housing participated in Agenda, I think it was. Then came the classic statement. It will surely be as classic as Tage Erlander's answer in the late 60's to the question of how a young couple would get their first home: Line up. In this debate on television a week or so ago, the Minister of Housing told us that he had no wands. I think few people believe that the Minister of Housing should be Harry Potter. I think there are far more people who believe that the government and the Minister for Housing should conduct a policy so that more people can get housing. Mr. Old President! We Moderates protect all forms of living. We think, like the Christian Democrats, that it is important that you own your home if you want to. But what is more relevant than what the Moderates or Christian Democrats think is of course what the young themselves think. According to the Youth Barometer, four out of ten young people want to live in a villa. So on the question of where they would like to live, 40 percent say they would like to live in a villa — detached houses. 31 percent say they want to live in a owned apartment. It's 17% who wants to live in a rental apartment. Why do they want to live in a villa? That's interesting, too. There are open answers in this survey about why young people want to live in a villa. An 18 - year - old girl says: When I decide to start a family, I want a steady income and move to a villa. I want my children to grow up in a beautiful and safe area. Then I also want to decorate a villa. One 18 - year - old guy says: "You get away from every neighbor's life in the way that sound doesn't disturb the way it can do in an apartment or terraced house." A guy in 24 years says: Good investment, a sense of freedom and the possibility to grill hamburgers. He may be able to do so on the building-free terrace; what do I know? Mr. Old President! That's why I'm concerned when Larry Söder asks for measures to allow more people to own their accommodations. It is therefore a relevant question. That is what the young people of Sweden want. The majority of the Swedish people want to own their accommodation, and they want to live in a villa. I note that the Government's response refers to investment aid for rental apartments. So that is not what my colleague asked about. The question was, then, what policy the government is taking for more people to own their housing. Mr. Old President! When the entire civil committee visited Skanska last week, the vice president of this group used very drastic words about the consequences of the policy being conducted. In the area we visited in Nacka, where houses were built, less than half were sold. Normally, all flats are sold. There was talk of a stoppage in sales because of government policy. It was said that those with normal income — even those with fairly high normal income — could not obtain loans at the bank. I understand better, of course, the answer given by the Minister for Housing, namely that perhaps there is a focus on rental apartments. But this is worrying when the majority of the Swedish people want to own their home. Houses are being built that people would like to buy. But it is clearly not possible because of government policy.
i-670e5f84510687e8-338	Mr. Old President! I thank Larry Söder for an important interpellation, and I hope that we can have a constructive debate on these issues. I notice that we share the vision and the goal, that is, that people should be able to decide for themselves wherever they want to live. This is, of course, the vision that the government is also working for. On the other hand, we have a common challenge if we have a common goal. It is that there has been underinvestment in the housing sector for many years, not to say decades. It has created the situation that we have. There we can agree that the market is flawed. But I also think we can agree that it is difficult to say that this will be resolved in a quick turn. Although when you're in opposition you often have a easier journey than when you're in government, I don't think you should come up with the upper words that you can solve the housing problems on a coffee break or even in a season. This is a problem that has been built up for a long time. Unfortunately, it will also take time to find solutions to that. Then it is also gratifying that construction is at record levels and that there are now 50 000 new homes, which is more than in quite a few years and even decades. However, this does not make me happy. I want to see continued activity. We need to do more both in the housing market and in housing policy. We now have an agreement – the January agreement – where there are concrete steps forward in the housing market. It is both a matter of renewing the rental system, so that hopefully more rental apartments can be built, and that more people can have access to this accommodation. As we have heard, it is not something that everyone wants, but it is still a housing niche that many find attractive. For example, if you come and study for a certain period, or if you come as a foreign worker to work for a period in a company, it may be a type of housing that is perfect for this situation. We must then create greater flexibility in this market as well. But we have also written that we will make concrete changes in the regulations to facilitate housing construction and be able to cut both building times and building costs. There are also other points relating to facilitating the housing market. Not least, I would like to point out the major tax review that the four parties behind the January agreement have agreed to do, where the very functioning of the housing market is in focus and will be guiding when we draw up the new tax proposals. Larry Söder also makes some suggestions, for example that we should support the municipalities and build new urban areas. The government is already on that ball and has started that work, so I think we can agree that that is the way forward. After all, we have a coordinator who is now inventing state land to see where to build new residential areas and use state land for that. I also think it is a good thing that we are highlighting various proposals on how we can facilitate people's entry into the housing market. It is a challenge for many young people to enter the housing market, and I am humbled by the fact that this is a difficult situation. I am prepared to look broadly at this issue in order to find ways forward. In the Green Party, which I represent, we have highlighted the possibility of having subsidised housing savings in order to allow young people to build up a capital investment which they can then use to enter the housing market. It may be a suggestion to discuss in connection with a larger tax review. I therefore believe that this is a time when we should not lock doors and put an end to various proposals, but rather be open and constructive and try to look at this together. I would also like to see that we had the ability to reach a broader housing agreement, and I hope that there is also an interest on the part of the opposition in holding talks on how to make the housing market more functional. It is about ensuring that different groups have an opportunity to get the very accommodation they dream about. That is the vision the government is working on.
i-670e5f84510687e8-348	Mr. Old President! I agree with the Minister that those who live in housing should be allowed to decide for themselves how to live. That must, of course, be the basic condition and the objective we have, in some way, and that is why I am trying to point out that many people want to own their homes. Many people have it as their goal, and that is why we cannot focus our policy on rentals alone. Instead, it should be wide across the spectrum – that we actually want different types of housing. The Minister of Housing says that housing construction is at record levels. I am not sure if I agree with that, because unfortunately it is a downward trend. We need things to reverse that trend one more time. I agree that we cannot do this at once, but must do it together. I fully agree with that, but I think we need to do a little more than just stare blindly at the fact that we have investment support and that it will solve this. We must have a broader perspective and paint with a wider brush stroke. When it comes to the fact that there are no rental apartments in the larger cities – and that in some cases people can of course imagine having a rental apartment – I think that the reason why there are no vacant rental apartments may actually be that those who want to live in another form of housing do not come to. Those who want to live in a tenant-ownership or a villa do not come there, but they are stuck in the rental apartments that someone else actually wants to live in. The solution is not that we only build more rental apartments, but we have to build different forms of housing in order to solve the puzzle. People should live in the right dwelling with the right square metre area. We will never be able to build ourselves out of this, but it is about giving people incentives so that they can own their own home. The Minister says in his reply that we in Sweden have a general housing market for everyone. This is true in a way, but the question is whether those who are outside the housing market – that is, those who do not actually have a dwelling – agree with it. The question is whether the 260 000 people between the ages of 20 and 27 who do not have their own home but are actually forced to stay at home think we have a general housing market. I don't think they think so, and so to speak, what is my problem. I think we should see the problem a little bigger than that. The Minister also says in his reply that it can mean greater financial security for the individual to start saving for an early home. Yeah, I don't have a different opinion. That's why we're doing this with bospar; we think it's a good form. This means that the kid can start saving for his own home and avoid the top loan – the short-term loan – which is actually the most expensive loan. If the Minister is now serious about the fact that the Green Party actually has the same view, perhaps we can help push the Social Democrats, the Centre Party and the Liberals ahead of us so that we can get this through in one way or another. Then I also think that young people may not always be able to bear the full risk themselves when it comes to short-term loans. Maybe the government should take a little risk. We could have a government loan for young people so that they can enter the housing market and avoid taking blank loans. The state would then take the risk, and I do not think that the risk is very great because the amortisation of the loans today is so effective and the housing shortage has increased so much. I would therefore argue that the risk to the state would not be directly high. I think we could agree on a government loan. We can always come back to whether the investment aid for rental apartments is right or wrong, but I think we need to see that the housing market is more than just rental apartments. If we can do that, I think it would be very good. The Minister keeps coming back to the January Agreement. Unfortunately, we are more parties in Parliament than just those who have entered into the January Agreement. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister one more time: does the Minister intend to conclude a broad housing agreement with all parties? We in the Christian Democrats have said that we are in favour of it, but I have not heard that the Minister has that view.
i-670e5f84510687e8-356	Mr. Old President! So no one asks the Minister for Housing to be Harry Potter with a wand, but to conduct a policy that allows more people to get a place to live. Tomorrow there will be a major debate on housing policy in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. It will of course be interesting to see the Minister for Housing's active presence in the debate, where we can hear about all the concrete proposals that the government has in the drawer. What is missing, however, is the perspective that most young people want to live in detached houses. Most young people answer that they want to live in a tenant-ownership apartment when asked. What the Moderates or the Green Party really think is quite irrelevant, but the interesting thing is what young people themselves want. It is therefore, of course, important to have a policy that makes this possible and to pursue an active policy. It feels like this government is giving priority to rentals. It feels like that's where you focus. Of course it also means political signals, because that signal system works. If we look at dwellings – after all, there have been residential apartments built, not least in the big cities – we see that there has been a sharp shift in sales. Skanska's vice president was very clear with the entire civil committee when he spoke clearly about the consequences of the government's policy. He said, for example, about Boverket's forecast of construction: I don't believe anything about it, because the case in sales and construction will be much, much bigger than what Boverket signals. I hope that those on the market are wrong – that would be good – but of course it is probably those closest to the construction market who can judge this best. However, it would be interesting to hear whether the Minister for Housing considers it important that many have the opportunity to own their home in Sweden.
i-670e5f84510687e8-360	Mr. Old President! I think it is important to focus on the major challenges we face. That's why I don't think you should talk down different forms of housing either. I think that all forms of housing have their role to fill in the Swedish housing market, and since we as individuals are different, it is important that there are different forms of housing in order for us to meet our goals and dreams. For example, you don't have to express yourself as someone is in a rental apartment; there are actually many people who want to rent their accommodation. They think it suits their life conditions. For example, many find it convenient not to have to do maintenance and the like themselves but rather to have a professional host who can carry out such tasks for them. However, I have great respect for the fact that many people also want to own their housing. I think it is excellent, and I think that you should have the opportunity – in a broad sense – to choose the form of accommodation that suits you best. On the other hand, it will never be the case, either in the housing market or in the labour market, that one can only point out and choose the exact future one wants. Of course, an active effort is required from the resident himself. Then it is true for us – and there I am completely on the same line as Larry Söder – to create the conditions for a functioning housing market. In this respect, I welcome the fact that concrete proposals are now being made on what to do. The question I ask myself is why these proposals were not implemented during the eight years of government. During the long period, there were all the conditions for this, and then the Christian Democrats also had the Ministry of Housing. However, those proposals did not come at that time. But let us now discuss whether we can produce them during this term of office instead. I hope there is a will to find ways forward together. I very much welcome the fact that the opportunity to participate in housing policy talks is being highlighted. That is something that we opened up to during the last parliamentary term. The four alliance parties at that time unfortunately chose to leave the talks despite the fact that, in my opinion, we had come quite a long way and also had the opportunity to move forward in those talks. It is also important to remember that there is a constant balance in housing policy. We should all be able to remember what happens when we are unable to maintain stability in economic and housing policy. I heard on the radio – I think it was yesterday – that the number of elderly people with debts is increasing in Sweden, especially the number who are over 80 years old. It was pointed out that some of them still live with the cults they had during the 1990s crisis, when the housing market did not work and the breakdown was very serious. These are people who were then in very high debt and who then, when the economy weak and they might have lost their jobs or ended up in a difficult personal position, had to sell their home at a lower price – much lower than they had bought it for. This led to a situation where they remained in debt but did not have the dwelling. There are people who, almost 30 years after this, still live in this situation and still live with these debts. We should be able to agree that we do not want to put any one person in that situation. No one should have to experience that burden throughout their adult life. Then it is important to ensure that there is financial security even when making your home purchases and that you do not go into debt at such a level that you cannot cope with financial disturbances and risks. Then we will end up in a situation where we risk a new generation getting stuck in the debt trap if there is an economic downturn. Then we risk a situation in which people do not have control of their economy and, at worst, end up in eternal debt. That is why we need to have some credit restrictions – we should be able to ensure that you have the opportunity to cope with your financial situation even when there are difficult times economically. But we must also ensure that there is access to credit. It is this balance that we must constantly try to achieve, and it is this balance that we from the government are working on every day.
i-670e5f84510687e8-370	Mr. Old President! We can argue about whose fault it is in different ways, but I argue that our Minister for Housing Stefan Attefall was a contributing factor to the upsurge in housing construction that took place during the last term of office. Now it is no longer a rise, but a fall, and I think that we must then take other measures to get our housing built up again. I don't want to take credit from Stefan Attefall, but I think he did it very well as Minister of Housing. However, we need to take more action right now. We have a debate on credit restrictions a little later. Perhaps I should not go so far into it, but I also see, of course, the problem of excessive debt. However, this is not my problem with credit restrictions, but my problem is that there will be stocks in stock that will make people unable to borrow from their home. We must see that a dwelling normally increases in value, which means that you can actually borrow from your home and do not need to amortise as much as at present. I would also like to go back to my first and the Minister's debate, where I said that the Minister wanted to be the spokesperson of the Green Party and that I was a little afraid that he might be more Minister of Finance than Minister of Housing. This is still my concern, although I think that the Minister is getting more and more involved in housing issues and feels domesticated there. As far as credit restrictions are concerned, I feel that it is the Minister for Finance who speaks a little more than the Minister for Housing. I think a housing minister would see more that we need more housing and that the state might have to take the risk more than the young people do. In that case, a government loan should also be acceptable to the Minister for Housing.
i-670e5f84510687e8-375	Mr. Old President! This is, of course, a government that, in broad cooperation – four parties together – has given clear answers. We have come up with a series of different measures aimed at the housing market that we will implement during this parliamentary term. We will reform the rental model and ensure that we have free renting in new construction to stimulate the growth of that part of the housing market. We have agreed to remove the removal tax by abolishing interest on the amount of the deferral. We agree that we will implement comprehensive regulatory simplifications, and we have a major investigation that will deliver proposals in the near future. We have, although this applies to the rental right and not to the right-of-occupancy property and the ownership part, redistributed the investment aid and stated that tens of thousands of new rental apartments with reasonable rents can now be built for those who do not have the thickest wallets. This is a government that has high ambitions for making the housing market work. We see that we are still at historically high levels of housing construction. We also see that both the number of building permits and the number of new buildings have turned up again in recent quarters. So it is too early to shout that everything is just going in the wrong direction or that we are just moving in one direction. I believe that there will be conditions for a balanced development of construction in the future. As I have said in these lines, I am interested in having broader talks, and I hope that we can exchange ideas and sit together and try to find a common way forward. I think it would be the very best thing for Sweden and for the housing market – we know that if something is capital intensive and requires a long-term perspective, it is the construction of new properties, whether for the rental market or for the purchase market. I hope that together we can try to help create as much clarity and long-term vision as possible.
i-670e5f84510687e8-382	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me whether I believe that credit restrictions, along with removal taxes, have a negative effect on demand in the housing market and whether I am going to ease credit restrictions so that demand in the housing market will take off again. I would like to start by recalling that household debt has risen in relation to households' total income over a longer period. These developments pose risks not only to highly leveraged households but also to the economy as a whole and, by extension, to the functioning of the housing market. The purpose of the mortgage cap and amortisation requirements is to strengthen household resilience and contribute to a healthier amortisation culture in order to reduce the risks associated with high and rising household indebtedness. It is important to follow up the macroprudential measures that have been implemented. The Government has therefore commissioned Finansinspektionen to develop and report methods for evaluating macroprudential measures. The assignment shall be presented by 14 June. However, it can already be noted that the measures have contributed to a healthier amortisation culture, as is evident from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority's report The Swedish mortgage market( 2019), which was published on 27 March this year. In order to improve the functioning of the housing market, we need a holistic approach and a long-term approach, which makes a broad political agreement desirable. In the January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, there are several reforms concerning the housing market. One such measure is to remove interest on the amount of the deferral. The fall in interest rates may contribute to a certain increase in mobility in the housing market. The January Agreement also provides for a comprehensive tax reform aimed, inter alia, at improving the functioning of the housing market. In this context, it is natural to also take into account the functioning of the credit market. The investment aid for rental apartments introduced during the last term of office and granted for more than 20 000 apartments is an important tool for creating the conditions for the construction of apartments with limited rents and reasonable requirements for tenants' ability to pay. In accordance with the January agreement, the Government intends to return with proposals on how the investment support can continue to be designed. A good supply of rental apartments for reasonable rents creates the conditions for more households to find suitable housing on the market. Finally, the government will continue to work on the January agreement's ambitions to reform the housing market so that more people's needs can be met, the rules simplified and competition increased.
i-670e5f84510687e8-388	Madam President, I would like In a comment from the Swedish National Insurance Association to the national figures published on 4 April, they say that the national figures show that both house and right-of-occupancy prices remained stable on a 12-month basis. The market therefore remains stable. However, 9 per cent fewer residential units were sold during the first quarter of the year compared to 2018 shows that credit restrictions and tougher lending conditions push demand and create lock-in effects. The January Agreement has agreed to remove interest on deferrals. I think that is a good idea in essence, but only if it is done together with a permanent removal of the ceiling on the amount of the deferral and other measures against the credit restrictions. Today, a household will be able to cope with the KALP calculation, which means that it will be able to pay an interest rate of 7 – 8 percent. One must also be able to amortise between 1 and 3 per cent of the loan per year and also be able to deposit at least 15 per cent of the down payment. For a household in Stockholm that will buy an apartment for SEK 3 million, this means that the bank must test the household for a housing expenditure of SEK 18 500 per month. However, the actual housing expenses for this family would be SEK 8,500, that is, SEK 10,000 less. That's what you have to do to borrow from an apartment. Consider that, in addition to this, you must have 1⁄2 million SEK in equity. The Minister and I have talked about this before, but I have never understood whether the Minister thinks this is a problem in itself or whether he thinks it is quite correct and should be in this way. The example that I am taking up, I think, shows how regulation on regulation has been imposed without any consideration being given to the whole. Since we already have an amortisation requirement in essence, the question of why it should be strengthened would have been more relevant than simply deciding on a reinforced amortisation requirement. In the debate, Swedish household debt is often painted as worryingly high. But we may be a little overly concerned, even if the burden of debt is great. The international comparisons made in the debate do not give a fair view of Swedes' debts. Households are resilient in an international comparison, and savings are high. I believe that the increase in the value of housing should also be taken into account over time to see whether an investment is a risk or a really good investment. Is a mortgage cap of 85 percent needed when a young person with today's amortisation requirement will own more than half the apartment after just 14 years? I would like to ask the Minister whether that is actually the case. Should young households, with often rapidly rising incomes, not be able to demand a owned dwelling, as mortgages of 3 per cent are required at the beginning of their housing career? Credit restrictions raise the thresholds for groups with less equity, including young and newcomers, who find it difficult to get their own housing. This creates side effects when households try to circumvent the regulations. The growth of consumption loans is increasing strongly, as is also reported by Finansinspektionen. All of this was part of the analysis of the consequences of economics professors, professionals and others, and now there are signs that this is happening. In addition to this, we have major matching problems in the labour market. Even where the functioning of the housing market spoils the conditions for many to move to the place where the work is located.
i-670e5f84510687e8-398	Madam President, I would like It is true that the house and right-of-occupancy prices are now quite still. A small rise can be noted. It is the assessment of many that there will also continue to be a small upturn in the coming years. There is now quite a difference compared to what it has been like for quite a long time, especially in metropolitan areas where the price increases have been very powerful. It has only been a doubling in the last ten years, and if you go even further back there has been a doubling of prices. If one is now concerned about the entry into the housing market and that it is difficult for young people to enter the housing market, one should also be somewhat concerned about the price increase that has been. After all, it is the one who has made it more and more impossible for a young person to enter the housing market. Prices have risen very much faster than, for example, wages have. This means that if you do not have capital from the beginning, you are getting further and further away from the possibility of buying a home. Nevertheless, I think it is a positive development that we now have a more stable price trend, that is to say that we do not continue to widen the gap between price and what many people can afford to pay. It can be noted that many of the measures carried out by the former bourgeois government have rather been fueled by price developments. Now that we are debating these issues, it is worth remembering that, according to many assessors and housing economists, the abolished property tax has been on the market quite heavily. It made it more expensive for people to sell their house, and it made more resources available, which led to the appearance of housing prices on the market. It also led to more lock-in effects and to debt that has increased to risky levels. In addition, a reform was implemented that made it more expensive to live in rural areas. So there were many problems that this reform created. It is important to bear this in mind now that we are debating this a few years later. It is important to recall that our leading authorities, which are set by us to assess risks in the Swedish economy, are in fact constantly pointing out that household indebtedness is the biggest risk factor in the Swedish economy. It is about the Riksbank, Finansinspektionen and the Swedish National Debt Office, which now has our leading expertise. But it is not only those, but also international judges such as the European Commission, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. When they look at the Swedish economy and assess the risks, it is precisely household indebtedness that they raise as a major risk. I think it is a bit dangerous to constantly try to tone down those risks and say that they are not so serious. They speak against the leading expertise in the field both in Sweden and internationally. It is worth recalling that the remaining-to-live-on-calculations used by banks are the banks' own models. It is the banks that calculate what interest they think you should be able to pay as a household. It's not a requirement of the state. The banks also have – as you can see – different interest rates that they base on in their left-on-live-on calculations. If Larry Söder wants a change there, I suggest he turn to the banks and ask them why they don't have other conditions. In this context, it is also worth pointing out that we have had a broad agreement on the first amortisation requirement. In fact, it was something that basically brought together the whole political spectrum. We also agreed that this would not apply to new construction. It is clear to the banks that they can exempt new construction and not impose a amortisation requirement there. This applies equally to the enhanced amortisation requirement, i.e. the same exception is also present. In this case too, I propose that Larry Söder address the Swedish banks and question why they do not use the exception that we have offered them in fairly broad political consensus. Nor is this something that the government can force the banks to apply, but it is something that they choose themselves as market players. It's a little simplistic just to point to the government. The market also has a responsibility.
i-670e5f84510687e8-409	Madam President, I would like It is true, as the Minister says, that prices are at a standstill. But I would say that prices stand still because there is no one who can ask for the homes that you want to build. That's one of the problems. In a previous interpellation debate, the Minister and I had a discussion about young people who still live at home. 260 000 young people aged 20-27 still live at home. In fact, 82% of them want their own accommodation. That is the problem we have. It is from their perspective that we are going to take this debate. What is our response to the young people who still live at home? Is the answer that we think the credit restrictions are great and that they are still allowed to live at home? I think the opposite is true. I think that we should try to review the credit restrictions to ensure that the market becomes normal again, that is to say that housing construction is on the increase again, and that these young people can have their own housing. The Minister and I have talked before about some kind of government loan to get rid of the blanks, which reduces the risks. The Minister talks a lot about macroprudential measures and that one should constantly look at the macro perspective. I believe that we should instead have a holistic approach to the housing market. What are the measures that enable the crowd to demand a home and that one can get the dwelling that one feels is best for one's own situation? I do not think the Minister is taking that part in the first place. One can always say as a government that it is others who make decisions and that the banks make demands of 7 – 8 percent. In fact, it is Finansinspektionen who, in dialogue with the banks, says that it should be that control and that you should put it at 7 – 8 percent. I do not think that Finansinspektionen would mind discussing this with the Government in one way or another, even if Finansinspektionen itself decides what their views are on this. I think the Minister is trying a little to explain that the government is paralysed in these discussions. I don't think you are. I think you should be able to have a greater discussion about the credit restrictions that will allow us to get the housing building back on track. The property tax was removed. I am absolutely convinced that it will be gone. It drove people who lived in the wrong place from house and home. It could be that the neighbor had sold his property at a higher price, which made my property tax increase and that I had to leave. The property tax, which exists today, actually gives more revenue to the state than the property tax did. If you want to go back to the property tax, think about how to finance it, whether you want to save your way through it or whether the property tax should be even more unfair than it was before. I think that the property tax should disappear from the debate, and I wish the Minister too. But we can always discuss what the property fee should look like. It can be in a way that enables us to make sure that people can ask for the home they need. Then I think that in the housing debate we need to look at how people can get a place to live. There are quite a few types of accommodation that do not exist today. We have problems with retirement homes. We have problems with student housing. We have problems with young people not getting a place to live. I think we need to see the whole picture. Credit restrictions are part of this, but the solution is not always investment aid for rental rights. Perhaps you also need to see how people can ask for a home to own?
i-670e5f84510687e8-419	Madam President, I would like I am not questioning the reforms that have been implemented, but rather the way in which they were implemented. When you removed the property tax and financed it by raising the capital tax and making it more expensive for those who wanted to move, you caused two different problems. House prices were fired heavily. It turned out that this led to a sharp rise in prices, which of course makes it more difficult for young people, not least, to enter the housing market. It has also made it more difficult for older people, for example, who need to move to a home that is more suitable for their life situation. But I agree with Larry Söder that we should not have a debate on the property tax here. We have no proposal to reintroduce it, so it is not an issue to which we need to devote time. However, I think it is interesting that Larry Söder says that no one can ask for housing. That kind of overdramatism, I think, you might want to stay away from. We can look at the figures in the mortgage survey, which came as late as a few weeks ago. It turns out that we have a well-functioning credit market and that many still borrow and buy housing. The forecasts on which the government based the decision turn out to be quite good. It is about 15 per cent of the new borrowers who are affected by the increased amortisation requirement. About half of them still choose to borrow as much as they intended. But they amortise more than they would otherwise have done, which means that they come down faster into a loan rate that they manage even in difficult times. The other half chooses to buy something smaller or something in another mode that makes them get a little lower costs. This is not just a macroprudential measure or a macro perspective. It is also about people's personal finances. It's just as much about the micro-perspective. As I reminded Larry Söder in a pre-interruption debate, we still have pensioners today, for example, who live with the debts they incurred during the 1990s crisis, precisely because we did not then have an eye on the risks that were built up. People took loans because, like Larry Söder, they thought that the increase in value was automatic and that it would of course come. Turns out that calculation was wrong. The increase in value didn't come. Rather, it became a very fast race in the housing market, which meant that people had to sell at a lower price. The loans were kept in place. They still had the debts, but they didn't have the property. Many live with that debt to this day, decades after. Let's not make that mistake again, Larry Söder! Let us not turn a blind eye to the risks of reckless lending! It is worth remembering that the last financial crisis was also due to an uncautious credit on the US housing market. Reality finally caught up, and the world economy, as much as individual borrowers, ended up in huge difficulties. I think it is important that we have a balance. We must ensure that there is an opportunity to build, and today we have a building at higher levels than we have seen in a very long time. However, we must also remember that there are risks of having a credit granting that does not use a precautionary principle and that does not equip for worse times. I think that we need to think about ways of lowering the thresholds into the housing market, whether it is a rental apartment – investment support is now leading to tens of thousands of homes with lower rental levels – or whether it is the sale market. There we have a discussion to conduct within the framework of the tax review that we have announced in the January agreement, where we will have a particular focus on improving the functioning of the housing market. There we will also have the opportunity to lift up groups that are currently having a difficult time in the housing market. I agree with Larry Söder that there are great difficulties for young people to buy their first home. But I think it is dangerous to think that the whole solution is to dismantle the mechanisms that we have used to create a healthy amortisation culture where it is obvious not only to take out loans but also to actually pay back on loans.
i-670e5f84510687e8-428	Madam President, I would like I can agree that the profit tax is a tax that locks people in. You may refrain from selling a home that you do not really need. You may not move to a regular rental apartment instead, since it is cheaper to stay in the old dwelling than to rent an apartment. I would like us to have a debate on how we could resolve this in a different way. But I haven't heard what the government's proposals are. If we now have the argument that the capital gains tax is all wrong and far too expensive and that we have to do it again in some way, I assume that the government has thought about how to do it again so that it becomes better and creates the necessary mobility in the housing market. It would be interesting if the Minister could give an example of how this could be resolved with regard to the capital gains tax. As far as the credit restrictions are concerned, I do not want us to talk past each other, the Minister and I. It is not that I am in favour of removing the credit restrictions altogether. That is not what I am saying, but I think the whole thing is too big. I think that the burden is far too great for many, and that actually means that they cannot take out a loan. So I think that you should review the whole and maybe remove some parts to make it a little easier to borrow. I do not think it is reasonable that you need to be checked against a housing expenditure of 18 500 per month when the actual expenditure is 8 500 SEK. There is far too much difference between what you have in cost and what you are being tried against. The increased amortisation requirement was also criticised from the outset, and now we see that what was said then has come true.
i-670e5f84510687e8-433	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Larry Söder, for an important debate! When it comes to the profit tax, I think it's worth remembering our history too. It was greatly increased during the time of the alliance government to finance a reduced property tax. It is clear that it has also contributed to the problems that Larry Söder is now pointing to. Now we four parties that are behind the January agreement will jointly conduct a tax review. There I look forward to being able to highlight a housing focus and ensure that the housing market can function better. What I think is important to focus on is just how we can create better opportunities for those who are young or find themselves in a difficult situation in life to be able to get a home and enter the housing market. Here, in particular, the sharp rise in prices, which has been partly due to political decisions, has made it difficult for many young people to enter the housing market, and that is something that we must take into account. I do not share Larry Söder's analysis that the concerns raised in the debate on the enhanced amortisation requirement have come true. On the contrary, we see that the forecasts that we worked on were correct, that is, that a small part of the new borrowers are affected at all and that we have also reduced the risks in the Swedish economy and for the individual households. Those borrowing more than 450 per cent of their gross income have decreased from previously 13.5 per cent to 5.7 per cent. This is a way of ensuring the stability of our economy and also, Larry Söder, taking into account and ensuring that people also have the opportunity to cope with disruption without getting into the huge economic problems that, unfortunately, thousands of people have had to live with since the 1990s crisis. So here I think we have a common responsibility not to fire on a loan that has sometimes been far too careless, as we can say historically, and we should take a responsibility long-term and ensure that we have stability over time. This is also what leads to stable housing over time.
i-670e5f84510687e8-439	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me and the government whether Sida's procedures for evaluating partner organizations work satisfactorily and whether we share Ricardo Meléndez-Meléndez-Ortiz's assessment that SEK 5 million a year in fees is justifiable for this type of organization. I choose to answer the two questions in one context. Continuing the fight against corruption is a key part of the work and the conditions for achieving the Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out in Agenda 2030. It is therefore a priority for the government. It is always unacceptable for money to be used incorrectly to combat poverty. The work to strengthen the fight against corruption has for many years been part of Sida's mission under both present and former governments. Sweden calls for good control and anti-corruption measures in multilateral organisations, as well as in other types of aid, in the implementation of the aid. Both issues raised by Ludvig Aspling have been raised in connection with the case of irregularities within the International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development. The annual audit reports carried out with regard to that organisation have been produced by a large, well-known international audit firm and have been without comment. No significant deficiencies have been raised to the Board of Directors by the audit firm. Furthermore, the organisation has submitted reports on time and continued to carry out its work. When such irregularities are revealed in the aid, Sweden will always react and take the necessary measures. Consequently, in the case of ICTSD, the aid has been suspended in autumn 2018, i.e. last year. On November 29, the business was then shut down. We have also asked for a refund of funds from Sweden. In addition, Sida has assessed that the information provided in the DFID report, which was the basis for disclosure, is sufficient to draw lessons from what has happened. Once suspicions of corruption have occurred are confirmed, as in this case, Sida as the responsible authority will act in accordance with its corruption policy, in brief: always prevent, never accept, always act and always inform in case of suspicion of corruption.
i-670e5f84510687e8-446	Madam President, I would like Last year, the British counterpart of Sida published a report that strongly criticises the International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development, which, as the Minister for Development says, led Sida to conclude the cooperation. Since its inception, Sweden has invested approximately SEK 200 million in this organisation. According to the report, the Executive Director has in practice partly managed the organisation's resources as his own. In addition to salary and fees of around SEK 5 million a year, the CEO has also taken out private loans and used aid funds for private expenses, hired close relatives and made costly trips without proven business purpose. The organisation also suffered from a lack of accounting and generally poor rules of procedure and planning. Corruption, fraud and irregularities are unfortunately everyday in the development industry, but what stands out a little bit in this particular case is that ICTSD has not in any way tried to hide what has been described as irregularities afterwards – which strongly suggests that Ortiz is completely honest when he claims that the sky-high fee is quite normal in the industry – and that the organization has sailed through Sida's allegedly rigorous control mechanisms without comment. All in all, Sida has just over 400 pages of material about this organisation in its archive, which we have requested and looked at. Sida's latest evaluation from 2018 examines seven different reports about the organisation. Its financial reporting is described by Sida as In a major evaluation from 2017, Sida assesses the risks of insufficient governance and control in relation to audit process, financial control and procurement and corruption. All risks are assessed by Sida as These are the same areas that the British report criticised very strongly. Sida has also read documents that openly describe how ICTSD spends SEK 1 million per employee on average. The organisation was also fully open with the CEO's remuneration. All you had to do was e-mail and ask. Madam President, I would like Frankly, I am a little sad when I read Peter Eriksson's interpellational response, where the Government chooses to reject the criticism that the organisation's audit reports, as he says, have been produced by a large, renowned international audit firm and have been without comment[...] When such irregularities are discovered in the aid, Sweden will always react. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Firstly, I would like to emphasise that the issue here is not whether Sweden should act or not when irregularities are detected. The question is whether Sida has done enough to actually expose the irregularities from the beginning. Secondly, it is not true that the organisation has not received criticism in its audit reports. On p. 68 in the report Strategic Review of the International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development ( ICTSD) 2017 under the heading In addition, that year the organisation asked its donors for emergency grants because of that particular situation, which no one at Sida seems to have considered more closely. Thirdly, I wonder what Sida's own evaluation process is really aimed at, if it is the case that the agency is just looking at these audit reports. For example, the audit reports do not address the CEO's salary, probably because SEK 5 million a year seems quite normal in this industry, as we have noted. Madam President, I would like The government chooses to duck for the questions I ask in the interpellation, so I'll try to ask them again. Does the Government consider Sida's review of ICTSD to be of sufficient quality? Does the Government consider it appropriate to pay tax money at all to an aid organisation whose CEO pays SEK 5 million a year?
i-670e5f84510687e8-457	Madam President, I would like I think it is very good that Ludvig Aspling should raise these issues. I myself think that corruption issues are an area that has been under-debated for a long time in Sweden, even though we know that corruption is a poison in society and undermines very much of the other work that we are trying to do through, for example, aid and Sida's work. In fact, Sida has quite extensive work to prevent further corruption and to find systematic corruption in the systems in which it is located and the countries in which it is located. But it is quite clear that it is possible to make things even better in this area. The British aid agency has shown that it was possible to see this. It's not that hard. Sida did a check of the salary earlier, but it was the total, the fee plus other compensations, which turned out to be far too high. The salary alone was not at all remarkably high compared to other agency managers when Sida did its check a few years earlier. But overall, that was the case. In addition, there were a number of other irregularities and problems detected through the UK authority. It should also be remembered that this is a good example in the sense that aid organisations, not least the Swedish, the British, the Danish and a number of others, also work together. You don't do the same job all the time from all countries, you divide the work. At this point, it was the British authority that did a more thorough and detailed investigation in relation to what Mr Aspling is talking about. Here there was a recurring shortage of money and a shortage of money in the organization, and there was reason to investigate what it was really due to. One of the reasons was the unreasonable use of money. Among other things, the fees to the manager were completely unreasonably high. I can certainly agree with Ludvig Aspling that this is an issue worth discussing and that there is much more to be done. During my time as Minister for Development, or Minister for International Development Cooperation, I will work much more on this issue. I think it is a central part of my work and my project to work with democracy issues. Corruption undermines all systematic work for democracy. It also undermines trust in society in institutions as well as the possibility of building a society together.
i-670e5f84510687e8-462	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you very much for your answer. I think it is quite obvious that the Minister for Development is honest when he says that this is something that concerns him. I'm still a little perplexed. The Minister for Development says that Sida has extensive work on this type of control and review of partner organisations. That's right. Sida does a lot of work on that. But the question is how high the quality of that work is. This is not the first time we have discovered that aid money goes to the wrong things. For example, there are the scandals in the Afghan Development Fund (ARTF), the World Bank funds in Somalia and the cane in Tanzania. The list of aid projects that have failed very badly and where money has been used in a totally wrong way can be made very long. It is not just this incident that makes it necessary to ask these questions, but there is a pattern. Time and again we discover cases where aid money goes wrong. This makes it necessary to consider whether Sida's work on this is of sufficient quality. There is one thing above all that makes me a little suspicious in this particular case. When working with aid in countries such as Afghanistan or Somalia, it is in the nature of things that it is difficult to detect when things are not going right. For example, Somalia does not have a public company register. Then it is very difficult to find fraud in public procurement and so on. But this organization has worked in Switzerland, an in-country of first class that has very good control on paper, money and so on. It is very strange that this has been able to go on without anyone having bothered to make a call or send out a survey: How much does your CEO make? We'd love to know. What are his total fees? It doesn't really seem that someone has cared about this, and that's what makes me a little concerned. Another lesson we draw from this story is that, within the culture of the world of aid, its higher employees and leaders are seen as some kind of rock stars that deserve benefits that ordinary civil servants can never dream of. This is an attitude that is exacerbated by the fact that Sida and other donors have a little bit of an interest in reviewing and controlling the beneficiaries. I did not receive an answer from the Minister for Development on what is at the heart of the interpellation, so I ask the question: does the Minister for Development really think it is reasonable to pay aid funds to organisations whose high representatives charge, for example, SEK 5 million in fees per year? ICTSD is not the only organization that does it. According to Openaid, there are a wide range of organisations whose senior representatives and CEOs receive similar remuneration. What I want the Minister for Development to answer is: does he really think that that is reasonable? This is a lot of money. The Minister for Development himself doesn't make much money. We don't make much money. This is very much more than a Swedish director of works or a Swedish departmental council serves. I would like an answer to that. I would also like answers on Sida's review and control work in this particular case. I referred to several documents in my previous speech: the 2017 big evaluation, the last evaluation from 2018 and the document that I have in mind was from 2016 and was the basis for the last payment of 20 or 30 million or something like that – I do not remember the exact figure. Does the Minister for Development think that the various reports and Sida's work in these cases have been of sufficient quality? I'd like to know. It's a yes-or-no question.
i-670e5f84510687e8-468	Madam President, I would like Now Aspling goes a little far. In fact, I have answered exactly those questions. I've said that I don't think it was a reasonable fee. I have said that there was clearly more to be done with regard to the audit, because the British aid authority was able to find these problems and irregularities. When these were discovered, Sida and a number of other countries' development agencies also reacted. This caused compensation to be withdrawn and the organisation to go bankrupt very quickly. I think these were reasonable measures. On the other hand, comparing salaries between different organisations is quite difficult. You should remember that this was a small organization. It is a basis for the assessment that I make when I say – as well as Sida when the totality of fees and salaries came to light – that it was an unreasonable compensation. Another question is: Is it reasonable for so many international organisations to be in Switzerland, where the costs are very high? A pizza costs several hundred crowns in Switzerland, and a minimum wage is higher than the average salary in Sweden. This makes it a completely different situation and culture around the economy. I think it would be good if several of these international aid organisations were to operate from different contexts than the most expensive in the world.
i-670e5f84510687e8-472	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer! Now I feel that I have got a straight and clear answer. I think it is good that the Minister for Development can be straight and say that this is not reasonable. The very fact that this organisation is based in Switzerland is also something that the audit reports have pointed out as problematic, because having its base in Switzerland costs a great deal. But even that's not something that Sida points out in its review of the organisation – at least not what I've read. If I'm wrong, the Minister of State will have to correct me. Sida is not considering whether it is reasonable, partly because of the cost profile in Switzerland, to cooperate with this organisation. Perhaps there is someone who can do an equally good job that has its base elsewhere, which would entail less costs. I have not seen that kind of reasoning in Sida's document. The answer to the second question, if Sida's evaluation work is of sufficient quality, I have to understand that the Minister for Development somewhere admits that here it has not worked very well. I think that all the circumstances suggest that it hasn't worked very well in this case, and there are a large number of cases where it hasn't worked very well either. If the Minister for Development sees it as his task over the next four years to deal with this, no one is happier than I am. One side effect if the Minister for Development succeeds is that he will not have to come here this late in the evening and respond to interpellations. We can both do something else if this works better over the next four years. I must thank you very much and wish the Minister for Development good luck in this work.
i-670e5f84510687e8-477	Madam President, I would like On the last question, it is probably the other way around – unfortunately, let me say – that the better we get in the work of corruption, the more questions we will have to discuss. More cases will probably be revealed. One should not think that we are not immune to or free from corruption either in Sweden or elsewhere. There's a lot of places. The countries to which corruption is rampant are often countries to which we provide aid because they are also poor and mismanaged, which do not have functioning institutions or functioning democracy and which need both humanitarian aid and other things directly for people to survive the day or to cope with the crises and conflicts in which over 100 million people live today. There's probably a lot to discuss in the future, I'm afraid – not least if we now, as I want, invest considerably more in anti-corruption work and develop that area as part of our offensive to strengthen democracy in the world.
i-670e5f84510687e8-480	Madam President, I would like Elin Segerlind has asked me whether I intend to take measures to ensure compliance with the Animal Welfare Act and whether I intend to take initiatives to tighten up the legislation so that chickens in industry are protected from suffering and, if so, in what way. I would like to start by pointing out that it is never acceptable for animals to be injured or caused unnecessary suffering. We have a system in place where official veterinarians at slaughterhouses control the welfare of animals to be slaughtered. It is essential that this works in such a way that possible animal welfare problems are addressed and addressed. However, the primary responsibility for animal welfare lies with the keeper. It is the daily care of the animals and their handling that ensures that the animals are doing well. On 1 April 2019, the new Animal Welfare Act entered into force. The new law updates and modernises the previous law, which has existed for more than 30 years. Both the previous law and the new law contain the most basic provisions for the protection of animals. This includes ensuring that animals are well treated and protected against unnecessary suffering and disease. The introductory provision of the new law makes it clear that the law aims to ensure good animal welfare and to promote good animal welfare and respect for animals. Protecting animal welfare is a priority for the government. I have confidence that the controls carried out by our control authorities will work to detect animal welfare problems. It is good that the industry has its own animal care programmes to capture and correct deficiencies or problems.
i-670e5f84510687e8-484	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my question! It is of course gratifying to hear that animal welfare is an important issue for the Government and for the Government. Therefore, one can only wonder how it is possible that the suffering of animals may continue in this way. It is over a year since the Swedish Food Administration reported that 1,800 chickens each day came to Guldfågels abattoir on Öland with broken wings, some with such extensive damage that bone pipes had penetrated the skin. At least the thought of it makes me feel a little sick because chickens like humans have bone membranes around all the bones that contain lots of nerves, which without requiring any great imagination should make us understand what high level of pain these chickens are going through. Madam President, I would like It is true that the Government replies that the Animal Welfare Act states that animals should be protected from suffering. On the other hand, the law does not specify a specific number of animals to be spared or a percentage to be approved if 60% of animals do not suffer during slaughter. Instead, when we write, we assume that animals are to be spared all pain, pain and suffering and that we are talking about all animals. In Sweden, we boast of ambitious animal welfare legislation. However, if the control of animal welfare legislation does not work and compliance cannot therefore be guaranteed, strict legislation does not mean much for the actual welfare of animals. In 2017, approximately 13 000 notifications of deficiencies in animal husbandry were received by the county administrative boards. Only 30 per cent of these were controlled on site by the county administrative boards, according to the Swedish Board of Agriculture. Thus, far from all controls where deficiencies in animal husbandry have been identified, the county administrative board, which is responsible for deficiencies that do not occur in the slaughterhouse, has followed up. At the same time, the necessary measures have not been taken, the shortcomings at worst have not been remedied and the effects of any improvements made have not been verified. This is now the case in Öland, where the County Administrative Board has been informed of irregularities and injured animals in the slaughterhouse but has not taken action for a year. It is clear that the county boards are not able to carry out their control tasks. That is not to say that the controls that are being carried out are poorly carried out. There may be several measures – either to provide increased funding to the county boards so that they are able to carry out the checks they are going to carry out, or to review whether there are other ways of carrying out the checks in order to relieve the administrative burden. The Left does not believe in increasing the number of self-checks, which are currently used to reduce the cost of controls for slaughterhouses. As far as possible, checks should be carried out by independent parties. The question then is which party is most suitable to also get a holistic perspective for Sweden. For the Left, it is important that both the animal welfare controls carried out and the notifications received are followed up and that measures in the event of deficiencies in animal welfare become the rule and not the exception.
i-670e5f84510687e8-493	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to Elin Segerlind, who asks a question that is very urgent! I think we basically agree that we should have an animal welfare system that we can be proud of in Sweden. I think we do too – our legislation in this area is one of the most far-reaching in the world. We also use this as an argument when we talk about why we want to buy Swedish or why we want to export more. That is something we have great reason to guard. We have a new law in place from 1 April, i.e., since just over a week. The law has been developed and modernised, and that is a good thing. Of course, this does not mean that all is peace and joy. We must continuously work to ensure that control works, above all; there we are in complete agreement. As regards the current case referred to in the interpellation, Elin Segerlind mentions in his speech that it is a year since the check was made and asks why this has been allowed to continue. My answer is that it has not been allowed to continue. A number of different measures have been taken and it has been established that there are a number of different things that have interacted so that the percentage of damaged wings has been measured at 1.8%. A project has been launched to evaluate everything from loading machines to loading personnel, transport containers, the environment in the stables, light levels during loading, feed impact, health status of chickens, carcass weight, practices throughout the value chain, differences between holdings and between farmers, transport of chickens, and handling and routines in slaughterhouses. It is quite a comprehensive piece of work that has been set in motion. This was followed up a few months ago. At the turn of February/March, a new major check was made, which is now being compiled. The result of that control is not yet known, but my hope is, of course, that it will show a much better outcome. At the same time, it is important to remember that it is the county administrative board that has the means of sanction in this context. When a sanction or injunction has been issued, a time limit is set and an action plan is drawn up. A number of things are being delivered, and if we do not deliver what has been said, there is the possibility of further sanctions. It could be a matter of fines or, at worst, of not keeping animals. There are a number of different sanctions that can be imposed. However, I think it is important to point out in this context that it is not up to me to decide whether this has been dealt with adequately or not. It is the competent authorities and veterinarians who have the control powers and the powers to impose sanctions. Our responsibility is to ensure that we have reasonable legislation. There I feel that we have taken a clear grip, both with the law that has existed and with the law that has now come into place. We also take a responsibility by following these issues very closely and having a dialogue with the responsible control authorities to ensure that they in turn have the tools they need.
i-670e5f84510687e8-503	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I understand perfectly that, as the Government says, this individual case is not the responsibility of the Government, but I use it as an example of the routine. The project that has been launched, as the Government is talking about, regarding the management of the procedures is very important, but I still think that it is flawed somewhere when the County Administrative Board only carries out checks in 30% of all cases that are reported. We already know that the large-scale chicken meat industry is associated with a wide range of risks to the welfare of chickens. For example, rapid growth makes it difficult for chickens to maintain their own body weight. The chickens suffer from crowds in the stables, the mechanical collection and so on. Of course, what the new animal welfare legislation has for its effects, we will have to come back to. However, the Left Party has on several occasions proposed changes to animal welfare legislation, which are not included in the new legislation, in order to reduce animal suffering. It is about greater opportunities for outdoor and natural behaviour, increased supervision and reduced meat consumption, to name but a few parameters. Chicken meat production would also have to change its approach and use breeds that grow slower, reduce transport time for live chicks and move to the transport of meat instead of chickens. It is also clear that clear directives are needed for county administrative boards to give priority to monitoring and monitoring of measures in the event of deficiencies in animal husbandry, as well as a fixed time limit for fixing errors. A 30% follow-up rate, as we have noted, cannot be considered satisfactory. The Swedish Animal Welfare Act is something to be proud of – we can agree on that. It shows a high level of ambition, but the concrete measures come first at regulation level, mainly from the Swedish Board of Agriculture. That is where we will see what the law will mean in practice. When the details also come first in the government's regulations, they are not sanctioned either. The hope and strong wish of the Left Party is that the Minister, on whom she was concerned, will now follow the development of the new Animal Welfare Act in practice and continue to act to strengthen animal welfare, for yet we have not reached all the way. The Swedish animal welfare legislation and controls on the welfare of animals are, as was the case with the Government, a strong reason why many people choose to eat Swedish meat. This in itself is also a value to take into account, because a weakened image of Swedish animal husbandry could mean reduced consumption of Swedish meat in favour of imported meat. The Finnish Food Authority is also evaluating its control function in slaughterhouses to develop modern control methods and ensure that controls are followed up. The Left Party wishes the Government to follow this work closely and take the necessary measures to further strengthen the controls at our Swedish slaughterhouses.
i-670e5f84510687e8-513	Madam President, I would like Once again, I believe that we are fundamentally in agreement. Perhaps we differ somewhat in the confidence we have in our supervisory bodies. What is important, I think, as Elin Segerlind himself points out, is that we on the political side are not satisfied and are prepared to continue to follow the issue in order to see that we have the effect we want. It's me, and my picture is that it's something we have in common in Swedish politics. This is, of course, a political issue on which there is rather little political controversy. There is a great deal of consensus on the importance of this. I was going to comment briefly on the amount of controls that are being carried out. Here you have limited resources, and of course it is a budgetary question whether you should contribute more money to the county administrative board. But it is a question over which neither I nor Elin Segerlind fully control. However, this is something that needs to be noted. Given the resources you have, you need to prioritise so that you use them wisely. The number of notifications is constantly increasing, and it is good that people report. However, we can also note that many of the notifications made concern cats, dogs and other pets. A follow-up shows that quite a large part of them, more than half of them, do not result in going ahead with some kind of remark. But this obviously takes time from the risk or event-based controls, the planned and preventive controls and the work that needs to be done. It is therefore good that we are now working purposefully to develop methods to identify what requires a visit and what can be handled in another way and to ensure that you also have time to do follow-up checks. In this context, it is reasonably a priority to have time for this, because otherwise the control system will be self-evident in some sense ineffective. There is work going on there, which I think means making control more effective in a positive way. I am very pleased with that, but of course we will continue to follow this. Elin Segerlind also highlights a number of things that the Left Party has proposed, and I can sympathise with many of them. I note, however, that I will not be able to respond to them all, but I can mention, for example, that it should be timed. My picture is that it is. As soon as there is an injunction, it is accompanied by a time limit. You also emphasise that there should be sanctions. My view is that there are good opportunities for sanctions within the framework of the legislation we have. It is also the case that you can and must report serious crimes, which will then be prosecuted, processed, prosecuted and so on according to the usual rules. Now we talk a lot about what we do in Sweden. In this context, however, I would like to stress that if we want to continue to maintain the high quality we have, it is urgent that we work in a structured manner towards the European Union and within European cooperation. Sweden has been a driving force in some of the issues you mention here, such as the length of transport. We have managed to establish a collaboration around a platform with a number of sub-groups working on priority issues – transport is one and piglets another. There are a number of different issues. We have this issue high priority, and that is important.
i-670e5f84510687e8-522	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Jennie Nilsson! Basically, we have a strong consensus on this. As you say, it is also important to take the EU perspective into account, because animal welfare legislation is very much about the EU regulation on animal welfare. There's, like you say, a lot to do. I can still feel, on the basis of the situation at the slaughterhouse on Öland and that the Swedish Food Safety Agency says that it probably looks the same in other slaughterhouses dealing with chickens, that we have some shortcomings in the handling and controls and that we need to look at this. Although it is as the Government says, that a large part of the notifications that come to the County Administrative Board concern just domesticity, it is a low level of follow-up. I fully understand that this is a budgetary issue, but the priorities may need to be reviewed. In the end, it's about 1,800 chickens a day. If you slaughter every day, it is 648 000 a year or at least half a million a year, and it is only in a slaughterhouse. Then I think that it is quite a long way from what animal welfare legislation says about animals being spared any pain, pain or suffering. I hope that we can now ensure that this happens.
i-670e5f84510687e8-525	Madam President, I would like I not only hope but expect the industry to take this very seriously, and it applies to any industry. I would rather talk about this in more fundamental terms than talking about an individual company. There should be a broad consensus between politics, industry and the Swedish Government that it serves us all well to have good practices and good control, and it is in the industry's interest to also address problems. I therefore expect that measures have been taken on the companies that have had controls and problems and that it will also be best practice throughout the industry to ensure that they have procedures that ensure a high level of animal protection. I also think it is very important that we have this kind of debate. I also think it shows somewhere that v i has a pretty good order in Sweden: When you discover things it is reported, and it becomes widely known also to the public and the media. There will be discussion, which in itself increases the incentives and interest in correcting problems. This is not the case in all countries. This is therefore a good thing, and I therefore think it is very good that we have this interpellation debate. We show very clearly that we care, and we expect that there will be results when you discover misdemeanours. If there are no results, there are sanctions to be imposed, and I expect them to be taken up in all cases that are reported where problems are not dealt with.
