i-71b8162822ff7c86-9	Madam President, I would like In my first speech here in Parliament on personal assistance – I think it was 2013 – I talked, among other things, about the importance of reviewing the basic needs. I also talked about that it was unreasonable that a person who can bring the food to the mouth himself should not be considered to meet the requirements for the basic need help with meals. I simply wanted to review the basic needs at that time. Now we're standing here six years later talking about probe feeding and breathing. Instead, the debate has now come to be about whether it should even be regarded as a basic need to get help with breathing or feeding. It has always been a complete obvious to me. Even having a discussion about whether nutrition and breathing should be regarded as a basic need is somewhat absurd. Today, an honest attempt is being made to address this problem, because the report proposes that breathing should be regarded as a basic need for entitlement to assistance compensation under the LSS. Of course, it's amazing to stand here in 2019 and decide or decide that breathing is actually a basic need! For my part, my breathing has been quite central and basic ever since 1971. Madam President, I would like According to a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, probe feeding is part of the basic need for meals, and therefore, according to the Government, there is no reason to include probe feeding as a separate basic need in the legislative text. Thus, we have – and I have not had anything against it in substance – had a debate after a debate on something that was considered to be clear and clear already in the previous legislative text. Probation has previously been an assisted help need. But then the application changed, and the conditions disappeared. Now it is clear that the legal text is clear and good, and probe feeding will again be allowed to be included. Madam President, I would like This shows how important it is that we are clear in the preparatory work and in the text of the law so that no one can misinterpret or undermine the original intentions. The application must go hand in hand with the intentions; it is very important. I am, of course, pleased that the government is now taking a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, however, the proposal does not include all the elements in the need for assistance. Here I agree with many of the referral bodies who believe that the entire time it takes to meet the need for respiratory assistance or probe feeding should be assistance-based as a basic need. It will be a little strange to get help with probe feeding if no one is there to make the preparations and all the afterwork. The current proposal is therefore a proposal which looks good on paper but which will not work fully in reality. Today's proposal does not fully meet the purpose of the announcement that we here in Parliament decided on in December 2018. This meant that the government would promptly return with a bill that ensures that breathing and gavage should be considered as basic needs. This would also ensure that it was the most vulnerable persons who would also be entitled to assistance compensation. The fact that not all elements are to be counted means that it is also not ensured that it is those who have the greatest need and who are the most vulnerable who will get the help they need. I know, Madam President, that the government now intends to change the wording so that all the elements relating to probe feeding and respiratory help will be included in the basic need – that is, just the feeding and breathing. Once again, it is a good idea which unfortunately seems to be completely wrong, but it is a debate that we can take when we have a concrete proposal on the table. What I want to say right now is that I hope that the government will come to its senses and listen to the massive criticism that already exists and come back with a revised and well thought-out proposal. Just breaking out breathing and probing will lead to major problems for other groups. But, as I said, I will try to stick to the proposal we have on the table today. In our follow-up motion to today's proposal, we write the following: It is important to ensure that all elements of the basic needs should also give the right to personal assistance. Basic needs must, of course, be considered to be of a close integrity nature; otherwise the basic intentions of the LSS will be abandoned. It is also a concept that we want to remove because our view is that basic needs by definition are of a very personal nature. This is also what the legislator had in his original intention. In the preparatory work for LSS it is stated: The assistance must be reserved for demanding or complex situations in different respects, usually of a very personal nature. Decisive should be whether the individual needs personal help to cope with his or her hygiene, to get help in undressing, to take meals, and to communicate with others. In other words, in the preparatory work it is written that what we today call basic needs is to regard as the concept of very personal character. With this reasoning, all the elements of all the basic needs should also give the right to personal assistance, just as it was originally intended. In doing so, we also mean that the concept of integrity is completely superfluous and creates more problems than it creates clarity. In conclusion, Madam President, we support the Government's proposal. It is a step in the right direction, even if it feels somewhat unworked. I also support our reservation 1, in which we want future legislative proposals to ensure that, in all fundamental needs, all elements give the right to personal assistance and that the basic needs are, of course, considered to be of a close integrity nature. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-25	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we have absolutely fantastic legislation that guarantees that if the accident occurs, we will together ensure that everyone has the right to continue living their lives with self-determination and empowerment regardless of functionality. It is a position based on the only reasonable belief that all people are equally worth and should have the right to live a good life. It was in 1994 that Sweden introduced the completely revolutionary freedom reform called LSS. It was a decision that led us to move away from people being locked up in institutions, completely deprived of their democratic rights, to guaranteeing our active citizenship. But in the last ten years there has been a shift in Swedish morality. It is a shift to the fact that money is more important than our right to live like others, not because we have some lack of the former, but because the view of human rights and value must have changed. It is not possible to interpret the development of the last decade with personal assistance in any other way. From 2009, interpretations of the case-law of a number of judgments, combined with a malicious debate on cheating and criminality from politics, have created the possibility to break personal assistance with strange precision. It is a course of action that has caused thousands of people to lose their right to live a life like others on their own terms, all without political force. The consequences have been devastating. It is indeed brutal testimony from those who have been affected that have reached us in recent years. We have witnessed how young people have not been allowed to devote their lives to all that young people give, but instead have had to fight hard against authorities to defend their rights. We have seen how parents who are completely broken have been forced to expose their private lives to the public to show what hell has hit them. We have witnessed how people have been placed under house arrest and can no longer work or meet friends because their needs have no longer been considered sufficient. A woman has even been found dead in a toilet, probably as a result of loss of assistance. This is truly a disgrace to Sweden. Madam President, I would like So the starting point for the crisis that we are seeing today is the judgment that meant that only the integrity-related parts should be counted for assistance. Jonas Franksson from STIL put it so perfectly: At present, it is in practice the time the assistant's hand touches your naked skin or when your naked skin is exposed that counts as a basic need. Then a number of judgments have further narrowed down what can be seen as fundamental needs. But no matter how clearly the disability movement and we have shown where the basis of the problem lies, two governments in a row have refused to adjust for that very thing, right up to now. We should be really happy about the proposal on breathing and gavage. Unfortunately, however, this also causes serious concern. In the proposal, the cooperation parties say that breathing and gavage should be assessed in their entirety. Therefore, these two particular needs should not be assessed on the basis of whether they are privacy sensitive or not. In this context, it should be clarified that the 2009 practice should not apply. The reason should reasonably be that the government realises that this is a must if the new legislation is not to be completely toothless. So it is finally realised that assistance is almost impossible if it is only the time that the hand meets naked skin that counts. Consider my surprise when, in the next step, in the proposal presented last week, we want to include this particular legal application in the legal text. It should therefore be explicitly stated in the law that it is only the integrity-related parts that should be eligible for assistance, except when it comes to breathing and probe feeding that should be excluded. It no longer becomes practice; it becomes law. Madam President, I would like The consequences of this are devastating. Today's legislative change creates a separate regulation between the different basic needs, which is problematic in itself. But above all, in the next step, the possibility of getting government assistance is being broken. If the application were to be included in the legal text, it would in practice mean a municipalisation, since even the one with the greatest need would not qualify. In this situation, none of us are anymore guaranteed to live their lives like others regardless of functionality. What the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, seems prepared to do is to save a hundred people with the proposal that we have here today to pull the carpet for thousands in the next step. That doesn't make any sense. Madam President, I would like Of course, we want both breathing and probe feeding to be eligible for assistance, but that it should be done in the right way. So even if we support the bill that we are discussing here today, we want all the basic needs in their entirety to be taken into account. However, in order to ensure real assistance, we require the government to set up a new investigation in which the law is reviewed on the basis of all judgments that have been handed down since 2009 and then restore the law to its basic intention. It is a demand that we have been pushing for ten years but which has now become more topical than ever. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that we all understand what is at stake when we do not have a working LSS. We all have to face up to the fact that one day this can affect each and every one of us and that this is about your right and my right to live a fine life with jobs, friends and family and with the power to make our own choices. We must all realise that one day it may be you or I who are forced to carry out the most private parts of our lives in front of an authority person with a clock in his hand, where our entire existence lies in the hands of politics's conception of what a life is worth. This is the reality for thousands of people today. We in the Left Party have that insight fully. That is why we are calling for legislation that Sweden can be proud of again. We support all our reservations, but I call for reservation 3.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-41	Madam President, I would like The very essence of our welfare is that our common tax funds should be used to support those most in need. None of us know whether tomorrow we will need the support of welfare. We can all have a child or a grandchild with extensive disabilities. We can all suddenly experience a severe stroke or a road accident in the middle of life. Because of medical advances, we can in many cases be saved back to life. At the same time, however, we can become dependent on someone else's help to cope with our daily lives. It is therefore crucial to protect LSS and personal assistance – this social innovation that Bengt Westerberg, then People's Party Minister for Social Affairs, initiated. LSS is an insurance policy for all of us, and the law was supported by a united parliament in the midst of the deep economic crisis of the 1990s. Madam President, I would like Thanks to assistance, people with extensive disabilities can participate in society and live their lives fully on their own unique conditions. Thanks to the assistance, many people can work and contribute to their welfare by paying taxes. Thanks to the assistance, parents of young children and adult children can focus on being mothers and fathers. They can feel calm and sleep safely at night. They can work and pay taxes. They can build the family's finances and create a secure environment for their entire family. Thanks to the assistance, siblings of persons with extensive disabilities can be siblings on equal terms in their family. They can get the support they need from their parents. They can get help with homework, a ride to practice and a hug when they need it. Thanks to assistance, the quality of life and mental health of tens of thousands of people in our country are being strengthened. But the assistance costs a lot of money, someone thinks. Yeah, that's it. It's a big item in the state budget. No one can deny that. Now I'm going to be overly clear. People with extensive disabilities will always incur a cost to society in one way or another. The need for support in everyday life does not disappear simply because their assistance is withdrawn. The basis for saving assistance is therefore about which society we want. The S-MP government wrote a devastating letter of regulation to Försäkringskassan in 2016. The directive to cut the number of hours spent in assistance has reduced the specific state budget by billions. But at what cost? Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that these cuts have taken place at a devastatingly high price and inhumane suffering. Many people with extensive disabilities and their relatives today live in a constant nightmare. Those who were rescued by the review ban live in constant fear of the end of the stop. At the same time, they do not dare to seek more support, even though their needs have increased, because a re-assessment based on today's tougher case law would likely lead to a loss of the hours they have today. Life has been destroyed for all those who were not fortunate enough to be saved by the review. People have been deprived of their freedom and participation in society. They are forced into social isolation and house arrest. Many people with mental disabilities, who are particularly sensitive to change, express that they no longer want to live without their assistants. After a long time of constant responsibility around the clock, more and more parents are no longer able to cope. They are forced against their will to give away their beloved children to orphanages, what we used to call an institution. Since 2016, it is largely impossible to obtain assistance from Försäkringskassan when applying for the first time. Maybe you read just like me in Aftonbladet the other day about little Ebbe who is five years old. Ebbe is the only person in Sweden, and one in only 50 people worldwide, who have a special chromosome aberration. Ebbe suffers from epilepsy, retardation and muscle relaxation. He can't talk, sit, stand or make conscious movements. The parents have to help Ebbe with everything. However, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency does not consider that he is eligible for assistance. It is not possible to fully understand the pain that the victims live with, but we actually have to try. Those of us who are elected to the Swedish Parliament have responsibility for – and the opportunity – to change the law so that these people get their lives back. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are clear: there are no economic benefits if a reduction in assistance leads to a lower level of support for and a deterioration in the quality of life of people with extensive disabilities and their relatives. In addition, when costs increase in municipalities, tax revenues decrease and other state subsidies skyrocket – for example, when relatives end up in sick leave – we are on the wrong path. I am therefore grateful that we Christian Democrats agree with the Moderates that the cost of assistance should be seen in the overall socio-economic perspective. Madam President, I would like It is extremely strange, but today we are discussing a change of law that means that breathing should be a basic need. So far from the intention of LSS, the government's devastating regulatory letter has shifted the case law. We're really in a state of disaster. It is, of course, to be welcomed that a small step is now being taken in order to save the right to assistance if necessary with breathing aid. It was decided that this would happen when Parliament gave support to the KD-M budget last December. At the same time, it is deeply regrettable that the S-MP government and its support parties C and L have allowed this to take so long. The disability movement and the consultation bodies, together with us Christian Democrats, have given sharp criticism during several stages of the process. Several times the government has had to back down and redo, and the question of probe feeding has not yet been resolved. We Christian Democrats are fighting hard to recreate a society where you can trust that you will get help when you need it. We must restore the right to assistance and get human dignity back into our assessments. A crucial part of the work ahead is therefore to ensure that all the elements to meet all the basic needs become assistance-based. Madam President, I would like I therefore support our Amendment No 2. I regret with all my heart that not all parties in the Swedish Parliament make the same priority. We should be able to do better.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-62	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a proposal for a change of law that means that the need for help with breathing should give the right to personal assistance. In short, the change means that breathing will be part of the basic needs that give the right to personal assistance under the Act on Support and Service to Certain Persons with Disabilities. The reason for introducing breathing as a basic need is that there are many people, especially children and young people, who today do not receive this natural support from society. The interventions can range from respiratory care to respiratory mucosal sucking or monitoring. It is proposed that the amendment will apply from 1 November this year. Now many of the victims will get these obvious contributions from society. Families and relatives will also have the relief needed to reconcile work with family life. Family members have had to take too much responsibility to make everyday life work. For the basic need meals included help with probe feeding, according to a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. Therefore, there is no reason to include this separately in the legislative text. On the other hand, the S-led government returns with a proposal for personal assistance for all elements related to breathing and meals in the form of probe feeding. The legislative amendments are already submitted for consultation and are proposed to enter into force next July. As you know, the S-led government has signed a January agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals. One of the points highlights LSS in particular. It must be characterised by high quality and legal certainty, and it is intended to ensure the law. The aim is to ensure that everyone who is entitled to support receives it. The aim is to ensure that the right to assistance for breathing, gavage and self-care is restored. It should also ensure that the right to supervisory assistance is strengthened. It also wants to review the definition of normal parental responsibility, which will be proposed to be narrower. Madam President, I would like These are clear promises that are binding. They show that we Social Democrats protect the unique law of rights LSS, which is so important to the individual's self-determination and influence over his life situation. We also know that, since 2009, there have been a number of precedents that have greatly changed the right to support fundamental needs. The matter we are dealing with today is a consequence of this change. Even future legislative amendments that the government will present will, however, restore LSS to what was the intention of the law when it was written – hence our clear priorities. For more than ten years, the Law on Support and Service to Certain Persons with Disabilities has deteriorated for legal reasons. With the facts in hand, several of us parties would have acted more quickly. At the same time, this is a very complex law that requires careful preparatory work so that legal trials will last in the future. The most important thing, however, is that the support should be available to those who need it. Madam President, I would like Already during the previous term of office, the S-led government took several steps to restore LSS according to needs. Initially during the last parliamentary term, a major investigation was launched which resulted in the report Review of LSS interventions and assistance payments. I regret that this has not yet been referred back. Regardless of what we think of the proposals, it is important to have the review as a basis for quickly getting started with proposals that will secure the LSS in the future. Another important report initiated by the government was a review of the impact of the amended case law. The Parliament also adopted a new law that meant that two-year trials were frozen and that it was ensured that personal assistance could be granted between interventions. Madam President, I would like In the forthcoming ministry memorandum, we do what we have promised: the whole breathing and probe feeding will be counted in the future. In addition, we remove parental responsibility from these needs, in order to ensure that children with these needs are entitled to assistance. Restoring the right to assistance for persons in need of breathing and probe feeding is an important step in creating a more secure assistance legislation. However, in order to get faster decisions on the necessary legislative changes regarding support for breathing as basic needs, the government is moving forward with this proposal quickly. Because there are many people out there who are having a tough time today. The forthcoming legislative amendments will complement today's dossier. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motion for a resolution.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-73	Madam President, I would like Mikael Dahlqvist and I have met during the past year in some debates outside the Riksdag on this particular issue of assistance. I know that the honourable Member shares the basic position of us Christian Democrats – that much needs to be done on this issue and that it is a difficult situation. Mikael Dahlqvist has also stated that the intention must be ensured in order for us to move forward and get good support. In his speech, the honourable Member spoke a little about the forthcoming memo, which is based on the draft law on breathing and gavage. It shall be ensured that they are seen in full. Since this proposal came this week, there has been an incredible amount of concern in the disability movement. Concerns relate to the risk that it would lead to the cementing of the case-law for other fundamental needs and that only these elements would be the basis for assistance if these elements were included in § 9(a) on privacy sensitive and private matters. I feel that the honourable Member has followed that debate. My question is: does the honourable Member share this concern?
i-D9R9JBtupGvpaU7mDKb65j	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for the question! We broadly agree with Pia Steensland's description of what LSS should look like and develop. We also agree with this as a party. Then, like me, Pia Steensland knows that the reasons why we have the situation we have today are of a legal nature. There is no amendment to the law of Parliament except the amendment we made at the end of the last parliamentary term that ensured some functions. This is a law on rights, which means that there is not really a budget, but that it is based on the need for action that a forecast is made. We have not made any cuts; I want to be clear about that. Now we take step by step to ensure, together with our partner parties, that LSS works as we have planned. The first step we are discussing today is breathing. Pia Steensland asked me about the forthcoming memo and how it can affect the other basic needs. My simple answer is, I don't know. Unfortunately, I do not have the legal competence to assess this at present. My honest answer is that, of course, we will have to look into this and see if there is any danger to what is claimed.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-82	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Dahlqvist for his honest reply. I take it that, like us Christian Democrats and a number of representatives of the disability movement, he is concerned about the legislative proposal that is now before us. There is a risk that the government will again need to back down on this issue and do it better. I would also like to make it clear that although there has been no change here in Parliament that has affected the cuts, Mikael Dahlqvist's party Social Democrats wrote in 2016 a regulation letter that gave directives to the agency Försäkringskassan to slow down the development of the number of hours. In practice, this letter of regulation has led the Social Insurance Agency to interpret judgments, including from 2009, much more restrictively than before. It has become the case that the letter of regulation has indirectly influenced. This is part of the policy of the Social Democrats – it is difficult to get away from. How will the honourable Member in the work to come ensure that this bill will not actually cause more people to lose their right to assistance? How should the honourable Member ensure that current case law is not included in law?
i-71b8162822ff7c86-86	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Steensland for her questions. Pia and I obviously have different views on the significance of a regulatory letter. I note, as I have done many times from this pulpit, that the Supreme Administrative Court started to amend the legislation on basic needs in 2009. We also saw a declining number of authorisations already in 2008, 2009 and 2010, so this is a process that has been going on. True, it has accelerated in recent years... where I share your view. However, I still maintain that the Government has exactly the same ambition as the Christian Democrats on this issue. This is a unique law on rights, and we must safeguard its intentions. Then we have different views on how to do this and on what preparatory work is required. In my role as a Member, I will, of course, follow the matter and ensure that the decision we take leads forward. After all, that is our whole purpose; we do not want to further weaken the legislation.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-90	I just want to tell the honourable Members that I am not clear now, because this disturbs others who listen to the debate. On the other hand, I would like to remind Members to speak to the President rather than to the other speaker. It is for the President to be addressed.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-91	Madam President, I would like Mikael Dahlqvist said in his speech, which I was very pleased to hear, that the ambition is to restore the legislation to what is the basic intention. Like Pia Steensland, we see that in the memo presented last week there is a very worrying wording that would consolidate the case law that prevails since 2009. I'm pretty sure you and I agree, Mikael Dahlqvist. You also mentioned in your post that it was precisely the judgment of 2009 that was the start of the terrible accident we have seen. My question to you is: what do you want to do in concrete terms to restore the legislation to its basic intention?
i-71b8162822ff7c86-94	Madam President, I would like Our ambition, together with our partners, is clear if you look at the agreement that has been reached: we shall ensure the right to personal assistance and have legislation that works. We will have to come back to exactly what this means in detail. It is true, Madam President, that this issue needs to be properly investigated – it shows history in particular. We see that the scope for interpretation in current legislation is great. It is therefore a delicate task to provide a correct description of the policy with regard to legislation. My answer to the honourable Member, Madam President, is that we will now be taking steps to take account of the fact that we have the aim of getting help if you have need. There's no talk about that. How this is then designed, we will have to come back to – we must have a whole legal entity to look at it. But the ambition is high, I would say.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-97	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that the agreement is so clear as to show what it means to ensure assistance. Mikael Dahlqvist has returned on several occasions to the fact that it is not the government that has done anything, but it is the case law that has eroded the legislation. In my world, I think that we, as a legislative assembly, have the power to make sure that the law is adjusted to the judgments that have been passed since 2009 and to this day. This has been our main demand for ten years. What I miss– which I really wish you could be clear about – is precisely a position on whether you will adjust the law from the judgment that came in 2009 and up to today. We both know that this is the basis of the situation we have now. My question is: do you have a clear position on the judgment that fell in 2009?
i-71b8162822ff7c86-101	Madam President, I would like May Karlsson asks me what we intend to do to ensure that we do not end up in the current situation. I share your view, Mr Karlsson, that the agreement is written in white, and that is what happens when you negotiate. What is going on now is dialogue between the parties on how we arrive at the position we have signed on what we want to do. It would be wrong for me to precede the democratic process between the parties. I would therefore like to come back to the matter.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-103	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the draft decision to be approved in the report. Assistance reform has provided people with extensive disabilities with good opportunities for self-determination and influence over their own life situation. The Act on Assistance and Service to Certain Disabled Persons, now shortened to LSS, entered into force on 1 January 1994. However, we note that the development of practice has meant that certain needs that have previously been considered to be eligible to support the operation of personal assistance no longer do so. On December 20, 2018, the Riksdag decided on an announcement that the Government should urgently return with legislative proposals that ensure that breathing and probe feeding should be considered as basic needs that can give the right to personal assistance under the Act on Support and Service to Disabled People – this because the draft budget from the Moderates and Christian Democrats gained a majority in the Riksdag. In response to the announcement of the Riksdag, the memorandum Needs for Breathing and Probation Assistance has been prepared by a working group at the Ministry of Social Affairs. The memorandum proposes that help with breathing and probe feeding should constitute basic needs that can give the right to personal assistance. The underlying idea of the assistance reform is the right to have the opportunity to shape their own lives and that people who need extensive help of a very private nature should be given a decisive influence on who should give the assistance. The support should therefore be designed and provided by a limited number of people to those who, due to large and permanent disabilities, need help with basic needs. Basic needs in this case refer to help with personal hygiene, meals, getting dressed or communicating with others or other help that requires a thorough knowledge of the person with a disability. Those entitled to personal assistance for their basic needs also have the right to personal assistance for other personal needs, unless otherwise provided. When these beautiful words are said, all interpretations and boundaries that often make it difficult to understand why one user can get LSS support while another with similar handicaps is not. One of the most common misunderstandings is about healthcare. Personal assistance or state assistance allowance cannot currently be granted for nursing operations under the Health Care Act. However, a nursing operation performed as self-care is not carried out according to HSL. Self-care refers to a healthcare measure performed by a qualified healthcare professional. It is not generally possible to say which measures constitute self-care, but it must be assessed in each individual case. Self-care measures can range from simpler measures, such as seedling and putting on support stockings, to more advanced measures such as home dialysis and even respiratory care. The Supreme Administrative Court, the HFD, has in the last ten years, as has already been said here in the pulpit, come up with a number of judgments that have made the assessment more restrictive. That's what everyone's been testifying to so far. The Supreme Administrative Court states that the starting point is that personal assistance should not replace the care that the medical authorities are obliged to provide. Health care measures within HSL cannot therefore give the right to personal assistance. As a result, assistance payments cannot be made, as is also stated in the Social Security Code. However, self-care is not performed according to HSL. According to the Supreme Administrative Court, there is therefore no fundamental obstacle to taking self-care into account when assessing whether there is a right to personal assistance or assistance compensation. Just when one legal quibble goes against the other, it becomes very difficult to interpret this. According to the Supreme Administrative Court, it should be crucial for the body to be nourished, for example in the case of gavage or other feeding. The way in which the food is consumed should not be decisive. Probation is therefore, according to the Supreme Administrative Court, already approved for assistance compensation, and this is important. Madam President, I would like In this proposal, the Government has made the following suggestions and interpretations after the Parliament's request last year: Breathing aid should be such a basic need that can give the right to personal assistance under the Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled Persons. The government's assessment is that, according to a decision by the Supreme Administrative Court, help with probe feeding is part of the basic need for meals. Then there is the question of whether this holds true. The discussion about the various cases of breathing and probe feeding shows just how difficult it is to get straight guidelines that everyone can understand and take on board. The Law Council says, among other things, about this: In December 2018, the Riksdag decided on an announcement that the Government should urgently return with a bill that ensures that breathing, among other things, should be considered a basic need that can provide the right to personal assistance under the Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled People, LSS. Basic needs thus have a narrow and distinct meaning in the LSS and do not refer to basic needs in a more general sense, which makes it very difficult to understand. The explanation for this is that LSS was not aimed at addressing these needs but at promoting participation in society and strengthening the individual's ability to live an independent and independent life. The proposal makes it possible for persons who, under the LSS Act, belong to the group of persons who need help breathing to receive such help through personal assistance, so that will be an improvement. The proposal is also considered to benefit families and relatives who can have the relief needed to reconcile work and family life. The Socialstyrelsen's dialogue meetings with user organisations show that family members often have to take overall responsibility for meeting the needs not covered by alternative interventions from personal assistance. Madam President, I would like The position of the Moderates on this issue is precisely that these urgent legislative proposals should have been brought forward more quickly. People have been squeezed when the square interpretations have appeared, and our party leader has repeatedly raised this and wanted a clearer interpretation to help these vulnerable people. It also turned out that our budget, together with the Christian Democrats, won approval in the Riksdag in December 2018. But it is still nice that we are getting this change to the legislation on 1 November and that after that – perhaps the most important – we will continue with evaluations that will eventually lead to new proposals. This is important in order to restore LSS in the future as it was originally intended.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-119	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with Lars-Arne Staxäng's speech. I fully share his story of the legal circus that has been going on and that it is the reason for the deterioration of the legislation. That is why I would like to express my thanks. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng may correct me if I am wrong, but under the expenditure items in the shadow budget of the Moderates concerning this area nothing is mentioned. The only thing I can understand is that there is a proposal for a halving of compensation for wage and price increases, which could mean, for example, halving the flat-rate amount. The flat-rate amount is the amount received for each hour of intervention granted. My question to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng is therefore: How do you intend to finance your ambitions for future legislation?
i-71b8162822ff7c86-122	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Dahlqvist for the question, and my answer will be rather brief. This is politics, and it throws arguments back and forth. As far as our budget is concerned, we have many flat rates and do not talk about in detail that this and so much should go to LSS or that si and so much should be withdrawn or put on. Overall, in most social areas, we have spent more money than the government. It is quite right, however, that this is not the case. But our ambition, which I highlighted in the speaker's chair, is that this should be restored in the LSS, as several other speakers have said. We need to have a clear legal interpretation of this so that one person does not get no and the other one does with similar handicaps, because that is not how we can do it. We agree that legislation must be evaluated in order to produce legislation that people can fully understand. The budget debate can take place in a month or two and then hit the figures in each other's heads. But don't get it involved in this LSS debate, please.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-126	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars-Arne Staxäng for his answer. We agree on the background and that we must try to get the scope for interpretation set out in the current legislation in order. We will certainly have reason to come back to this in the speaker's chair. Madam President, I would like The honourable Member says that the Moderates invest more in this area than, for example, the Social Democrats do. For me, the budget is a whole, and if it is reduced by general tax cuts, the revenue of the state is reduced. If you make major changes in the health insurance system, for example, with a new pre-stock, it ultimately means that municipalities get higher costs, often via support for subsistence. It is therefore important that the whole is connected, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-129	Madam President, I would like I am not going to prolong this budget debate, because, as I said, we can take it later. Let me just say that our draft budget is equal to or even has larger surpluses overall, even if we have tax cuts. Remember one important thing: tax cuts do not always give way to the budget but can also increase revenue. So back to the LSS question. It is very important to help the group that has fallen between the chairs. That is what I am talking about, and that is why I am referring to examples of where legal quibbles have put individual people at risk. Our party agrees that we should try to remove them so that it becomes clear in the legislation who is entitled to this and who is allowed to seek help elsewhere. It is in everyone's interest, not least for the people who have come under pressure, to know that they have the right to this and to be part of Swedish society. That is precisely why we are in favour of the legislation being evaluated to see what legislative changes can be made so that it becomes clear.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-133	Madam President, I would like The cuts in assistance that took place during the last parliamentary term have had enormous consequences for many with assistance. Especially serious was the situation for children with a need for breathing assistance and probe feeding – a development that I and the Center Party have reacted strongly to. Madam President, I would like In 2016, many children and families lost the possibility of assistance when Försäkringskassan began to interpret court rulings as that respiratory assistance was not a need that would give the right to assistance and state assistance compensation. It also went so far that people who needed help to get nutrition via feeding were not given assistance either. Government reports show that people with extensive disabilities do not receive the support they need to cope with their everyday lives. Madam President, I would like I believe that this is nothing but unworthy of a welfare country like Sweden. Ever since then, and indeed longer than that, the debate on assistance has been going on. The user organisations have rightly made strong criticisms of the government and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. In the formation of the government and in the negotiation of the January Agreement, it was therefore obvious that the Center Party fought for the issues of the LSS in order to be able to work to ensure the right to assistance. Especially urgent is the very change of law that we are now debating. I am therefore pleased that we can finally take a first step towards re-breathing and probing assistance. This amendment is an important and necessary first step in restoring the intentions of the LSS, the law on support and service for certain disabled people. The proposal that breathing and probe feeding should be a basic need in LSS comes from an announcement to the Government that the Riksdag decided in December 2018. The fact that we have a broad agreement on this issue is important, above all, for those children who have previously lost their assistance but also for the long-term perspective of the whole issue of assistance. But please note: as I said, it is a first step towards all the measures that need to be taken in the future. Like many others, I would have liked the draft amendment to have come earlier and that the whole process had gone faster. However, when the first draft legislative amendment came, the part on probe feeding received strong criticism from the consultation bodies. Listening to the criticism and taking it to heart in order to bring about the best possible law and to bring about changes that mean real change for those concerned is incredibly important. However, as time has run out, it is now of the utmost importance that we get this amendment through as quickly as possible. Every day without a change of law is a lost day. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has had five points as an entry point in the negotiations with the government on breathing and gavage: This is precisely about all the elements has been a very important part to get involved and discuss in terms of both breathing and probe feeding. Probe mating doesn't mean just pressing a button, waiting for a while and then it's done. It takes more than that. It requires both preparation and afterwork. It's about mixing the rind, connecting all the hoses, pulling the rind up the syringe, disconnecting the hose, rinsing and washing the syringe, and in between making sure that the meal is a good time for the person to take it. All these elements that must be carried out in order to feed a person at all via a probe must be assistance-based, everything else is unreasonable. The proposal also provided for assistance measures within normal parental responsibility to be able to provide assistance compensation and personal assistance in terms of breathing and feeding. We have also outmanaged the interpretation of privacy and privacy, all to close any loopholes. As I said earlier, this change of law is the first step in the changes that we must make to ensure that personal assistance and assistance payments are of high quality and legal certainty. Now all the elements of breathing and probe feeding will be assistance-based. Children and parents who have lost their assistance will receive it back. With this, Madam President, I would like to call for the motion to be approved.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-146	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. Finally! Today we are debating and tomorrow the House will decide on personal assistance for breathing help. It's been a slightly crooked trip, but here we are. The bill proposes that breathing should constitute such a basic need that gives the right to personal assistance under the Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled People, LSS. In parallel with this, the government's draft budget, which we Liberals have been involved in negotiating, is the draft budget. It also includes full cost recovery for the promised changes concerning precisely the right to breathing and probe-feeding assistance. Madam President, I would like This is a small but important first step towards restoring the LSS. In addition, it is an important electoral promise that is now being fulfilled. This is good and important. It's a start, but it's far from everything. We have a long way to go for long-term sustainable and strong LSS legislation that applies to more people. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I can say this in the introduction: Yes, we are doing what we can in fast track. Yes, we are fulfilling what we promised in the elections and are committed to. Yes, we will push for everything we can for a large and strong LSS legislation that we can be proud of together. Madam President, I would like At the same time, I have full understanding and respect for the disappointment and criticism that exist and that I notice so well and feel every day. The situation is so stressed for so many people that the longing for and need for a rapid change and improvement boils over. I understand that. I know that there is a great deal of mistrust of government and authorities, and that is for the foreseeable reason. The current difference is that the Liberals are now following and influencing the process from the inside. I can assure you that the intentions with both the respiratory component, which we are debating at the moment, and the probe feeding part, where the proposal is out for consultation, are very frank. They shall be assistance-based without making it more difficult for anyone else. Something else is completely out of the question. Then we would never be on the train. One proof of this is that we are now debating only the amendment of the law on breathing aid and not the feeding of the probe. The bill that existed before the summer, which contained both parts, did not measure up. It would not have led to the desired effect, that more people would receive assistance. That's why the probe feed part comes later. It is out for consultation now, and the proposal will be discussed after Christmas in this House. With clearer and more concrete referrals we can get a better end product. It's important. The referral time is not a transport company that should only be reviewed. We need opinions and suggestions from different sides to make it a good end product. It is certainly not the intention to make it more difficult to obtain assistance, on the contrary. What is today will be much better. The aim of the proposals is to improve the possibilities for all those in need of help with breathing, gavage or other needs for assistance. It's not about getting worse for someone else. This is something that many people are now criticising of the proposal in order to lead to. But it is out of the question that we should go that way. Madam President, I would like The judgment of 2009, which many have spoken of, was a precedent. That's the problem. It already applies as a team. If you are now to enter exceptions into a law, which is precisely the case with the proposal for exploratory feeding that is out for consultation, what you make exceptions to law needs to be done. That is why practice needs to be codified. In order to be able to count the entire part of the probe flow, an exception to the judgment on the integrity of the unit is required. To make exceptions, it has to go into law. That does not mean a tightening up of the substance. It's also in the bill. That is why we have been careful in the process to say that we think it is good to refer the memos. We intend to listen very clearly to the referees. They are important for us to be able to move forward. Many of the referral bodies pointed out before the bill that we are discussing today, which came to be just breathing, that there would be no difference for those who, above all, need help with probe feeding, because it is only integrity-related elements that matter. We share that view. The proposal that is now on the table is intended to resolve that particular issue. There will be an exception that applies to the integrity of breathing and eventually for probe feeding. However, in order to make an exception, the general rule needs to be in law and not just in practice. Madam President, I would like Now the practice is not just that, as everyone who cares about assistance and is in need of assistance unfortunately knows too well. The 2009 judgment applies as heavily as the law already today. If you are to open a valve there must be something in the law to attach the valve to. Hence the suggestion to now include it in the law. Perhaps there are other legal solutions or better clarifications. We in the Liberals are more than happy to listen to it. That's exactly what the referral rounds are for. More than a handful of officials at the Government Office and Departments will be helped to develop a sustainable proposal. We will work together to solve what we are set to solve without causing trouble for anyone else. Madam President, I would like Finally, was it good or bad with a fast track for breathing and probe feeding? On this point, you can change your mind many times when you read various contributions to the debate. We took the view that it is better to move faster with what was politically and technically easier. It is just as this House itself has decided and as several of the previous speakers have been involved in proposing. But it is certainly not easy to, at least for some, improve somewhat quickly. A broader approach, which we also push for us to take, takes at least a few years from investigation to law. Of course we do too. I can guarantee that we Liberals will not give up. The LSS is to be restored.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-161	Madam President, I would like I know that the Liberals, like me and the Christian Democrats, are passionate about saving the assistance and the LSS. I am genuinely convinced of this. At the same time, I am concerned that, following cooperation with the S-MP government, the Liberals have presented legislative proposals that had serious shortcomings when they were presented. The government has been forced to back down several times, and legislative changes that are vital have been delayed. In the speech by the honourable Member, I found it positive that the honourable Member described the problem that has been raised and the criticism and concern that has come from the disability movement in order to make it more difficult for people other than those in need of breathing and feeding and, for that matter, that the existing case law should be permanent. I appreciate the honourable Member's explanation of how you think. At the same time, I wonder if the honourable Member could describe a little more clearly how the considerations have been thought out. Were there other considerations in the process of finding other technical possibilities in the law than to enter it in just 9a, which is the portal clause describing who is entitled to assistance, in order to find a path that is not so worrying for the disability movement?
i-LQdy5CcCbPnkxV35YZHuQG	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Pia Steensland! One thing about the work on the report that is on the table today and the memo that is on the table has been the speed. It has to do with the announcement that this House has made and on which Pia Steensland and the Christian Democrats have been driving. Breaking out parts and not being able to work with the whole at once means codifying the practice from which you want to make exceptions. In that work it is possible that there are things that need to be made even clearer. It is possible that it is not a perfect draft legislative text that is in hand right now, and that is why we have a consultation round where we will listen very carefully. We really need to redo and do the right thing for real. This should be sustainable for the future, and it should also be robust for other changes that may occur. Having said that, it is important to say that this is a first part, a first step, on the road to doing more around the concept of integrity, which is at the heart of the problem. The judgment from 2009 but also some other judgments after that – 2012, 2014 and so on – has filled up the problem and has led to the Moras that we have today, where eight to nine people in the case of new applications are refused their first application. This is a development that neither the Christian Democrats nor the V i is behind, so it is clear that change is needed here.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-169	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the description, honourable Member. I really appreciate a strong commitment to this issue and that you are a bit of a guardian in this matter. As the honourable Member says, it is incredibly important that the intention be restored. In that part we have to look at the whole of all basic needs so that all parts become a historical foundation. B ehover you go to the toilet should all the time you are there count, not just the time when you dry yourself in the butt. Unfortunately, that is what it looks like today. In the January agreement between the Liberals, the Center Party and the government parties, there is, in my opinion, not clearly stated that the basic intention should be restored. It does not clearly address all the basic needs and the importance of ensuring these. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member whether he feels that the January agreement is a little stifling in the work ahead.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-172	Madam President, I would like The work on the January agreement is not inhibiting in this way, but rather a lever to discuss further and more things. I had a debate in this House on Friday, and as I recall, Pia Steensland was there listening. The Minister then expressed a desire to talk and to negotiate on some of your things than what was originally agreed on. The January agreement is important in that it contains a lot of good liberal policies to implement, and we are working on that. But it is also important that we can go further, not least in paragraph 64, which deals with the LSS, and discuss, among other things, the whole of which Pia Steensland and others in this House have called for an address. And we do, believe me! At what pace and how this will happen, we will have to come back to, because it is always a conversation and discussion and several parties who will be involved. There is, however, an opening for discussion on the basis of the January agreement. In which way I do not know yet, because the little discussion you have just begun. On the way back, it is, after all, between 2 000 and 3 000 people, possibly, who, from 2014 onwards, have lost their state's personal assistance. It is these people who will get it back, and then we need to discuss the headship and the whole with the integrity-related needs. We also need to discuss and really bring about a whole and a n y, modern LSS legislation that stands ready for the reality that exists today, not the one that existed in 1993.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-175	Madam President, I would like I don't really get it, I have to say. D u and I have, of course, been in an up lake of debate with you, Bengt Eliasson, and I know that we share the basic view of the meaning of the judgment of 2009. The way I see it, it doesn't matter what the trouble is that you choose to enter it in the text of the law. The problem is that the proposal states that it wants to be included in the legislative text. My question to Bengt Eliasson will then be: Are you prepared from the Liberals to take this risk? What this would mean, if it were worded in the way that can be seen in the memo, is that in principle no one could get state aid, but it would be a municipalisation. It is a proposal on which I know our parties also agree. I hear what you are saying, that this is necessary to make the exceptions that are needed precisely because the problem is that people will not be given assistance for breathing and probe feeding unless they make this exception, that is, for all basic needs. My question is: dare you make this change and consolidate the practice of law?
i-71b8162822ff7c86-179	I would like to remind you once again that the whole debate always goes through the President, not directly between Members.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-180	Madam President, I would like I promise I'll do my best. Thank you, Maj Karlsson, for the questions, or the fears! That's what I was trying to get my whole main speech permeated with-- it's important that this is right. The intentions and purpose of our being in negotiations with the government at all over this, with the memorandum that is out and with the report that we are now debating, is precisely that these basic needs, which we debated so often in the election movement, should be eligible for personal assistance from the Social Insurance Agency. For them to do so, exceptions must be made, because we are now treating them only. I would very much like to discuss the whole thing. I try to do that, too, all the time, when I get at it. To do so may require two years of investigation and some or a few more years before there is legislation. This needs to be done much faster than that. It is also something that we have often promised. Then, Madam President, we really need to get legislation that is clear on this point. In order to achieve this, the consultation bodies must now be clear and concrete in their criticism of where the problem lies and how, according to them, we should do it instead so that we can get to it, Madam President, in the absolutely best way possible for the groups involved. Yes, I am prepared to listen and also, if necessary, to take certain risks.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-185	Madam President, I would like I think there is an incredibly important point here, and that is that no one must miss what is in the memo right now. We must not miss a textual procedure or something that must be done in order to accept an exception to what we really think is the basic problem. I agree that it is extremely important that we really understand what such a change could mean so that this does not just sort of rush past. I am not only concerned by the concerns of the disability movement; I am really concerned for the sake of legislation. We know that this is one of the basic problems behind the situation we have today. I don't really have much more to say. I think Mr Bengt has responded clearly, Madam President. However, I am still very concerned that this is what will be the entrance, when it is from the beginning what has been the basic problem.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-189	Madam President, I would like Maj Karlsson and I agree very much on these issues. History has also shown that it is in fact we who have been shoulder to shoulder on many occasions, in many debates and in many conversations. Madam President, I would like I will dare to repeat a short passage here in my final line: I know that there is great mistrust of government and authorities. It feels every day, and it's for the intended reason. The difference is that we liberals are now influencing from the inside. I can assure you from my side that the intentions of this are sincere, that breathing and probing will become assistance-building without making it more difficult for anyone else. If there is that risk, I am prepared to pull the handbrake – of course. Something else is completely out of the question.
i-71b8162822ff7c86-192	Madam President, I would like If you have children, you will remember that first time, the boundless love of a helpless life that you have been entrusted with – but also the wake nights, waking up every two or three hours for feeding and that panic you can wake up to, the fear of sudden infant death, before you feel the breath at your hand. For some families, this time does not pass. The fear that the child will stop breathing unless she is helped is not a nightmare but an ever-present reality. Maybe five hours of continuous sleep is just a fantasy. You might have to settle for two, sometimes in a whole night. Some things in life we choose. A lot we can earn. But there are things that only happen to us, challenges and injustices that only some people have to bear. Being born with a severe disability or having a child who cannot breathe alone is one. I am proud to be a citizen of a country where we carry each other when life is weakest, where we shrug together into world-class tax-funded care, where every child gets to play and learn in preschool and where we get care when age takes its toll. That is why, Madam President, when the application of legislation leaves some of the most vulnerable in the lurch – breathing has not been considered to be a fundamental need under the law that grants the right to personal assistance. We can do better. As a community, together, we can mobilize our resources and relieve the families that have the toughest, change some of those watchnets and make sure that also big sister and little brother get that time to show their drawings to Mom and Dad and be children with the same rights as all other children, those who do not have a sibling who requires constant supervision. Together we can make sure, with this decision, to give everyone help to breathe.
