i-PmxfswKbh34pzKGXh9rhsE	Madam President, I would like Today, we are examining the report on the activities of the Interparliamentary Union (IPU) and the work of the Swedish delegation in 2018. First of all, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Interparliamentary Union, the IPU, is the world's oldest multilateral organisation. It was founded in 1889 with the aim of working for peace and inter-ethnic cooperation. Sweden became a member in 1892. Today, the IPU has 178 member parliaments. The task of the organisation is precisely to promote personal contacts between Members of Parliament in all Member States and to promote the development of parliamentary institutions. Madam President, I would like This year, the Swedish Parliament celebrates 100 years of democracy. When we became a member of the IPU a little more than 125 years ago, it was we who needed support in developing our democracy. Today, we support others in the democratic work, not least through the Interparliamentary Union. The IPU also conducts extensive development assistance activities on issues such as representative democracy, human rights, gender equality and women's participation in politics. Sweden is here a major contributor through Sida's aid support. Together with a number of other donors, we support IPU's strategic goals. Since Sida's programming period has been shortened from four to three years without Sweden having reduced its aid amount, Sweden's share of IPU's budget has increased. The focus of Sweden's support over the next three years will be to strengthen parliaments, to promote and promote gender equality, to promote and protect human rights, to contribute to peace building, conflict prevention and human security, to contribute to young people's representation and influence in parliaments and to build parliamentary support for the global development goals with a particular focus on health and climate. We should be proud that Sweden, through its assistance, contributes to important development for a better world. Madam President, I would like Since the 1940s, the Swedish IPU delegation has been composed of a chairman from the government-supporting side and a vice-chairman from the opposition. However, this term of office is an exception. As a result of the lengthy formation of the government, the lot had to determine the composition of the bureau in both Parliament's delegations and several committees. That is why the IPU delegation now has a moderate chairman despite a Social Democratic-led government. In this context, it is important to emphasise that the Swedish IPU delegation is largely partyless. The five members of the delegation are appointed by the Speaker and represent primarily the Swedish Parliament. Party politics is left at home in Sweden, because in the international context it is much more that unites than separates the members from Sweden. Each year, the IPU organises two assemblies, bringing together parliamentarians from the 178 Member States. Last year's two assemblies, both held in Geneva, dealt with resolutions and various themes such as migration and refugee protection, women's participation in politics, disarmament and non-proliferation issues, and parliamentary leadership to promote peace and change in research, innovation and technology. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for giving me the confidence to be one of the five members of the IPU delegation. I also had this benefit in the last parliamentary term. Let me stress the importance of the delegation's interaction and work over time. The members of the delegation are highly interdependent. After the autumn elections, as the only remaining member of the delegation, I had to try to represent Sweden alone. It is not something I recommend anyone to try out, but it was actually possible to handle and parry four committees and at the same time represent Sweden in the General Assembly. However, this would have been impossible to implement without the support of the Riksdag's international office. I would therefore like to thank you very much for the work carried out there, and I look forward to continued good cooperation. In 2014, as a newly elected member of the delegation, I had the privilege of being introduced to IPU's activities by the then delegation members Krister Örnfjäder, Anti Avsan, Monica Green and Ulrika Karlsson. None of them are longer Members of Parliament, but let me conclude by thanking Krister, Anti, Monica and Ulrika for their fine work, not least in representing the Swedish Parliament within the framework of the work of the IPU.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-14	Madam President, I would like We are living in an increasingly changing time. In an increasingly unpredictable time, Sweden's future rests. This year Swedish democracy celebrates 100 years. It can be easily taken for granted or taken lightly. Not least, democracy is important to us, because our values and our society are based on everyone's equal rights, opportunities and responsibilities. For us, a solid foundation of human rights, democracy and multilateral cooperation are prerequisites for a fruitful and richer future. We know that this is necessary. Sweden is a small, highly export-dependent country far up north that builds economic conditions and prosperity on good relations and trade with others. We know the importance of cooperation. Madam President, I would like We have used the whole range of security policy instruments, such as diplomacy, international cooperation, conflict prevention, de mocracy development and confidence-building, as well as our work for peace and security as usual and with positive experience. Sweden is actively working globally to combat poverty, inequality and climate change. At the same time, the world is becoming more unpredictable. Progress is accelerating. World politics is changing rapidly, and more and more people are questioning multilaterism as a means. The threats to our security are widening, and new forms of cyber attacks show that the vulnerability of our connected society is increasing. More recently, the global security situation has deteriorated. Arms cramping on the Korean Peninsula and an increasingly escalating risk of nuclear war mean that the world must hold together. The situation in Syria is terrible, as is Zimbabwe, and we are receiving alarming reports from the humanitarian crises in Yemen, Myanmar and South Sudan. Terror attacks are unfortunately part of the global normal picture today – most recently in Sri Lanka. Over 65 million people have been forced to flee around the world, and the situation in the Middle East is still fragile. Madam President, I would like The conditions for Sweden to participate and work internationally are based on our own experience. It's not just decade long, it's a turn of the century. We know that trade plays a role in creating better relations and conditions for tomorrow's challenges. This also applies to the conditions for security and security in the revolutionary time we are in. Madam President, I would like Already 140 years ago, parliamentarians gathered for dialogue, for talks, for increased knowledge and understanding, to increase the conditions for a safer and more stable world. It was in 1889 the Interparliamentary Union was formed, and it celebrates 130 years. The Interparliamentary Union is an important partner organisation for Sweden in a global upheaval, just like the Nordic Council, the Council of Europe, the EU, the OSSE and the United Nations – to name a few. Sweden's conditions require more multilateralism, not less multilateralism. But they also require efficiency, more transparency and, above all, stronger collaboration with our neighbours, with which we basically share so much common ground and also threats and opportunities. Our Nordic friends are at the core, and they are also in the Interparliamentary Union. In short, the Interparliamentary Union can be said to be the parliamentary dimension of the United Nations, where close and concrete cooperation takes place. Just as my colleague Teres Lindberg well described the work of the Interparliamentary Union, it is a global organisation of the parliaments of independent states. The aim is to work towards peace and inter-people cooperation with the currently 178 parliaments. The forum we spoke to at the latest was 1 200 parliamentarians. It is clear that this collaboration plays a role in what tomorrow's global development looks like. Sweden has, as you know, high tailings internationally and is considered a humanitarian power. In order to continue developing democracies, it is clear that this part is extremely important, even around the work of being the humanitarian power that Sweden wants to be. We therefore believe from the Riksdag that it is gratifying that Sida has decided to double the efforts for democratic work around the world as of this year and for a number of years to come. As Teres Lindberg said, it was a prerequisite for Sweden's democratic development at one time that other countries were also there to help us. It is clear that we should contribute our efforts and knowledge to others. But it is also more important than ever, when Swedish taxpayers pay twice as much, that the work is done in a more efficient way, that it is open and transparent and that we continuously follow up the work. This is the foundation and one of the cornerstones of the Swedish Parliament's election of an interparliamentary delegation for the work. We in Sweden are against corruption and for more transparency. Madam President, I would like The further work of the Interparliamentary Union concerns democratic development, human rights and gender equality. The Swedish commitment, from the Riksdag, the Government and the authorities, is strong, but we can of course do more for greater security, peace and security. I support the proposal contained in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-29	Madam President, I would like IPU is an organisation with a proud tradition of working to strengthen human rights and peaceful relations between different countries. I am honored to be a small part of Sweden's delegation to the IPU. So far, as a newly elected member of the delegation, I have only had a superficial insight into the activities and work, but I still think I can make a few comments now. First of all, I would like to endorse what we have heard from colleagues from the Social Democrats and the Moderates say. It is gratifying to see that there is so much consensus within the Swedish IPU delegation when it comes to standing up for fundamental human rights. I have been proud to see my colleagues from both the Moderates and the Social Democrats fighting for human rights in the world within the framework of the IPU. At a time of strong political polarisation in Sweden, it can be beneficial for parts of the public to see how the work works within the IPU delegation. Sometimes it may sound like we would be apart from each other, have completely different world views, that some stand for evil and others stand for goodness. But with regard to fundamental human rights, there is a great deal of consensus between the parties in the Swedish Parliament, and that is something that I am pleased about. Although I think that Sweden's participation in IPU is important, and that IPU is an important organisation with a proud history, one must not be too uncritical about the organisation. It is clear that the IPU is in need of reforms, increased transparency and increased efficiency. I know that this view, at least in some respects, is also shared by my colleagues, and I think that together we can continue to work on this issue. With regard to the Swedish financial contribution to the IPU, which some colleagues have also touched on, it is in relation to our country's size and our voice in the IPU very large. Sweden now pays more than 10 per cent of the total IPU budget. I think it is worth asking whether this is reasonable. Is it at all good for the IPU that a country accounts for such a large part of the budget? I also think that we should strive to use together the influence that the contribution should give when the IPU is so dependent on Sweden. One of the issues that I know we are already working on, and where I think we need to put even more gunpowder down, is the totally unsustainable situation that currently exists within the IPU when it comes to discussing fundamental human rights for homosexuals. I hope and look forward to increasing the pressure on the organisation, especially because of the great importance that Sweden has for the organisation in this matter financially.
i-2pNraB2wiSHo3gUZXRxHKU	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate a report that brings together all the motion requests on police issues from the general period of exercise in autumn 2018. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 14. We do not believe that any announcements need to be made. Are we doing this because we are not interested in police matters? Definitely not! Nor is it because all the proposals are bad and things we want to work hard against. No, we are simply doing this to get these proposals to add something new or better to the work that is already going on. Over the last few years, we have vigorously reformed the police. We are making a historic effort and increasing the funding to the police by over 7 billion. At the same time, we have begun work to streamline the police's tasks, introduced new forms to monitor police performance in local work and doubled the number of police training. We have implemented some thirty penalties for, among other things, serious drug offences, serious weapons offences, violent crimes and organised crime, as well as proposed new legislation on blue light sabotage in order to provide police and other blue light personnel with better protection in criminal matters. All of this is work done under the Social Democratic-led government in recent years, and it makes a difference. Let's get on with the reform work. The Government Declaration presented a number of issues that we are already working on. Some issues are being investigated, and in our new middle cooperation between the Social Democrats, the Environment Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals, in the January agreement, we identify further areas, including the important objective of 10 000 more police workers by 2024 and that the attractiveness of the police profession should be strengthened by better conditions. All of this is because for us, Madam President, there is no doubt that crime is a threat to the whole of democratic society and must be combated by all means. The police must have a good ability to investigate crime and be where it is most needed. A strong society is a prerequisite for a safe Sweden. This calls for an uncompromising fight against the crimes and the causes of the crimes. We want an efficient and locally based police force that is given the right conditions to do its job. We cannot accept that people feel insecure in their residential area because of criminal gangs, that investigations are closed because of a lack of resources or that those living in rural areas are unsure whether the police are coming. It's for the police you turn to in the most vulnerable situations in your life. The efforts of the police are crucial to our security, and it is the police, with their powers, who are the ultimate guarantor of law and order being maintained in our society. This requires a locally-based police officer who has a close relationship with citizens, municipalities and companies. It is when the police know those who live and work in an area that they can do a really effective police work. Madam President, I would like Sweden is basically a safe country, but we have problems that we must face with vigour. That is why laws have been tightened up to combat terrorism, to crack organised crime and to bring men's violence against women to an end. The development of crime in Sweden is concerned. Organised crime has grown and got deeper into society. The particularly vulnerable areas identified by the police have increased over time. Shooting and open drug trafficking have been problems for a long time. In some residential areas, criminals have a strong impact on the local community. When criminals manage to scare residents into silence, police, school and social services find it difficult to do their job. As a result of the measures we have taken, we see improvements, for example in the case of shootings and the fact that more criminals are now in custody. But we must keep that trend in the long term. Uncertainty and vulnerability are greater in resource-weak areas but are not limited to them. Thefts, an increasing number of reported sex offences and drug abuse are examples of problems that exist throughout our country. The fight against crime must work in all parts of Sweden. We must fight crime and, at the same time, combat the causes of crime. The best law enforcement in the long term is to build a society where the social divides are small, where everyone has the right to work, where women and men have equal power and where children and young people have secure conditions for growing up. In this way, welfare policy is an important part of criminal policy. It gives a Sweden that stays together. Madam President, I would like Finally, I should like to comment briefly on the proposals for announcements on special units in the police force and to limit the number of approved ID documents. The Police Authority needs to strengthen and develop police operations. Our task in politics is to ensure that there are resources and create the conditions for training more police officers, not to be in detail and guide how the police best organize their work to achieve the best possible results. The whole process of reform of the police force to a police authority, which we in Parliament are in broad agreement, is also about trust. For us, it is an important starting point that the Police Authority has the task of planning and recruiting the right skills based on the needs of the operations. It is the Police Authority that has the best competence to determine the types of offences to be dealt with by different departments and to assess the need for different special units. Here we think that a majority in the committee is thinking wrong. We can only regret that. At the same time, I can see that, with regard to the issue of the announcement of fewer approved ID documents, it is opening doors. Only last year, the Swedish Parliament announced to the government that there is a need for an urgent tightening up of access to ID documents in order to reduce ID thefts and frauds. This is an issue that has now also been investigated, as we all know, because the investigation just a week ago presented its proposals. The question is now being prepared in the Government Office. To make another announcement in that situation is not effective and risks undermining the very idea of the Riksdag's announcements.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-54	Madam President, I would like We are now in our fifth year with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister in Sweden. Then you may wonder: How has it gone? The police have become fewer. There are hardly any police in the countryside today. The sexual crimes have tripled since 2014, and last year we had almost one shooting every day. At this point, our government is choosing to cut the police budget by a quarter of a billion dollars. How can the government be so irresponsible? I do not understand how citizens can be looked into. In a country where insecurity is becoming felt by everyone, it is provocative to cut the police's budget and at the same time increase resources for the Public Employment Service, to give an example. In particular, the increase in sexual crimes – and the fact that the investigations of sexual offences are given priority by a heavily burdened police officer who instead spends resources on murder investigations – calls for immediate action. It is therefore gratifying that the Riksdag is expected today to announce to the government the need to re-establish specialised units within the police to increase the prosecution of, for example, sexual and drug offences. We have seen that specialist skills can effectively help to combat and investigate these types of crime. Today's decision is also expected to involve another announcement to the government to limit the number of approved IDs, which we welcome, and hopefully also to extend the right to the violation compensation for police officers. We know that is an important issue. Madam President, I would like Even if the government is slow we continue to put pressure here in Parliament, because we know that security needs to be strengthened now. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 12.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-62	Madam President, I would like Swedish police today have major challenges compared to just a few years ago. The dismantled cohesion and the increasingly clear segregation lead to increased insecurity, which of course has direct consequences for the police. Sweden has many highly competent and hard-working police officers, but some problems and shortcomings are obvious. Today, the Police Authority has little difficulty in managing its management mission, but the greater the problem of managing the police mission. If we want the Police Authority to carry out a good and effective police activity, police competence needs to be a requirement for the people who will lead the agency. In recent years we have seen increased polarisation in society, and confidence in society in general and the police, especially in many areas of exclusion, is in decline. As these areas become more numerous, and overcrowding increases, it is easier for serious criminals to advance their positions. Every two days there are reports of gunfire resulting in gunfire, many times fatal, rape, robbery, even of children, and other serious crime. Many of these crimes come to the attention of health care and the rule of law, but beneath the surface is an ocean of protection, drug trafficking and social misery, which is the breeding ground for crime in the future. Violent violence, increasing rapes and offenders who cannot be prosecuted are urgent police issues that cannot be upheld. In order to overcome these challenges, we politicians need to agree across block borders on a long-term police policy. Police work is a unique work that is very different from almost all other work. There are unique demands, and the profession is surrounded by a unique responsibility and is associated with unique powers. This requires both legal knowledge and training in a variety of fields, practical skills and physical skills. Police work requires a mix of theoretical education and practical crafts. Both theoretical knowledge and, not least, experience are required to master and understand it fully. It could be compared to work in health care or school. In the core school business, trained qualified teachers train. Of course there are good uneducated teachers, but we still assume that the best thing is to have trained qualified teachers and that experience makes them better. Who would like to be operated on by an unauthorized doctor? Even if you've been through multiple childbirths, you can't start working as a midwife if you don't have an education. There are clear educational requirements as to what a nurse, a nurse, a nurse and a doctor may do. There should be no difference for the police. The core activity of police work is to prevent, intervene and investigate crimes. This work is best done and managed by trained and experienced police officers. It is therefore important to maintain professional professionalism for police officers, just as it is important to keep professional teachers and doctors. To become a police officer, there is a lowest foundation, and before a police officer is considered to be basic, a two - and - a - half - year education is required. Sweden has probably the world's best educated police, and we need these police officers who can take on the demanding and often dangerous tasks they are faced with. Knowledge and skills can never be compensated by a rapid increase in the number of civilian employees. It hires civilian police workers without having any minimum basic requirements and without requiring relevant police training other than a short introduction or a few weeks' course and expects them to replace real police officers. This is a very worrying and dangerous development. In the short term, this can lead to individual mistakes. In the longer term, it risks undermining confidence in the entire judiciary. Although many of these civil servants have other trainings and experiences, are nice and do a good job based on the conditions they have, this is a very worrying trend that runs counter to developments in most other professions, where one is expected to have a longer relevant education and as a police officer also a special ID. There is also a risk of having many civilians in the police. They are exposed to serious risks because they lack training, equipment and the ability to deal with dangerous and violent situations that may arise in carrying out police work. More and more of the power and decisions of the police have come to be governed by non-police, media and populist forces, short-term and usually not very well-founded political decisions and not least HR departments that have grown and gained more and more power. All organisations need outside influences, and it is also important for the Police Authority to recruit people outside its own authority for management and specialist functions. But the core business and the management of the police must be run by trained and experienced police officers. It is devastating for operations when more and more police work is carried out and more and more management decisions are made by people who do not have police training and relevant knowledge of police work. Police operations are unique and cannot be carried out in the same way as work at Försäkringskassan or any private company. That's why cops have to be led by real cops with a police degree. The police degree and experience of the activities and organisation of the Police Authority shall be basic requirements for executive appointments directly related to police activities. As today's society looks, it is more important than ever that the Police Authority recruits managers who have a degree from the Police College and experience in police work. I find it difficult to understand why, time after time, managers are recruited either externally or internally who do not have a police background. I am absolutely convinced that among Sweden's approximately 20 000 police officers there are plenty of good management topics. Leading and directing police work shall be reserved to those who have that training and experience. Having said that, there is a need for civil servants and others to handle tasks that are unnecessarily burdened by the police. The police have very many tasks that are not about fighting crime. A number of these should be avoided in order to be able to focus on law enforcement. Among other things, the police take care of 60,000 intoxicated people each year. They have committed no crime, but well-trained policemen drive them, lock them in a cell for recovery, and then keep an eye on them. A significant part of the business is devoted to taking care of drunks and people with mental health problems. If these people are not violent, this should be a task for health care or any other appropriate unit. Other examples are that the police take care of dogs and cats and transport deprived persons long distances across the country. When social services and others go home, there's only the police left. The police take care of society when many others are not present. The police are there all year round, around the clock doing a lot of things that are not visible because these data are not measured. If we want higher police presence and better law enforcement, we as politicians need to look at how we distribute resources in society and who is responsible for what tasks, and we need more managers and police employees with a police degree and experience in police work. The police are the guardians of security. They are the last outpost for those who need help the most. It is important that we see this. Swedish police are too important to turn into some kind of post in a budget. At all times and in all situations, we must stand up for the laws we decide on and for those we are set to defend. They should feel that we are backing and supporting and that we take their concerns seriously. The Swedish Democrats will not fold an inch in their support to the Swedish police. I request the approval of reservation 28.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-84	Madam President, I would like I'll start by reading a post on social media from the past weekend's Easter evening: Shortly after 11 o'clock today, on Easter Day, someone broke in and stole my brother's quadricycle with trailer. Probably met the helper just before I was on my way there. A dark Volvo with a four wheeler on the trailer drove past the neighbors a few kilometers away. The roadsticks got off. Several observations were made by people along the way. Registration number was recorded, it was reported to the police and we gave the information. When my brother calls the police tonight, they answer that they closed the case without action – totally unacceptable for a vehicle worth 100 000. This means a free path for those who want to be criminals in our communities. This is a terrible development, which unfortunately is very common in today's Sweden. Madam President, I would like Since the decision on the reorganisation of the police was taken in this House, we have followed the progress of the police from over 20 different authorities in the country to a coherent authority. In addition, I have followed it closely as a member of the National Transparency Council of the Political Authority. One can safely say that it has been a tough trip for the police, one of the country's largest public activities. Some things have improved, but some things remain to be done. One of the obvious shortcomings is that the number of police officers is and has been too small. Cops have left their jobs. They may not have always had the right conditions to do their job. It therefore feels good that the Center Party, together with other parties in the January agreement, has agreed on the issue of increasing the number of police employees by 10 000 by 2024. Attractiveness in the police profession should be strengthened by, for example, raising salaries and improving working conditions, so that experienced police officers can be detained or returned. I therefore choose not to endorse the Center Party's motion for a more effective police force, which is otherwise attractive. There we have looked at a method that has been worked on in, among others, New York, where systematic work with measurable goals has led to very good results. In order to do a good job, the police must also have access to modern equipment and equipment that is considered necessary and necessary. Therefore, the Center Party, together with the Alliance, proposed an equipment lift for the police force, which should, among other things, aim to ensure that all police officers in external service have modern protective equipment. This is incredibly important, especially today, because we are seeing attacks on blue-light personnel, which is totally unacceptable and an incredible situation. It was not thought that this could happen. The fact that we are also becoming more police officers should also improve the still inadequate accessibility. There are still long telephone queues and long processing times for weapons licences, for example, and not least emergency times need to be reduced. Madam President, I would like In some rural municipalities, emergency time may be up to an hour or more if the police come at all. Today it doesn't feel like we have a cop for the whole country. It is a situation in which rural areas often feel deprived of priority. Madam President, I would like In the case of certain crimes, one cannot wait for them to be solved when the new organization sits down or when we get more police in place. Some people have to be fixed, and now. It is important, among other things, to increase the prosecution of drug and sexual offences. In recent years, the number of sexual offences has increased, while the proportion of solved offences has decreased. The Center Party believes that special sex crime groups with specialist expertise must be able to operate in all regions throughout the country. This must not lead to resources being taken from other crimes and cases being piled up. One must not rule out the other. I assume that the government will implement as soon as possible what the House is likely to decide today, namely a committee initiative to re-establish certain special units within the Police Authority, so that more cases of trafficking and sexual offences, for example, can be cleared up. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to say that I support all the motions from the Center Party, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservation 17. For some time now we have a number of designated particularly vulnerable areas around Sweden. These are areas where gang crime and drugs are increasing and belief in community support is decreasing. It's really serious. But we should also remember that there are things worth displaying in these vulnerable areas too. Not least in Vivalla in Örebro, in my constituency, where both gazelle companies, football professionals and schlagerstars see the light of day. Unfortunately, however, this is not what we see in the headlines. In these areas, for example, the police work with what they call cooperation between authorities and do a very good job. The police must have high visibility and work crime prevention together with the municipalities, especially in these areas. Is this enough? Yes, it remains to be seen. We must follow it closely, not least for the sake of children and young people.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-98	Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants a present, locally established and knowledgeable police force that is present both in the countryside and in the suburbs. We want a police officer who knows his area, who has a decent salary and a good working environment and wants to make Sweden a safe country for everyone. The police have one of the finest missions you can have – to create a Sweden for everyone who is safe and secure and where we can trust each other. But because of increased gaps in society, Sweden is torn apart. The gap between the countryside and the city is too large, as is the gap between the single assistant nurse in Hageby and the bank manager in Djursholm. It does something to people as the gaps grow: You make up that problems that have always existed may be new. You look for someone else to blame. Nowadays, immigrants are taking the fall because Sweden has become a tax haven for rich people, where the working class barely gets the rent. And the working class is no longer named Johnny and Conny, but instead Ahmed and Mohammed, and they are identified as responsible for all the problems of society. But that's not true. We know that's left. But it has become too easy to point a finger at a part of the population as responsible for the whole of Sweden crime. It is especially a party that uses both the police and immigration to paint a Sweden that is scary and unsafe. Words are used as a sexual crime epidemic and seem to have completely missed the metoo. The threat to women is blamed on increased immigration, while on the Internet it is inciting women who do not share this view. In the statistics we can see that insecurity decreases over time. The increase in sex crime reports is due to the fact that women finally dare to report all men who have committed crime. It is thanks to all the feminists who have pushed on during the metoo that the reports are increasing. Any cop understands that. Madam President, I would like I am not allowed to take any line on any speaker in this debate, because that is what our rules look like in this House. But if I could do that, I'd take a line, especially on a party. Madam President, I would like There is a need for more police officers, and it is a problem that many of those applying for police training then do not show up and start training. It is a problem that police education does not take place at university level with a vocational degree. It is a problem that police salaries are so low and that so many right-wing parties do not understand basic wage audit negotiations. It is also a problem that the same parties now want to get into the police organisation, which is still an open wound. You want to get in there with political pointers and gooing around. But there is also an incredible amount of good that is done. When I ride a radio car with the police in the east, I am deeply impressed by every policeman I meet – from the police who sit with the woman who has been raped to the civilian police officer who investigates child pornography crimes. I have often raised issues in this House about the police's working environment, equipment and IT skills and about the anchoring of vulnerable areas and everything that needs to be improved. The police are a huge authority, which is now starting to land after a very large reorganization. But then it is important that political parties put away their quick and stylish lines in this speaker's chair and instead look at the police's larger mission: to create a safer Sweden for everyone. But it will be very difficult to do if the economic gaps do not narrow. I'm in favour of reservation 24.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-108	Madam President, I would like We are debating police issues in this House today, and the Police Authority is not just any police authority. The policemen who go to work every day, every night and every night form the basis of our security and security, and for that they deserve a great deal of thanks. But they're too few. Sweden has a low police density, and we have agreed in this House that we must invest in police forces. We need more cops. We need to get more cops out on the outside. We need more investigators. It is therefore remarkable that the January parties in their first budget product are making a reduction of SEK 232 million at the Police Authority. The Head of the National Police notes that there are consequences. It is money that is already included in this year's budget. They were meant to be used to continue developing police operations. In today's debate, I would like to clarify what impact assessments have been made by the government parties and the support parties the Center Party and the Liberals when they decided to withdraw a quarter of a billion money from the police funds, while at the same time the police will be expanded with 10 000 more police workers just in the coming years. Perhaps the answer will be: Yes, we should put the transports on the Prison Service instead of the Police Authority. That's correct. That decision was taken two years ago. But the idea was not that we should remove the only police car in the hinterland of Norrland, which today sometimes takes long journeys. The idea was not to pull that police car away and move the money for that police car to the Correctional Department's grant. The point of moving over the transports was to streamline the police's duties and make sure that the police car does not have to take long journeys but can remain. And more are needed to increase security throughout the country. The 232 million therefore need to remain with the police at the same time as the Prison Service receives an increase in funding. I'd like to hear from you today. What impact assessments have the January parties done? Apparently, this reduction has consequences, according to the National Police Commissioner. If you are going to reach 10,000 more police officers, you cannot withdraw funds. You have to invest more in the police. We also need to turn all the stones around – to attract back police officers who have left, to have targeted pay for police officers in their core business and to be able to reinstate pensioners in order not to lose the experience and skills of many police officers who today are forced to quit because they fall for the age line. We also believe that there is a need to review the training courses in order to get more people into police service more quickly. In this report, Madam President, which deals with police matters, there are three announcements supported by the Christian Democrats. These are urgent measures to limit the number of approved IDs. It is a question of setting up certain special units within the Police Authority, and it is a question of extending the right to compensation for violations of the law to police officers. I will say a few words about the announcement that is proposed to set up special units. In connection with the conversion of the police into an authority four years ago, certain specialised units that existed previously were decommissioned. It is clear that the objectives of the reorganisation of, among other things, better investigation results and higher quality of police work have so far not really been achieved. In order to better combat, for example, drug and sex offences, some of the police's special units should therefore be reinstated. Having specialist skills is in many cases an effective and necessary means of combating and investigating crime. As far as sexual offences are concerned, there have been reports in recent years of the removal of sexual abuse reports, as a heavily charged police officer places resources on murder investigations. Rape reports and investigations have been piled up. Specific sex crime groups should therefore be introduced in all police regions to ensure a high level of competence in this type of crime and to prevent high levels of reports of sexual abuse. It is positive that a majority in the Swedish Parliament is behind this ambition. The Christian Democrats, as I mentioned earlier, have put forward a proposal to enable the reinstatement of retired police officers to a greater extent. We have chosen to call it the GW model, because Leif GW Persson came up with a similar idea a few years ago. Recently, in Stockholm, a pilot project has been launched with ten retired police officers, which has already meant a lot. This experienced workforce and skills need to be better exploited. It could also lead to better investigations and to the fact that investigations do not have to be piled up. We would then also have a better victim perspective on these issues, which are so urgent. I would like to say a few words about the announcement of an extended right to compensation for violations of police officers. Violation payments are paid to persons who have been subjected to crimes that have seriously violated his or her person, freedom, peace or honour. Policemen are considered to withstand attacks better than others. But the demanding job the police have does not mean that the police should tolerate anything. No one shall have to endure violence, threats or violations in their professional activities. The rules on damages in the form of infringement compensation therefore need to be amended. There is a majority in the Committee on Justice behind this. I hope it will also be in the vote this afternoon. This is urgent. Despite the fact that the government has now finally put forward proposals to increase the penalties for crimes such as blue light abotage and violence against blue light personnel, this aspect has been missed: that police officers should not have to tolerate anything. They need an increased and extended right to compensation for violations. There are also other elements to the tightening of penalties for blue-light sabotage that the government has missed, in addition to the long-hauling of the issue. However, Madam President, I believe that we will have reason to come back to this debate as well as the work of the Committee on Justice in the future. I support not only our announcements, but also the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in the report. However, in order to save time at voting time, I only ask for reservation 12 on a locally-based police officer. It is about increasing the number of police officers primarily in local police areas in order to get more visible and present police officers across the country.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-122	Madam President, I would like The night against Easter Day two young men were murdered in Helsingborg. Both were shot dead. The news of two new victims in the youth-driven criminal world is more old than new. For several years we have been marinated in similar events. I'm not going to feed on numbers of murders in the criminal environment in recent years. That won't be necessary. We know how it is. In a short time, deadly violence has exploded out in some of the suburbs around several of our cities. We know why: an immigration policy that has gone completely out of control. There is no reason to dwell on these basic facts yet another lap. What is needed is that Sweden is trying to gather itself seriously around the social problems that gradually restructure society in a way that very few people want. Politics needs to take the problems more seriously and more seriously. Broadly across party and expert boundaries, there is a need for a rapprochement that is countering the kind of growing social indifference that is increasingly spreading in society. Social policy shines with its total absence, this in a country that has previously been so strongly characterized by social policy foundations, such as Rita Liljeström's classic Growing-up conditions and Our children, other people's children. I am almost tempted to say that Sweden is in great need of a social policy revival. At least something like that could break the pattern. Today we are stuck in a downward spiral where there is an unwillingness on the part of the policy to tackle the problems that contribute to the growth of social indifference openly and without any frills and without excessive glances at opinion figures. The police and the penitentiary are struggling with their scarce resources and insufficient reach. There are many individuals and associations of various kinds who are struggling to turn the lives of individual young people around before it is too late. There are many individual teachers and principals who are struggling to bring order, structure and knowledge growth into vulnerable and difficult environments. There are social workers who are struggling to provide support and support for individuals and families in difficult situations. All these efforts of all these people need to be seen, understood and put into an understandable social context. Today, instead, we are stuck in anxious corridors of opinion where those who lift up immigration problems are seen as semi-racists and stealth-SDs while those who lift up how well things go are seen as reality-denial politicians. I see before me some form of collecting Commission that can bring reasonable coherence to the three central issues of life and politics: where do we come from? Where are we now? Where are we going? Today's situation where Sweden has quickly turned into one of the world's most deadly trigger-happy countries becomes completely impossible to understand if we are not allowed to see how the problems have arisen. At the same time, the problems will be completely impossible to solve if we get caught up in swordfights about the ethnicity and backgrounds of the murderers and the murdered. The problems are Swedish, point. The murders are happening here. The children's upbringing takes place here. The responsibility is here and nowhere else. Responsibility is personal, political and social. Politics has for far too long abdicated itself from the social policy barricades. While Sweden's social problems have deteriorated dramatically, Swedish government policy has become increasingly introverted and socially absent. It is a difficult situation with many locked positions, and that is why I almost want to use the word revival. We need to realise that our society has major problems and that there is an opportunity to tackle the problems in a way that brings the citizens together more than it polarises. Journalists often quote us, but what I have now said is taken from Widar Andersson's blog. He is political editor-in-chief in Norrköping and puts his finger on something extremely important: We have a huge integration debt. Today, no one denies that we have enormous problems to deal with. Parallel societies have emerged because politics has allowed them to emerge. It's definitely not a system collapse. Sweden is a fantastic country in many different ways, but we still have to admit that too many individuals have collapsed under the system. This is something for which we must take responsibility together. As a liberal, it is self-evident to always take the fight when someone restricts someone else's freedom or commits crime, whether this is due to xenophobia, crime or radicalisation and whether it is done in the home or on the street. The report consists of a confetti of political proposals – high and low, large and small. One area of development is how politics can streamline the police's tasks. I can understand why we do not manage to face the major societal problems when the issue is not yet resolved whether it is reasonable for the police to issue a dance permit or not in view of the high workload they have. The issue of dance status was raised already in 2015 by my predecessor Mathias Sundin. In 2016 came the first announcement to abolish the requirement for a dance permit, an investigation was set up and today, 2019, it can be read that the issue is still being prepared by the Government Office. We're talking about rules for where to dance. In my world, this is incomprehensible. I'm in favour of more free dance and the police having to deal with the serious crime. When the government does not even manage to solve this, I can understand why it will be difficult to deal with the increased gang crime, shootings, murder of women in close relationships, honour killings, child marriages, rapes and radicalisation of terrorists. Is it the case that when we get to the helm, we politicians are afraid to make clear descriptions of problems because we believe that we should at the same time find the simple solutions? Instead, we get stuck in what we can handle. Why has politics ducked for the most alarming problems? I mean, whatever party affiliation. But ducking for serious social problems is impossible in the long term. It's just as impossible as hiding a pregnancy-- it's possible for a while, but eventually the reality becomes obvious. In Parliament, we are protected by guards, security controls and clear measures in the event of the slightest threat for us to have access to our freedom. For all the vulnerable I have met over the years, the reality is the complete opposite. It is not the police who are responsible for freedom, but rather the close relatives, moral police officers and criminals who put the individual in complete freedom. Feeling and experiencing security is a fundamental human right and one of the most important core tasks of the state in a democracy. We can do better. There's gotta be an effort on the police. Increased wages are an important measure that is now being taken. The creation of special units to increase the conditions for investigating, for example, drug and sex offences is another. The police shall prevent, prevent and detect criminal activities and other disturbances of public order or security. It is clear, but what is required for police officers to be given the right conditions to succeed in this? I've come close to the police's work, and I know it's not the will that's missing. They work; they want to. However, there is a lack of a police agency organisation and work structure that has sufficient resources for citizen-related activities. The police should not be pushed away into a bureaucratic grey-toned fortress, but have departments where people are, in our residential areas. This allows prevention to take place in close proximity and in trust in the area where crime is to be prevented. I'm glad we've decided to have district police. I've worked with them before and been in a million-dollar program area, and they perform an incredibly important function. Today, however, when prevention is applied to those involved in intervention, it is as if crime prevention is the investigation of crimes already committed. I believe that investing in the police is a must if we are ever to raise the status of the profession and get the 10 000 police officers that we have decided on to 2024. We follow up on all our reservations and announcements, but we call for the approval of reservation 68.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-142	Madam President, I would like The police are one of the most important authorities we have. They're on a difficult mission. The police are facing violent people. They meet pressured people. They meet desperate people. The police also face victims. And the police meet relatives. When we strengthen the police, we strengthen the whole community. The police have undergone a long and difficult organisational change – a reorganisation – that has been discussed. All parties were in on it from the beginning, and it was probably absolutely necessary. But it's been hard years. Perhaps the turnaround has come so that the police can get out of the reorganization stronger. In recent years, the police have received massive additional resources and been strengthened. It will have to continue. The January agreement provides for a target of 10,000 more employees in the Police Authority by 2024. It's an important goal, but it's not easy. However, it is important, but why? Well, if there are more police employees, it means a higher capacity. The police need to clear up more crimes. Madam President, I would like It is important to understand that the conditions are different in different parts of Sweden, also when we discuss how the police can work better. Pure data is extremely important, and we have had a discussion about transport with the Prison Service and the police as to who should handle what. We have also made a transfer of money in our amending budget. But we must also remember that the conditions are different. Correctional services are far from being available in all parts of the country. And, of course, where they do not exist, they cannot carry out transport either. Similarly, it is when discussing whether others should be caring for unwieldy people. We also know that there are not healthcare professionals all over Sweden, but that there is sometimes a certain distance to that. Madam President, I would like Last autumn the Head of the National Police sent a memo, including to us in the Committee on Justice, with requests for various political measures. It was primarily directed not to the police but to other authorities to make changes. What was very clear from the chief police officer was the preventive work. It doesn't matter if you bring in one, two or three from the criminal gangs if it's 10 or 15 and knock on the door to get into the gangs. What was at the heart of the message was that recruitment needs to be interrupted. That is very easy to agree with. We know that when young guys on glide, who for various reasons do not like school, come into contact with older people in criminal gangs and start making money there, it is very easy that these young guys remain in these gangs as they get older and continue on the criminal path. The longer they have been there, the harder it is then to break this development to have a normal honest life with a regular job and support themselves. Madam President, I would like Politics is about wanting, choosing and prioritising. But politics is also about governance. It's an art. It is not only about the decisions to be taken but also about how they are to be taken and by whom. In this report, there is a clear example where a majority of committees, and possibly also a majority in this House, want to announce the way in which the police are to be organised. That's not a good way to control things. With regard to the other announcements, work is under way, and announcements would not have to be made. I think the parties here are aware of this, but they still choose to ignore it. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to agree with the previous speaker's ambition to safeguard the freedom to dance and that it would be a very simple and good way to streamline the police's tasks to remove this requirement for them to give permission for it. I'm in favour of reservation 14.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-153	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 21, in paragraph 28, from the S, V and MP to set up a special unit within the Prison Service for young people who have committed serious crimes. At the same time, I would like to call for the rejection of all other motions for motion. As a new member of the Riksdag and of the Committee on Justice, I have recently had the privilege of making a number of visits to, among other things, the Prison Service and of participating in activities and meeting people who have in various ways touched me deeply and given me various pictures of a work that is of great importance for creating a secure society but also a functioning judicial system. It is people who in different ways are dedicated to making a difference, employees of the Prison Service who daily and in real life meet the inmates who are in our prisons and who meet the human being behind the criminal act. I met Gunnar who works at the women's institution Sagsjön outside Gothenburg. He described his work as being a dream catcher. Outside the prison of Lake Sagsjön there was a long time ago a place where travelers stopped on their way – a rest stop to rest but also to take the direction of the continued journey. It is a picture that can also describe today's activities at Lake Sagsjön. Gunnar described his task as reaching the people, getting them to reflect on their lives and also being able to support them in formulating realistic dreams so as not to relapse into new crime and to take the direction of their further journey. I visited Iceland and met representatives of the municipality in Reykjavik. They described how, together with parents, police and civil society, they work around what is called the Reykjavik model, a joint effort to provide young people with good growing-up conditions, better school results and meaningful leisure time and to prevent crime and drug use. The results show so far that prevention not only creates a safer society, improved school outcomes, reduced unemployment and reduced crime, but also actually saves money. Investing in people at the beginning of life is one of the best investments we can make to prevent and prevent crime. Crime is born of inequality, insecurity and abuse. It's an explanation, but it's never a defense. We always bear our own responsibility for our actions. To prevent and prevent this kind of crime, we need a strong society with a general well-being that we contribute to together according to our abilities and get access to as needed. In more unequal societies, life is shorter, social mobility is smaller, physical and mental health is worse, social inequalities are greater and crime and violence are more widespread. The economic and social gaps between people and groups in Sweden have been increasing for a long time. Reducing them takes time. It takes patience, persevering work, time, and ultimately a will. Crime cannot be explained solely by inequality, divisions or the subordination of the social classes. The class issue and inequality have an impact on who or who ends up in crime, but crime is also one of the privileged members of society. It damages society, security and trust, and it must be fought vigorously. To reduce crime, it's about investing in welfare. But that's not enough. There is also a need for a strong judicial system that prevents, prevents, takes care of and prosecutes, in which those convicted receive severe penalties and help to prevent the recurrence of new crime. This is why the government has prioritised efforts on general welfare – a historic effort on the police, on increased penalties for weapons crimes, on the fight against terrorism, extremism and organised crime, on crimes of honour and on men's violence against women, to name a few very clear examples. Therefore, the funding for the Prison Service is now increased by SEK 335 million in the spring change budget. Punishment and police efforts are now producing results, and this is evident in the prison services. The situation in prisons and prisons is strained. The Authority has presented a plan for investments, and a lot is under way. At the same time, there are long lead times before new places are ready. The need is great, and therefore increased resources are necessary to maintain quality and safety. The transport activity, which gives the Prison Service an increased responsibility for carrying out the transport of prisoners and which aims to streamline the police's tasks and activities, has led to increased costs. This needs to be regulated in order to manage the economy. The authorities also have the task of jointly developing a plan for the distribution of responsibility for transport. In addition to providing resources to the Prison Service, it remains urgent to make strong efforts to use the resources you have in the best way, reduce unnecessary bureaucracy and have a strong focus on developing your operations. An urgent task, as I see it, is to seize and develop the potential of outpatient care. Another is to improve the transition between prison and freedom through various lock-out measures. There is no alexander hem capable of preventing, preventing and combating crime. Instead, it is about cooperation and cooperation. This is why the prison service's experiments with so-called lock-in programmes are urgent. The programme means that the inmate receives coordinated support from the prison services and local community actors. Experimental activities are ongoing in three localities in the country and will be evaluated after completion of the first part by mid-2020. If anyone who has seriously decided to leave the crime behind is going to be able to do it, the whole of society needs to make sure that it can be done. Madam President, I would like The staff is the great resource in prison care. The new and extended training for penitentiaries that started at the turn of the year is necessary to meet the needs of the business and to increase professionalism. Pension departures and changes in activities require more people to choose a profession as a correctional officer, but also other occupational groups. Being an attractive employer capable not only of recruiting but also of developing and retaining staff is therefore an increasingly important prerequisite for high-quality activities. With regard to the recruitment of staff, Madam President, I would also like to point out the need to recruit more people from foreign backgrounds. It is a question of increasing diversity. Let me also say that in order to combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression, SEK 130 million is added to the spring change budget. They go to support women's and girls' shelters and improve the conditions and support for those affected, as well as to work preventively. Madam President, I would like I want to say something about reservation 21. In my opinion, there are a number of reasons against this being a good proposal. First of all, the task of the Prison Service is to design an execution based on an individual design and a clear content that acts as a recurrence prevention and facilitates the individual's adaptation in society. Rather, creating a special unit for these convicted persons can have the opposite effect because their individual needs vary greatly. Secondly, the young people convicted are based in one of our municipalities, and the municipalities have the overall responsibility to plan and implement the implementation together with the National Board of Institutional Affairs. Therefore, regardless of whether Sis or the Prison Service is responsible for enforcement, the municipality has a great responsibility in terms of lock-out and continued life outside the prison. As I see it, there may therefore be more reason to review Sis's mission and responsibility, and the government has taken an initiative on this issue. Thirdly and lastly, I believe that the proposal for a special unit for young people would mean too much detailed management of an activity. I think we should leave that to the authority itself. Finally, for those parties that really want to tackle the societal challenges of criminal policy, it is about being able to have two thoughts and perspectives in mind at the same time. For we need to have both – both a strong welfare and greater equality as well as a strong judiciary – to combat crime.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-178	Madam President, I would like The work of the Correctional Service actually has two important functions. One part is about the sentenced person serving his sentence. The second part is that those who have been convicted of crime should receive support to return to a life outside crime and to a new path. Strengthening drop-outs, preventing the emergence of new debts and increasing interaction with public authorities and civil society is central to the return of fewer to a criminal lifestyle. It is therefore gratifying that the Riksdag is expected today to announce to the Government the need to strengthen these activities. This also applies to the need for a national exit programme for gang criminals. There are good activities within the framework of various NGOs, but the conditions for this are very different in different parts of the country. That is why we believe that it is essential for a functioning national activity to be put in place. As the chairman of a municipality with several socially and particularly vulnerable areas, I have been very close to the frustration of the social services in terms of both the lack of resources and, perhaps above all, the tools for working with the group of young criminals. Nor does the State Department Board – Sis, as the previous speaker pointed out – have either the capacity for or the ability to demonstrate research, particularly good results in terms of supporting this group and preventing people from returning to a criminal lifestyle. I am therefore very pleased that the Riksdag is expected today to announce to the government the need to set up a special unit within the Prison Service that will be responsible for working specifically with this group of young, gross criminals. We believe that the Prison Service has a better ability, competence and the ability to combat relapses in crime through sanctions and treatment measures. In the increased funding for the Prison Service included in the M-KD budget voted by this Assembly just before Christmas, resources are earmarked for that purpose. I would like to highlight the need for increased international cooperation in order to enable foreign citizens to serve their sentences in their home country. A few weeks ago I had the opportunity to visit the institution Kumla together with some colleagues. Of the inmates there, 75 per cent are currently Swedish citizens or have a permanent residence permit; 25 per cent are or do not. 20 percent of inmates will be expelled after serving prison sentences – 20 percent! It is one in five, and this at the same time as the prison service is witnessing overcrowded prisons and detention centres and, at the same time, we should give sentenced people the opportunity to re-integrate into the country where they are to be present after their release. We therefore welcome today's announcement here too. I can agree with what the previous speaker said about the need for increased resources in the penal services. We already committed this in the ordinary budget last autumn, and we are expected to do so now in our amending budget. However, unlike the government, we do not take this money from the police, because the police still need increased resources. This is the wrong way to go. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, we support all our reservations, but for time-winning I only ask for reservation 4 to shorten the time between judgment and enforcement.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-185	Madam President, I would like We are today debating the criminal policy issues contained in the motion report on Prison and Home Affairs. Correctional services have been a neglected area for many years. I spent the morning a little bit of time looking at how we have had our allocations over the years. Now we can see that more parties are beginning to talk about the need to start investing in the whole chain of justice, where the Prison Service can be included. Several parties, in addition to the Swedish Democrats, have invested more money in the police, although the Swedish Democrats were relatively alone during the previous term in making that particular advance for the Swedish police. But what separated the Swedish Democrats from the other parties was that the Swedish Democrats also invested more money in the other authorities within our area of responsibility, where the Prison Service is included. There is a logical explanation for this, and that is that the whole chain of justice is connected. If we get more cops out on the street arresting and prosecuting people, more people will be in our prisons. This brings me up to today's date. All parties in here have agreed that we need to invest more money in Swedish police, but only a year ago it was only the Swedish Democrats who also invested more money in Swedish prison services. Now we have almost an overcrowding in our institutions – the occupancy rate is up to 98 percent, which is completely unreasonable. It creates unreasonable working conditions for those working in prison, and it is also unreasonable on the basis of the conditions that we are expected to give those in our prisons to be reintegrated into better citizens. Even for 2019, for example, the Center Party lacks more money for the Prison Service, even though they invest more money in the Police Authority. There is absolutely a lesson to learn for several parties in this assembly when it comes to seeing the whole picture in the legal chain – you can't just spend more money on Swedish police and then hope that everything will work out in the end. It turns out once again that the Red-Green Government has failed greatly to see the whole chain of justice as we now see that, under pressure from the opposition, some thirty penalties have been imposed and have also agreed to invest in more police officers. Now we are faced with a situation where we have almost overcrowded prisons. As a result of this development, the Swedish Democrats have presented a proposal to rent prison places in other countries. This is a proposal that is not very controversial; several other countries in Europe have already tried this solution. It has certainly proved to be quite expensive, but if we put it in relation to the situation we are expected to face – where we start discussing, for example, whether people who commit serious crimes at all should be in prison, precisely because we have full prisons – I think a solution to renting places in other EU countries is a good option. For this we have presented a rather generous effort. We are also facing another problem. Annually, we bring about 3 000 foreign citizens into our institutions. It is about a third of them who enter each year. Of the 3 000 people who are required, only about 50 are allowed to serve their sentences in their respective countries. There are therefore 50 out of the 3 000 people who are enrolled to serve their sentences in their own countries of origin. Here, together with the opposition, we have an announcement to the government in which we believe that we, from the Swedish side, must be better at ensuring that other countries take responsibility for their own citizens and enforce the penalties that we have imposed here in Sweden. There is a developed system within Europe – which we adopted here in 2015 in Parliament in good agreement – on the recognition and enforcement of prison sentences. However, it has turned out that we have even had fewer executed sentences served in each country after 2015. So it's sunk. The government believes that this is an unnecessary announcement. I might ask myself: in what way is it an unnecessary announcement when developments are going in the wrong direction? Here the Riksdag must put its foot down and indicate that we are not satisfied with this. Foreign citizens who belong to another EU country and who commit crimes in Sweden must, according to the usual rules, serve the sentences in their own home countries. This can also be part of the solution to the problem of overcrowded prisons in Sweden. We must take this issue seriously and ensure that EU countries receive their own citizens and ensure that they are allowed to serve the sentences in their own home countries. As the previous speaker said, this also applies from a rehabilitation perspective. If you do your sentence in the country in which you are a citizen and to which you would be expelled after serving a sentence, you have better rehabilitation conditions. If, for various reasons, it is not possible to enforce a penalty in a country, for example for reasons relating to human rights or because prisons are of poor standard, it is of course better to procure contracts with the country in question or with a neighbouring country, so that the person may serve the sentence in that country. We have one of Europe's highest costs – if not the highest – per day and admitted to Swedish prisons. There is no point in foreigners who come to Sweden and who commit crimes in Sweden being allowed to sit in Swedish institutions at sky-high prices when they have no way back into Swedish society and when there is no point in the rehabilitation offers available in Swedish institutions. These people are to be punished in their respective countries. For this, the Swedish Democrats have a number of reservations. We are in favour of all the reservations in this committee report, but we have a reservation on prisons in other countries – reservation 20 on renting prisons in other countries – to which I request approval.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-200	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Center Party supports all our reservations, but in order to save time we choose to apply only for reservation 2. Only last Sunday, on Easter Day, I woke up to the terrible news that two more young men were shot to death in the city I love, Helsingborg. It is, of course, extremely tragic and totally unacceptable, but unfortunately no longer very surprising. It is a situation that exists not only in Helsingborg but in many places throughout the country. The debate on security and security issues has rightly taken a large place in society in recent years. The focus of the debate is very many times on the police. It's perfectly understandable, but it's not enough. We need to seriously discuss how we can strengthen the whole judicial system and the whole legal chain in order to reduce both actual insecurity and perceived insecurity. In recent weeks, I have visited the Prison Service's operations around the country. It is largely a very good business with fantastically committed employees. But it is quite clear that the Prison Service is in great need of both increased financial resources and more tools in the toolbox. It is a logical development that the social development that we unfortunately see, together with a more efficient police organisation and historically large investments in more police officers, will place increased demands on the rest of the legal chain, including the Prison Service. It is also quite clear that the increased need for investment in the activities of the Prison Service does not exist in ten years' time, but here and now. A few weeks ago I had the opportunity to visit the detention centre in Helsingborg. If I understood it correctly, it was the second time in 30 years that you froze in there. On the same day they also froze in custody in Malmö and Trelleborg. Then it becomes very obvious that the Prison Service here and now has a capacity shortage that we need to overcome. It is therefore a good thing that in our amending budget we fully fund the Prison Service for the mission related to transport operations and that we provide additional resources. Madam President, I would like Of course, one of the activities of the Prison Service is to punish criminals, but it is about so much more. Prison services play an extremely important role in preventing relapses in crime. This applies to both younger and older criminals. It is important that there is strong support from society for those who want to leave the criminal life. Often, those who have been active for a long time in serious crime are at considerable risk as defectors. It is not simply, even if the will is there. The so-called drop-out activities of the prison service, which are aimed at those who want to leave the criminal lifestyle, are therefore of great importance. Several cities around Sweden with vulnerable areas and criminal environments currently lack such activities. We want to see increased work on such activities on the part of the Prison Service and also want to see a comprehensive review of all drop-outs and a thorough review of methods and results. However, it is not just about defection. We need to be even better at strengthening the opportunities of previous convictions in the labour market, preventing debts from arising for the inmates during the prison period and strengthening cooperation between the relevant authorities in order to achieve the best possible lockdown. These are issues that we need to look seriously at. For some of the young people who are out of the rules of society, the efforts of social services are not enough. As far as this group is concerned, we therefore believe that there should be a review of whether the state should take over responsibility. Roughly criminal young people could be treated more effectively with the rehabilitation measures used for criminals in general, not primarily to punish but to use measures that are better able to succeed than traditional social services. Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that prison services need to be a priority in this parliamentary term. I do not think that we should close the door to innovation but, on the contrary, open the door to new political proposals in the criminal services. Only in November, the Director-General of the Correctional Service himself presented a couple of exciting proposals with increased tools, not least for the care of prisoners. It is a question of ending the generalisation of the sentences given in the framework of the care of the child, and of having an increased individualisation so that the work of the care of the child can suit more criminals. Madam President, I would like I was actually planning on staying there. But it is quite clear that in this debate there are quite a lot of expressions like who invests in what, who does not invest in what and who does not think what. I can only say coldly that in the budget presented by the Liberals and the Center Party together with the government, SEK 335 million more is spent on the Prison Service than in the M- and KD-budget, which was supported by the Swedish Democrats.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-216	Madam President, I would like I feel a little forced to take a line at the Center Party and Jonny Cato Hansson. We are told here that the investments in the Prison Service in the budget presented last autumn are considerably smaller than those that the Center Party and Liberals are now delivering together with the government. It's an irrelevant comparison. A better comparison is what the Center Party did for shadow budget to the budget adopted in the autumn. There, the Center Party invested 2.1 billion more than the government in the Police Authority but 0 SEK more in the Prison Service. In the 2018 budget, we see that the Center Party invested 800 million more on the Police Authority and 0 SEK more on the Prison Service. If we go back to 2017 we see that the Center Party invested half a billion more than the government at the Police Authority and 1 1⁄2 million more at the Prison Service. Do you, Jonny Cato Hansson, call this a responsibility when you say that this and now is a lack of capacity in Swedish prisons? Why is there a lack of capacity in Swedish prisons? Is it because we have invested too much or too little in Swedish penitentiary? And what responsibility does Jonny Cato Hansson himself know when he gets to report that the Center Party has been one of the parties that have invested SEK 0 in the Prison Service during all the years, while at the same time giving the Police Authority more resources? Does Jonny Cato Hansson not see a connection and his own responsibility for the situation in which Swedish prison services now find themselves?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-219	Madam President, I would like I believe that all parties should examine themselves. The debate over the last few years has been very much about the police, Säpo and so on, but the whole legal chain needs to be strengthened. Of course you can discuss who has previously bet what. But I choose to note that the budget that we are now presenting has an investment of SEK 335 million more on the Prison Service's activities than the budget that the Swedish Democrats actually contributed to getting through in the Riksdag, namely the M-KD budget. For me, it is relevant what challenges we are facing here and today and what we are going to do to overcome them. Then I am pleased and proud that we, together with the Government, note that the Prison Service has a good business, a business that needs to be developed and invested more in the coming years. I am absolutely convinced that the 335 million will make a real difference, and I am pleased and proud of that.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-223	Madam President, I would like Again: It is completely irrelevant to compare today's bets with yesterday's bets. If Jonny Cato Hansson is to make comparisons with the investments made in the spring budget, they must of course be made in relation to what the Swedish Democrats and other opposition parties are proposing at the same time. We are proposing 500 million for one single initiative, namely to rent prison places in other countries. In addition, we have 750 million more in our luggage from our budget from last autumn. That's the comparison that's relevant. Otherwise, you can do anything, and I do not think that will serve anyone in the debate. I continue to find it interesting to hear how the Center Party chooses to talk about the whole chain of justice and about the problem of capacity shortages today, while historically it has been the party that has invested the least in the Prison Service of all opposition parties and, at the same time, it has contributed to more resources for the Police Authority. Of course, this doesn't make any sense. The fact that we have had more legal persons is linked to the fact that we have made strong efforts on the Swedish police through pressure from the opposition. But the reason for the lack of capacity in our prisons is that Member Hansson, together with the government parties, has historically been very inactive when it comes to investments in Swedish prison care. It is your responsibility that it looks as it does today, and I think you can take it with you to your continued negotiations with the government.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-226	Madam President, I would like After all, the Correctional Service is doing its job today. That's the way it is. The overlays are on the way, and that is why we are now making efforts to avoid them. But the situation here and now you can handle it. Even if it is precarious in some parts of the country, we can see that the mission is being carried out. I can only say that I think that the Swedish Democrats have a great responsibility for the budget that you helped to get through in the Swedish Parliament. It would be more relevant to ask M and KD why they did not then choose to invest more in the Prison Service's activities than the government, Liberals and the Center Party do today. Again, there will be a lot of discussions back and forth in the security debate about who is investing in what and who is not investing in what. I choose to see it as very positive that many parties in here see that the Prison Service has a great need that we need to invest more in the coming years.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-229	Madam President, I would like Last week, I went to the Kumla Institute. It was incredibly interesting. Unfortunately, the charges are in many parts double-coated. Many clients share rooms and live far too crowded. It is clear that in recent years raising-penalty-policies are not really realizing what the consequences would be in the end. Overcrowding is dangerous, and it creates uncertainty in the clients. I shook hands with a man sentenced to life who told me how important his involvement in the institution's now abandoned monasteries had been to him. It was very nice to see. He had gained insights that he would not otherwise have received. A younger man told me about the environmental science training he had attended at a distance from the prison but which he is now no longer allowed to attend, because it is a university education. He wanted to come out on the other side as an academic. Now he can't. There are too many who only talk about the length of the penalty but nothing about the content. Nothing about the importance of being able to participate in a treatment program, to be able to talk to someone, to get treatment for their addiction, to be able to study or work during their time in the institution. We are in a political debate and context where criminals should no longer be seen as people with rights and human qualities, but only as evil beings to be locked up. It's one of the most dangerous views we can have. Correctional services are doing a fantastic job of getting people to change their behaviour from the criminal, familiarized pattern to something else. Through treatment, conversation and work, you should get better out. However, the political debate is only about how long people should be locked up and not a bit about how to get better out on the other side. There is currently no treatment for people guilty of honour-related violence and oppression. That should be a matter of course. There is also no possibility of a good educational environment in all institutions, and the possibility of studying is very different depending on which institution you are at. It should be a socio-economic self-evident fact that people in prison should be able to study at all levels and come out with an education. For many obvious reasons, there are also difficulties in keeping in touch with your children during an institution stay. The Left Party would like to look at how support for children who have parents in prison can be improved. There are both family rooms and various measures, such as being able to read a bedtime story to your children. Today, however, we do not know how many children have a parent in prison. This should be the task of the Victims' Agency to investigate. Madam President, I would like If we really want to overcome crime and relapse into crime, many fewer people should be locked up in prison. Many, many more would serve their sentence in freedom with electronic anklet and intensive surveillance. To serve your sentence in the community is incredibly much tougher than being locked up. You have to face familiar behavioral patterns and old friends who do nonsense, and you have to be sober and drug-free yourself. This would also solve the problem of overcrowded prisons. Many other countries, such as France and Belgium, have similar systems, and the Prison Service is well aware that this is not a question of how but when. Let everyone with a sentence of one year serve their sentence in freedom! It is mostly these who also relapse into crime, which shows that the lock-in penalty is a very bad tool that does not work. I'm in favour of reservation 23.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-239	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has serious problems with crime and gang crime. Last year, 306 shootings took place. The shootings continued in 2019. Uncertainty is widespread. The number of vulnerable areas has increased while the police density has decreased. This morning a minor girl was raped south of Stockholm. In this situation, the Prime Minister presents a spring budget that cuts off every four new crowns that were added to the police in the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget. The Head of the National Police has expressed concern about this and has criticised the government's cuts. He states:- There will be consequences for the police. This is money that is already included in this year's budget and was intended to be used to continue to develop police activities in the coming years. ..................................................... In view of the problems we have with the killing attempts of the gangs, which they are targeting each other in several of our cities in the country, and given that the police are already being forced to prioritise between investigations into serious crimes, I wonder how the Prime Minister justifies cutting back on the budget for the Police Authority at this point.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-242	Mr President, I would like to That's absolutely right. This is a very important area. Society is obliged to ensure that our citizens are safe, no matter where you live, no matter who you are and no matter where you come from. It is for this reason that we should not engage in statistical exercises, but should tell the truth about what it is about. Our government has contributed more money to the Police Authority than the Police Authority itself requested. We're almost at a doubled rate in training new police officers. This means that we can now see that we will reach the 10 000 more police workers that we want in the agency by 2024. We've allocated more money. We've made sure there's more training. And we're tightening up the laws. We give the police better tools. One of the reasons why we have to transfer money from the police to the Prison Service is that we are now much better at putting criminals behind bars. Now the detention centres are full, as are the other parts of the Prison Service. The police themselves have been asking for several years to be released from the mission of transporting prisoners and prisoners. We thought it was the right choice for the police. That's why we've listened to it. Then it is also quite normal routine to ensure that the Prison Service receives that money instead. Money used for transporting prisoners should go to the Prison Service, now that it is the Prison Service that does. That's right. On the total – don't come up with any strange statistics! "The Police Authority has received considerably more resources, and the Police Authority should have more resources. Our citizens should be safe.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-247	Mr President, I would like to This won't hold. The Head of the National Police himself says that the government's explanation, that the Prison Service has taken over information from the police, does not hold. They've had that task for a long time. I know that, who himself was Minister of Justice at the Ministry of Justice for eight years. These are not new tasks, Prime Minister. In addition, the money is already committed to continue to develop police activities in the years to come. What does the Prime Minister think that, at this point, the police should refrain from doing to cope with the cut? This House needs to know.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-250	Mr President, I would like to When Billström himself was a minister, there were more transports of detainees and prisoners. There are now fewer, and it is supposed to be transferred to the Prison Service. That's what the police wanted. I think the police should be heeded in that respect. Then it is also very reasonable for the Prison Service to receive the funds. That's exactly how it's supposed to be. The fact that funds have been provided doesn't even get Billström away. A lot of resources have been made available to the police, more than the police themselves requested. It is in good faith that there will be more police officers, and they will have better tools. In addition, we have tightened the penalties for several crimes so that we have, among other things, more detainees than in many years. Those who went out with guns during Billström's time in the Justice Department were released that afternoon. When we rule, they're still in custody.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-253	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Yesterday thousands of people marched here in Stockholm from Humlegården to Mynttorget. The aim was to draw attention to the situation of many elderly people in our country, not least homeless elderly people who are a growing group. It's about the poor elderly in our country, thousands of people. A list of names has now been signed by over 75 000 Swedes. The purpose is for it to be handed over to the Prime Minister. You'd want to hand over the list yesterday. Mr President, I would like to I was in the demonstration. Where was Stefan Löfven?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-256	Mr President, I would like to Demonstration and manifestation are extremely important. The aim is to ensure that our older people have the best possible conditions. It is the generation before us that has made it possible for us, not least for me, to live a good life. Then they should have as good conditions as possible. I'm busy making sure they get better conditions. That is why, during the last parliamentary term, we made sure, among other things, to remove the unfair taxation of that particular group. More taxes were paid than workers during the bourgeois period. We have now removed that difference for those with the lowest pensions. We've made sure to make dentistry cheaper. We have made sure to improve the housing supplement. Primary care is free of charge for those over 85 and so on. The parties behind the pension agreement also agree to increase the basic pension and the housing supplement further so that the financial conditions of pensioners can be improved. We will also continue to invest in housing for the elderly in particular, not least for the most deprived. We need more retirement homes. That is why investment aid is extremely important. I am also in contact with the petition and will meet them at the appropriate time to discuss these issues.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-261	Mr President, I would like to That's good work. Increased housing allowances and the basic level of pension are important efforts to make it better. It is partly about that. It is also about the housing situation in general. In connection with the manifestation yesterday, I also said that the main purpose of such a manifestation may be to pay attention to those very questions, to show how many people care and how important the issues are. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is in some sense retreating and is prepared to do things that must be done. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister, one day after the manifestation, has decided to meet the organisation At Your Page that is behind this. My question remains. Why didn't the Prime Minister have time to do it yesterday?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-266	Mr President, I would like to This is just gonna be artificial. "Retire" says Jimmie Åkesson, even though I've stood here and told you what we've been doing throughout the last term of office. The reason for that is that I am passionate about these issues. Our elders are gonna be fine. I myself know how important it is that there is a strong and solidarity-based society for those who need it. That's what our elders have been involved in building up. That's why I'm passionate about these issues. The elderly should have good housing and good economic conditions. They should be able to live free and safe in the autumn of age. Work on this was therefore started during the last parliamentary term. We will continue during this parliamentary term in order to look our elders in the eye and say: You have done so much for us. You're going to have a good time. You'll be fine.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-269	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd take the Prime Minister to the beautiful Härje Valley. In Hede there is a company, Fjällhälsan, which is started by enthusiasts in the village. Today, primary care of very high quality is carried out in one of Sweden's most sparse areas. The company has now expanded and is not only in Hede but also has operations in Vemdalen, Lillhärdal and during the winter season in Björnrike. This activity is based on doctors who live in other parts of the country but who regularly come to work. They do a fantastic job at Fjällhälsan. It is high quality healthcare for people who are definitely not spoiled with an abundance of public service. Mr President, I would like to However, this activity is now under threat because the Swedish Tax Agency in Stockholm has decided that the agency will charge VAT by 25 per cent. At once, the costs of Fjällhälsan in Hede increase dramatically. Not all county health centres, which are more dependent on hired personnel, are affected as they receive their VAT. It is so sad to see how a decision made at a government agency here in Stockholm has devastating consequences for healthcare in Härjedalen. The gaps are increasing. Sweden is slipping apart. My questions, Mr President, to the Prime Minister are: what is the message to the people of Hede, Lillhärdal and Vemdalen who are now at risk of much worse care? Above all, what does the Prime Minister intend to do to correct the decision taken by the Tax Agency?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-273	Mr President, I would like to I do not know how general political a tax ruling is. I have not had time to prepare any thoughts about a specific decision by the Swedish Tax Agency here in Stockholm. On the other hand, we are busy making sure that the whole country lives, and not only live but also grow and develop. This is the government's priority. This is what we are doing in cooperation with the Centre Party and the Liberals through the January Agreement. As a result, the additional funds that we want to ensure that municipalities and county councils have in order to be able to carry out good care. In addition, the specific investment in health care, care for the elderly and so on. There's supposed to be resources here. I cannot specifically comment on a judgment and what its consequences will be. But there is no doubt that the government has priority number one to ensure that the whole country can live and develop. That is why we are going to ensure that there are resources, trained people, technology and a structure for it to work, no matter where in the country you live.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-276	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Prime Minister is not familiar with the specific case I described. But this is something that has great consequences not only for Fjällhälsan in Hede but in large parts of Sweden where private carers now from one day to another for their hired staff suddenly have to start paying 25 percent VAT on the cost. This does not affect county-run units because they receive VAT. In practice, this means increased costs for the company, because the compensation received is exactly the same as before. The consequence will be that private carers will simply have to shut down their activities or drastically cut back. What has happened at Bollnäs Hospital, where Capio has retired, is just one example of this. If you want to have competition neutrality and also protect patients who live in sparse parts of Sweden who choose a private health care provider, you have to make sure to correct this so that it becomes the same conditions for everyone.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-278	Mr President, I would like to I have to answer the same question as before: I will of course have to take this question with me and look at what it is all about and what may have already been discussed by the responsible minister in the department responsible. But I cannot respond here and now to the consequences of a decision by the Swedish Tax Agency here in Stockholm.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-280	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! Sweden has strong trade unions with a high degree of organisation. It brings a lot of good. This makes it more difficult to exploit employees, it benefits serious employers and it increases equality in Swedish society. At the same time, Sweden is a country with very few strike days. And this is connected. We can negotiate wage increases and better working conditions. This strength is ultimately based on the fact that the workers' side has the possibility of conflict. The employer knows that there is a limit to what you can do before you meet a well-organized opponent who opposes. That's why the right to strike is so important. Nevertheless, less than an hour ago the Social Democrats put forward a proposal to restrict the Swedish right to strike. The conflict in the port of Gothenburg is used as an argument. It doesn't make any sense. This conflict had not been affected by this legislation because it was a collective agreement. The conflict was resolved thanks to the right to strike. And the conflict was not primarily a strike but a massive abuse of the lockout weapon by employers. Nevertheless, the government's restrictions are aimed unilaterally at the employee side, with a limited right to strike. You bought the right hand picture. You have accepted their arguments. Now you want to weaken the position of employees in the Swedish labour market. The problem today is not that too many people have the strength of the trade union organisation, but the problem is that too many people have precarious jobs. How does the proposal for a limited right to strike strengthen the position of employees in Sweden?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-284	Mr President, I would like to Now I myself have been quite involved in these matters. I know, among other things, that the social partners are behind this legislation. This applies to both trade union organisations and employers. They do so for the simple reason that the legislation states that this applies to the whole labour market, not just to those who have signed the main agreement. Now, instead, there will be a level playing field. This does not essentially mean that the right of conflict is restricted. That's not the point. Without the trade union that wants to fight for a collective agreement, it can do so if, of course in democratic order, it has a decision on it and if it has negotiated to reach a collective agreement but then sees that the whole thing cannot be done. If you have not negotiated, however, you do not have this right to strike. This is exactly how it works today. That is how it works for all the other social partners. Therefore, it is not surprising whether legislation interferes with what the parties already agree on. I think it's pretty natural. But Jonas Sjöstedt is happy to go to LO, TCO and Saco and say that the rules that they have and that they are bound by, the Left does not think that the other trade unions should be bound by, but they should have other rules and other possibilities to use conflict law. The role of the social partners in the labour market is extremely important. They have a great responsibility for the conditions, wages and many other issues, and should have so. It is therefore absolutely right that the right to conflict should exist. It's there and it's not changed. In addition, if you wish to do so, political action must be taken, and support measures must be implemented if you wish to do so. The simple thing about it is that you should follow the rules that the main organization already follows.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-289	Mr President, I would like to There is something very sad about hearing a Social Democratic Prime Minister defend the restricted right of conflict for employees. This is exactly what this is about, as you can see when you read the proposal. The satisfaction of the employers' side is not much to be surprised. But the fact is that you blackmailed the workers' side that there would be even worse legislation if they had not agreed to this. This is not the only example. Next is the attack on job security. You're preparing a bill that will seriously break the Employment Protection Act. That won't be necessary. There is no problem to solve. LO is clear. Municipal is clear t. Why are you attacking the job security of employees, when it is the lack of secure employment that is the major problem? I can assure you of one thing: our mandates do not exist for a government that attacks the Employment Protection Act. Then we are prepared to ask for a motion of censure.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-292	Mr President, I would like to No, it's not a restriction on conflict law – it's standing up for the Swedish model. The parties can fight for collective agreements, and that's how it should be. But you should do it according to the same rules as everyone else. The law settles with the agreements that are already concluded. I think it's a good order. This is how you stand up for the Swedish model. As far as the Employment Protection Act is concerned, that is also wrong. We have now set up an investigation. It is decided that an investigation should be carried out to ensure that the balance is maintained. On the one hand, exceptions to the order are extended, but this does not change the principles of the rules of rotation. On the other hand, the law will clarify employers' responsibility for the competence development and adaptability of employees. This is not in today's legislation. In that case, it's a backup. For my own part and for the part of the government, I can say that we would not have made the exceptions in the order of order if we had been left to decide for ourselves. But for the sake of balance and for the sake of the parties, this is a good thing.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-296	Mr President, I would like to Sweden now has 100,000 patients who have been waiting illegally for treatment for a long time. This corresponds to all residents of three medium-sized municipalities. The bourgeois government halved the care queues between 2006 and 2014, including with the help of the queue billions that the Prime Minister abolished as soon as he got the chance. It was also the bourgeois government that ensured that the care guarantee in 2010 was written into the law book and that the queues were systematically measured and followed up. Care queues are not a natural law. Combating them is a matter of competence, political will and priorities. Unfortunately, however, the Social Democrats seem not only unable to deal with this problem. You also seem to lack the will to prioritise it. The result speaks clearly. During the last parliamentary term, Mr President, the number of people who have been waiting for treatment illegally for a long time doubled. It has now been 134 days since this House voted on the budget supported by the Moderates and Christian Democrats. There is money set aside for active and effective work to reduce queues again through a new reinforced and improved queue billion. In fact, it is SEK 1 600 million that are earmarked for the county councils that ensure that citizens receive the care they are entitled to in a reasonable time. Yet, nothing is happening. In more than four months the government has not performed as much as a napkin sketch. The money's just lying there waiting to be used. Far more clearly than this, the lack of interest in solving the problems can hardly be expressed. Why haven't 100,000 people in illegal long-term care queues been a priority for your government, Stefan Löfven?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-302	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that's exactly what they are. That is quite rightly described. We have a problem with too long queues, and they have grown. I'm the first one to admit it. But it is also the case that the Moderates in the former government, the latest bourgeois government, themselves said that the queue billions that were introduced played their part. It also provided for too many exceptions to the principle of care as needed. For example, chronicles did not come forward as they should. So we have a problem. Therefore, it is important to invest a lot of money in municipalities and county councils, money that they can use themselves. Then it is not possible to reduce taxes with the crown numbers that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats want, but to make sure that this is a priority. We are now introducing a revised queue billions, along with the demand for fixed medical contact. We will also make sure to have more employees in the care. It is basically what determines whether we have queues or not. We need more employees. This, in turn, requires that we have more educated people. We now train considerably more nurses, specialist nurses, midwives and more. They will in turn be given more training; the nurse must also be able to train as a specialist nurse with much better financial opportunities. We're also going to use the technology to help. We should not least continue the major investment we have made in the field of cancer with the standardised health care processes. We now have 30 or 31– I do not remember which – standardised healthcare course, and we clearly see that waiting times for cancer patients are significantly reduced. That journey must continue. With the help of more resources in the form of money for municipalities and county councils, more employees and better technology, we will make sure to remove the queues.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-308	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if I got so much calmer. Look at the reality! You've doubled the care queues. We halved them. I hear many words, but there are no fair words that will shorten the care queues. Action is required. That is why the Riksdag has decided on a new improved queue billions. This is not about the previous government's queue billions, but about a new queue billions decided by the Riksdag. But in four months, the government hasn't even produced a napkin sketch, like I said. Mr President, I would like to Next week is May 1st. Then Social Democrats, even if they are not so many nowadays, will go on demonstrations and talk warmly about solidarity. Many of the patients who have been waiting illegally for a long time in line are not fit to go on any demonstration trains at all. However, if it had been possible to physically line up a queue, it would have been nearly 100 miles long and probably far surpassed all the first May trains in which Stefan Löfven participated. Solidarity is great, Stefan Löfven, but where is solidarity with the 100,000 who have been waiting illegally for a long time in care queues?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-311	Mr President, I would like to Much more is needed than words. Therefore, it is precisely action that applies. When we add resources to the county councils and regions, they have the opportunity to hire more. Just over a year ago, perhaps soon a year and a half, I was in Gällivare Hospital. There it was told that two more nurses had been hired, which gave a much better opportunity to shorten the care queues. In fact, so did they. That's the basic problem. In connection with the January agreement, we are now making a revised cue billion for that very reason. The last one wasn't good enough. We are making a new one together with better government control of the regions and county councils. No matter where in the country you live, we make sure that the care is available for you when you need it. Nothing else is good enough.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-315	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot of men in a row now. For my part, I cannot do much about it in a short time. But at least I can put a young woman downtown for a while. When a Swede is currently travelling around Europe and showing leadership on the most important issue for humanity, it is not the Prime Minister and neither of us here, but a young girl named Greta. She's worried about the future. She's worried about the climate. She receives standing applause in the European Parliament. She gets to talk to thousands of people in London. She is hailed by the Pope and highlighted by Barack Obama as an example. A lot of people follow her. A whole generation of young people now expect us politicians to deliver. I think there are many of us who have a lesson to learn: myself and my party, but also the whole of politics and the system that we have here in Parliament. But it must be done with others. Sweden can do a lot and will do a lot. Sweden takes the lead in the field of climate change. But we can do even more if we do so with others. Therefore, perhaps the most important thing we can do is to make sure that the whole of Europe comes to the fore, that the EU system is better at delivering good climate policy and that the EU is given more power, more ability and more strength to do something about the climate threat. Now that we are about to go to elections to the European Parliament, we should therefore spend quite a lot of time thinking about how the European Union can get more power and more power to do something about the climate threat. Instead, at the beginning of the election campaign, it now sounds like more people are hesitant and dunging about giving the EU this ability. At a time when we should spend more time thinking about how Europe can stand on its toes and do something about what Greta and her generational companions are asking of us, more people are thinking about how to reduce Europe's power. How, Mr President, does the Prime Minister of Greta and her generational colleagues explain that the Swedish Government and the Social Democrats do not want a common European carbon tax, something that might be more crucial than much else?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-318	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad the topic of climate is coming up. That's exactly what they say. Greta Thunberg and a whole generation and also those after expect us to do the right thing. That is why I am proud, but not satisfied, that Sweden is at the forefront of these issues. We have a relatively high reputation, not least in the European Union. With the climate framework that Parliament has decided on, with the action plans that the Government will deliver as required by the Climate Act, with the goals and energy arrangements that we have, we have come a long way. But we still have a lot to do. Sweden has been a driving force in the European Union to ensure that the EU is active and proactive in, for example, Katowice at the latest. It was a success to get that far. But I also know that when you sit around the table of the European Council, not all countries want to be at the forefront, unfortunately, but rather some want to slow down that development. Now taxation and the CO2 tax are not the only thing that the EU can do. That is why the government's position and what we are pushing in discussions on the future long-term budget is precisely that the long-term budget should be ecologically sustainable and support the climate measures that we want to take. I have every respect that the Liberals are running the issue. We are more cautious about charging taxes at EU level. I have full respect if the Liberals want to do it. But don't hang it up on just that question. There is much that the EU can and must do to be a leader in the global climate debate.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-323	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. There is a lot that Sweden can do, a lot that Sweden should do and a lot that Sweden must do from this House and from the government. Perhaps the most important thing is to ensure that we have a full impact at European level as well. It is when Europe stands up together and does something that it can have a real effect. That is why the Liberals are in favour of more European nuclear power. We say yes to more climate aid at EU level. We say yes to clear common objectives within the EU for climate policy. It is not the only thing, but perhaps the most important thing is for us to have a common European CO2 tax in order to reduce CO2 emissions, combat the climate threat and ensure that we get more effective support for green conversion and pave the way for new green technologies. There should be more of us who say 'yes' to increased force and power to the European level on the climate issue. I think it is a pity that the Prime Minister cannot say here and now: it is probably not so bad with a European carbon tax. We need more power in Europe.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-326	Mr President, I would like to We share views on several of the things that Christer Nylander lists. This also applies to aid for climate action. We have made it clear in our aid policy that this is the way we want to go and the way we will go. The previous government itself took an initiative in the previous legislature to limit the number of allowances by ensuring that they are not resold as the previous government chose to do. When we cancel allowances, we raise the price of emissions. It is an active and very concrete measure that we took at the time. We're still holding on to that work. Again, I have every respect for the fact that there can be different views on tax law at European level. The government is driving and will continue to push that the EU is at the forefront of the work for a good environment and that we ensure that we are climate-smart.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-330	Mr President, I would like to For the credibility of our pension system and our well-being, it is a key issue that those who work do so longer than today. Therefore, within the framework of the Pensions Group, we are now carrying out work with several measures to give those who want and can be able to stay longer in working life. At the same time, we know that many people do not even have the energy to work until the age of 65 and who, due to worn-out bodies or for other reasons, need to retire earlier. This is particularly true of women, and strikingly often in the public sector. It is women who support our welfare and who already have a low pension. The inequities of working life follow up with retirement age. Low pay, part-time work and perhaps work in the evenings and weekends are taking their toll, and so are very low pensions.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-334	Mr President, I would like to The issue raised by Erica Nådin is crucial for so many people who are currently living in very scarce conditions and many who are at risk of doing so. There are two things we have to do and we have to do. One is to ensure that, in the short term, pensions must be raised for those who now have poor pensions. We cannot accept that people live in such bad conditions. The second is just the jobs. That's what matters. Firstly, how do we increase the employment rate of women? Women should have the same employment rate and as much access to the labour market as men. Women from other countries, in particular, need more access to the labour market. Secondly, it is important to ensure that people are able to work a whole life. In women-dominated professions in particular, we see that women are being worn out. That's why they're going to have more colleagues. They should have better conditions so that they can work until 65 years. Working life is crucial. That is why we will invest in ensuring that there are better working conditions, not least for women in the labour market.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-339	Mr President, I would like to We need to tackle climate change. But we also need to address the effects that are already here as a result of climate change. For many, I think memory is short. But we have been awakened by the news in recent days about incredibly low groundwater levels. There's already a fire in several places in our country. The drought is spreading. Climate change means that we can count on more and more extreme weather. We need to be prepared to face that. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the government has done to increase its readiness to meet the extreme weather that may come, to deal with floods and major forest fires, to support agriculture and manage droughts and the risks that may come from more extreme weather.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-341	Mr President, I would like to I can list some examples. One thing we are now doing is to ensure that it now needs to be mapped out around the country where we have risks due to climate change. There may be a risk of landslides and other risks that need to be analysed and assessed so that we get a better picture of what we need to do. The second concerns the fires, which are now very concrete. We can see that we have not only grass fires on the spring side but also forest fires that may be more unusual at this time. It speaks for, just as Jonas Eriksson said, that we have climate change really going on. We should also be able to tell the Swedish people that we are increasing our preparedness continuously. We are now training more firemen. We make sure that there is more hose and other tools out in the forest when needed. We have also contracted 30 helicopters on standby. Some of them are already under fire. We do everything and will do more when necessary.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-346	Mr President, I would like to News today: Children subjected to rape out there. News yesterday: Reports of robbery against children are increasing strongly. News the day before yesterday: Strong detonation in Malmö. Traffic school got the front door blown off. A few days ago, two young men killed in a car. Sexual offenses are on the increase. There are serious crimes every two days. It is so often that you can hardly read but just browse by. It is a very dangerous development. There's no time for the police. Investigations are being piled up. In this situation, the government chooses to reduce the police budget by 232 million. The head of the police says that that money is already committed and that there will be consequences. It is irresponsible, especially against all victims. What does the Prime Minister say to all victims who do not get redress because their case is high and evidence disappears so that the cases are dismissed?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-348	Mr President, I would like to The question was as obedient as a previous question. That is why the same answer. It is not true that the police are given less resources. The police have received far more resources. When you move one task from one authority to another, it is reasonable that that authority also receives those resources. It's a reasonable order. But the police should have more resources. We're going to have 10,000 more police employees; that's where we agree. But then we need to educate more people. Therefore, we are now training almost twice as many as were trained during the time of the bourgeois government. It's absolutely important. We're improving the tools. We facilitate the surveillance of cameras for the police, and we will transfer this decision to the police altogether. This also applies to wiretap tools and more. In addition, it is the long-term perspective that applies. We must ensure that social conditions are improved so that we cut off the supply of crime. There the police are clear: the whole community must help with this. Then we'll make sure to do the same.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-353	Mr President, I would like to Today we have an acute shortage of space in our prisons. The occupancy rate is 98 per cent, and five years ago it was 75 per cent. In order to have an optimal crime response, the occupancy rate should be 80 per cent. Today we have a deficit of 900 seats. Air is needed in the Prison Service system, partly in order to be able to renovate and partly in order to move inmates, who also become more violent when there is a narrower prison. If nothing is done drastically, this will lead to an untenable situation. There will be longer queues to serve time. There will be violations of the time limit for transfer from prison to prison and an increased exponential violence curve between prisoners and staff. It goes without saying that there will be an increased cost to society as we have convicted crime-prone people out on our streets who are supposed to be behind bars. The Swedish democrats have put forward a proposal to solve the acute shortage of seats by renting places of detention, initially in the Netherlands. My question is: how does the Prime Minister feel about renting places abroad?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-357	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that it is just as Katja Nyberg says: we have almost full occupancy in prisons and detention centres. That's because now there are so many more behind bars. What has been done in the short term with more police officers, better tools and so on, and better and much more stringent legislation, including in the area of serious weapons offences, has brought this about. That's good. These people are supposed to be behind bars, and of course more places are needed for the Prison Service. This work is under way, because, as I said, more will be needed. How the Correctional Service then does exactly with its places and if this is possible or not, the authority must respond. I'll leave it unsaid. But we also need to reduce the supply. We have to work on the long-term and the social. It is about jobs for those who do not have work, schools that work so that the children go to school and so on. This is perhaps the clearest message from the police: we cannot do this ourselves, but we must have the help of the whole community.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-361	Mr President, I would like to We are in a tougher security policy position. For example, there is a war in eastern Ukraine where 10 people die every month. In total, 14 000 people have died over five years. At this point, we need to strengthen Sweden's defence. In Norway, defence expenditure is around 1.5% of GDP, and in Finland it will be 2% in a few years' time. SVT's Report reported yesterday that the Social Democrats in the Swedish Defence Committee believe that the defence funding needs to be increased to SEK 84 billion per year in 2025. I would like to ask: is it also the Prime Minister's view that it takes 84 billion, 1.5 % of GDP, in 2025? That is the specific question I would like to ask in view of the great needs that exist and the statement that was reported in Report yesterday. Is this something the Prime Minister is behind?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-365	Mr President, I would like to I will not comment on Report at all. However, I can say first of all that I do not believe in any specific percentage of GDP. The simple reason is that, for example, Greece, which had a declining GDP over seven eight years, with this development, could demonstrate much higher levels of defence expenditure in relation to the GDP by doing nothing. In addition, the content of defence expenditure is calculated in many different ways in different countries. So I do not believe in this way of counting. We will increase our defence capabilities and have done so during the last parliamentary term, unlike what was done in the past. We will continue to do this. Now I intend to await the position of the Defence Committee; I think it is wise to do so. When we find out about the Swedish Defence Committee's clarification, we also want to ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces do their analysis of the matter. Then, when all this work is done, we will return with a bill.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-369	Mr President, I would like to I was going to raise the issue of state local presence and service throughout the country. It is about trust and security with the functions of society and ultimately, I would say, trust in democracy as such. The close contact with citizens, both in the urban environment and in smaller towns and rural areas, may not simply be replaced by digital services moderated from entirely other places. Local presence is also important. Even in an EU perspective, there is talk of the power that exists in the regions of Europe, and a great deal of effort is being made there. My question is: What initiatives does the Prime Minister intend to take to strengthen social development from a regional and local perspective for the whole of Sweden and for Sweden's development?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-372	Mr President, I would like to As I have said before, it is a priority for the government that the whole country should not only live but also grow. It takes a variety of things. It requires training opportunities, housing, roads, railways, broadband – all of this. In addition, it is important that the state authorities are present. The M-KD-SD budget that was voted through in Parliament meant a very rapid reduction in the Employment Service. This has led to the notice that is now at Arbetsförmedlingen and which, unfortunately, will make their opportunities more difficult. We are now having a discussion with Arbetsförmedlingen about the fact that they must still be present in all municipalities in some way, perhaps not with full-time offices but at least with booked visits. In addition, we continue the line by ensuring that no new authorities are placed in Stockholm. They will be placed in other parts of the country. We are now continuing with the possibility of deploying existing authorities in the country, and we will ensure that the service offices are expanded so that the state is present throughout Sweden.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-376	Mr President, the Prime Minister. Swedish agriculture is one of our most important industries. In the summer of 2018, this nutrition suffered tremendously during the drought. It suffered a great deal because of the slowness of the government's response to the severe drought. I know, hear and understand that profitability is extremely difficult right now for Swedish agriculture. We have been pursuing a policy for a long time that has driven the profitability of Swedish agriculture down rather than up. Now there are many signals – low groundwater levels and fires – indicating that we also get a dry 2019. Is there a readiness on the part of the government regarding the safety of feed imports, the possibility of harvesting trees and the possibility of having access to water for animals and farming quickly this summer if the crisis comes?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-379	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, an extremely important issue for rural areas, but also for the whole country, that food security works. That is why, throughout the last parliamentary term, the government was working on just one food strategy that relates to how we should ensure that supply works. It is of course important for agriculture itself, but it also concerns fuels, technology and a variety of other issues. The whole is therefore important, and we are working on it – also in dialogue with the industry. That is absolutely crucial in order to be able to do this. Last year there were exceptional circumstances, which is why we are giving extra money to deal with this. I cannot answer precisely what measures are planned for imports and the other one that John Widegren lists. But there is such a dialogue with the industry, and we should be prepared. We must ensure that agriculture works, and it should not be unduly affected by drought.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-383	Mr President, I would like to At home in Hässleholm I have a daughter who is three years old this summer. One of my most important tasks is to make her dare to dream big and to explain to her that through hard work and wise choices she has every opportunity to achieve her dreams. However, it hurts tremendously as a mother, as a politician, as a teacher and as a feminist when studying shows that although women have higher and longer education, they still earn less than men do. The fact that this is still the case, 2019, provokes me.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-386	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we must be able to tell both girls and boys that no matter what gender you have, you should have a good future in our society. Sweden is relatively other countries at the forefront of gender equality work. In no way, however, is it clear, only for the reasons listed here. Women have better study results, but in the higher education system there are still considerably more men who become professors. Already there, in that sector, we see that something is crazy. That is why I am proud to lead a feminist government. A feminist government says that gender equality analysis must be carried out in all areas of policy. This should be done in the field of education, but also in the field of labour market policy and in all other areas so that we can systematically and structuredly address these differences. Of course, all women should have the right to work and good pay.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-390	Mr President, I would like to We are now moving towards a recession. As a rule, those who are now excluded are quite far from the labour market, and we are now seeing tendencies towards a turnaround in the economy. We therefore need to equip people for the labour market and to be able to get to work. In the Prime Minister's and Government's budget, which was presented a few weeks ago, the government forecasts exclusion, and I mean social assistance dependence in particular. For financial aid, an increase of 20% is forecast for this term of office – a 20% increase without the municipalities being compensated either financially or with tools to break this exclusion.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-393	Mr President, I would like to Well, I guess it's going to a moderate to ask such a question. Excuse me, Mr Malmqvist, but now you have just voted through a budget which removes substantial parts of labour market policy measures. These tools have thus been greatly weakened. Then you stand here in the speaker's chair wondering what the government is going to do. The forecasts are based on the very fact that, if nothing is done now, it will be considerably more difficult, not least for those who are far from the labour market, to receive measures and support. If you remove these tools, you have less opportunity. We're taking money to the municipalities. We're taking money to the county councils. We guarantee it throughout the term of office – open, unmarked money. In addition, in our amending budget, we bring better possibilities for equipping job seekers. But do not stand here in the pulpit and pretend that the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats do not matter to this, because it does!
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-398	Mr President, I would like to I have met too many children and young people who say early on that their future is set out, that they will never get to share in what society has to offer on equal terms because of their origins, where they live or what class of society they belong to. Access to a good school and education is a fundamental right for everyone, from preschool to higher education. Education is not only the most important tool for equality, it is also of great importance for the development of society as a whole. Directing funds to vulnerable areas, discussing school segregation and working to provide the right conditions for all students are important issues. This requires both investment and action. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: what are the most important investments the government makes – and wants to make – in the field of education?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-401	Mr President, I would like to In the field of education, we can divide it into a few blocks. One is to make teacher training more attractive. This is why we are increasing the quality of teacher training, but we are also expanding the places so that more people have the opportunity to train as teachers. We want to create more opportunities for academics to become teachers by studying a complementary educational education. Then you don't have to go all year, so to speak, but you can concentrate on pedagogy. The teachers' conditions are important. That's why the teacher wage initiative has played a part. We now see that more people want to be teachers, and that's good. But we also need teaching assistants so that we can relieve the teachers and let them focus on what they are going to do: prepare, conduct and evaluate the training and meet as many children as possible face to face. That is also why we are providing more resources to those schools that need more resources, so that we can weigh it off and make it fairer.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-403	Mr President, I would like to The alarm reports are very good from the Swedish municipalities right now when it comes to the economic situation. Not least, many small rural municipalities have great concerns, but some of our larger cities also have obvious problems. The outlook for the future does not look good either. If economic activity weakens and tax revenues decrease, we may face a very serious situation for the entire local government sector. There are many reasons why some municipalities have particularly serious problems, but one that is often mentioned is that an increasing number of new arrivals leave the start-up assignment without getting into work and thus refer to municipal support. Many smaller municipalities in sparsely populated areas have received large groups of newcomers who wanted to fill their empty dwellings – dwellings that are empty just because they have a weak labour market in the area. Many well - educated people have moved. Now that large groups of newcomers are failing to find work and are forced to live on income support, the situation becomes untenable.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-406	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that we now have fewer people in need of our subsidy and compensation systems than we have had in many years. We have managed to reduce that. Let's get on with it. It is important for us to give money to the municipalities – unmarked money. That is why we guarantee an increase of EUR 5 billion each year throughout the term of office. It was not facilitated by the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats, which cut off a lot of tax money. There, tax cuts were the most important. We don't think so, but that's what we have to deal with. We spend more money, and we guarantee it. We will also ensure that people are at work. Then you need tools to help people into the labour market. That's why we're pushing in our amending budget-- not as much as we wanted, but it's again because the M-KD-SD budget took away so much. We haven't been able to fix it yet, but we won't stop until we get there again.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-409	Mr President, I would like to Democracy is good, and freedom of speech is good. But the limit when democracy and freedom of expression go to something else is its worse finer. During the spring, we have seen horrors as democracy and freedom of expression move on to something else. I am thinking of the animal rights terrorism that we are currently seeing around Sweden, where young people, often with good will, go beyond the limits of what is freedom of expression and what is suddenly freedom of trade and property. We see that groupings are chasing new members among very young people. They hunt in school; they hunt in recreation centres and the like. I wonder how the government intends to work against this kind of extremism.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-413	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to distance myself directly from this kind of activities of vandalism, threats and other things. It does not belong at all in a democratic society. One may think and express it, but this is about destroying, sabotaging, threatening, and so on, I would like to distance myself from. That is why, of course in cooperation with the industry and the police, we need to see what we can do more to protect against this type of action. When it comes to schools, it's about a similar job, to make sure to bring this in: you have to think and say things-- not insulting things, but we have a fairly broad freedom of expression and opinion-- but it's not okay in our country to do it with threats, with violence and with vandalism. It's never gonna be okay. It's not democracy.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-416	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister visited Finland from 28 to 29 January. It was the Prime Minister's first trip abroad after he was elected Prime Minister a week earlier. The relationship between Finland and Sweden is special and has a long history. It is a bilateral relationship that can only improve, although there will always be a sporting rivalry. Finland will chair the EU Council of Ministers in the second half of this year. It is a Europe facing major challenges: Brexit, migration, climate change, defence and hybrid threats, to name a few. In what ways does the Prime Minister believe that Sweden can deepen its cooperation with Finland, especially in terms of defence and security issues and in view of the situation around the Baltic Sea?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-418	Mr President, I would like to Generally speaking, it is important that we in Sweden take our responsibility and increase our own defence capabilities but also do so in collaboration with others. We have a number of bilateral collaborations, and we have come the longest in it with Finland. It is already manifesting in joint exercises. In addition, Finland and Sweden participate in joint Nordic exercises, and we also participate in NATO exercises. We want to continue with that. The Ministry of Defence also discusses with the equivalent in Finland what we can do more specifically in the field of practice to both provide and receive military assistance in different situations without compromising our freedom of alliance. However, we still have practical commitments where we can make it easier for each other's defence forces to operate in their respective territories.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-421	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Prime Minister about a report that came in on Sunday. It shows that it doesn't matter if you work full time and save up for the cash bet – as a young person you still risk going outside the housing market. This is not just a problem for Stockholm and Gothenburg, but for 25 medium-sized cities. Due to amortisation requirements and other changes made by the government, it does not matter that you have a permanent job or that you have the cash stake, because that is not enough in any case. I would like to ask what the Prime Minister can afford to the young person who wants to buy one or to the couple who wants to move in together and own their own home. What will this couple do, Prime Minister?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-423	Mr President, I would like to We must build more in Sweden. That's what it's all about. We have too little choice of apartments and housing in general, and it has been far too low construction for a long, long time. We've got the construction up, but we're still not where we should be. We saw a slight decline last year, but now after the first quarter we see perhaps a rise again. We need to push up the building. It is not just the right-of-occupancy apartments that are involved, but now it is a question of building rental apartments, because it is perhaps the most common thing for young people to get out on the housing market. That is why investment aid is extremely important, and it has played a major role. The Moderates do not like it, but we like it, and we intend to continue to have investment aid so that we can build more rental apartments. For those who want to buy their right-of-occupancy it should of course be quite possible. It will be built mixed. The amortisation requirement has not meant that there has been a lower proportion of young borrowers, I would say. There's no concern, but there's somewhere else in that case.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-425	Mr President, I would like to There have been a lot of scandals linked to tax offences and tax evasion, and there have been, among other things, millionaires, big companies and banks involved in this. But what we've seen is just the tip of an iceberg. The Tax Agency expects us to lose about SEK 130 billion each year that would have been paid into tax. This money is much more beneficial in welfare than in the pockets of in many cases already rich people and wealthy companies. My question is: how can we combat this crime? Often when we talk about crime, it is about shootings and blasts, that is to say, such serious and terrible crimes to be combated, but this is actually also a form of very serious crime. It is about taking out serious business and benefiting at the expense of taxpayers.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-427	Mr President, I would like to This is crime with cufflinks, you might say. It is a major social problem that is important to attack. Everyone's going to contribute. I usually say everyone is coming, and everyone is also going to contribute to our well-being. The Swedish Tax Agency's review in connection with the so-called Panama leak showed that the Swedish state could raise SEK 400 million only on that particular case, i.e. a number of people. This shows that more can be done. More can be done at national level, but perhaps I believe in European and international cooperation in particular. That is why an exchange of information has also begun globally, where we can see what kind of capital income and financial assets exist in other countries, and that is the way forward. I would say that global, international cooperation is the most important thing to ensure that everyone is involved in paying taxes.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-429	Mr President, I would like to We debate criminal matters and have demonstrated in agreement how the capacity of the Correctional Service is challenged with up to 98 percent overcrowding. Perhaps we do not need to have any further discussion between me and the Left Party. What interests me in this context is that we have an established system within Europe where other European countries will automatically recognise and execute the sentences of foreigners who commit crimes in Sweden. This is something that could be very effective if, in the short term, we want to reduce the pressure on our penal institutions, namely to get the foreigners who commit crimes in Sweden and belong to another EU country to serve the sentence in their own country. That is also the reason why we have an announcement in this report to the government that is aimed at this very point. Every year we have about 3,000 people, foreigners, who are admitted to our prisons. At the same time, it is a declining proportion of foreigners who have their sentences enforced in their home countries. Of the 3 000, 50 people were transferred to their home countries in 2017. Progress is going the wrong way, and that is also why we have this announcement to the government. We must work to get this system, on which we all agree in Europe, that each individual Member State should take greater responsibility for its own citizens, to take effect. My questions to the Left Party are: Do you think that foreigners who commit crimes in Sweden and who belong to another EU country should sit in Swedish prisons, or do you think they should be in prisons in the home countries? And why does the Left Party reserve itself against this announcement when developments are going in the wrong direction?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-433	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party believes that Sweden should comply with Swedish legislation. As you said in your speech, Adam Marttinen, we adopted such legislation that those who are able to serve their sentence in their home country should also be able to do so. We think it is a good piece of legislation and that it should be used. Then there are certain cases where the sentence cannot be served in the country where you are a citizen. Often it has to do with human rights and there is a risk of being executed in the home country, for example. The Left Party reserves its reservations against the announcement because there is already legislation and because announcements are often a blow in the air that SD likes to use.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-436	Mr President, I would like to Which European country executes people? My question was about European cooperation, and I know that there are no executions. But there may be cases where prison standards or other things affect human rights. That it then becomes a more complicated case, I am absolutely prepared to agree. Correctional services bear witness to the fact that there are many other obstacles to this cooperation. It is an administrative problem. Member States may refuse initially, and prisoners in institutions may appeal against the transferees. So there are things to do, and I think that the reservation on this in the report is not exhaustive enough. It states that there is a system in Europe and that everything is working well, and therefore there is no need for an announcement to the government. But in fact, only 50 out of 3 000 foreigners commit crimes in Sweden have their sentences transferred to their home countries for enforcement. In addition, the number of years decreases by year. Since the system came into place in 2015, the number of people whose punishments are carried out in the home countries has fallen. Is it not necessary, therefore, to address an announcement to the government? I really do not understand the attitude of the Left Party on this issue. It reserves the right to move in the wrong direction, and the government has no answer as to why it is going the wrong way or what it is prepared to do about it. The opposition and also the Swedish Democrats individually have exercised that this must become more common, not least in view of the fact that we have an overcrowding in our own institutions. It is unreasonable for foreigners to occupy places in Sweden when we have an established system for this to work in practice within Europe. My question remains. Why does the Left Party reserve itself for a development that is going in the wrong direction?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-442	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like there are thousands of Swedish clients and just long to get into Sweden's institutions, where there are a lot of foreigners who can easily be transferred to other countries, but that the Left Party says no to that. That is not the case, Adam Marttinen. The Left Party reserves its reservations against the announcement that work is under way. We have legislation, and the government is working on it. I think the announcement hysteria in the Committee on Justice is, excuse the choice of words, rather ridiculous. We don't have to work that way; it's possible to work in other ways. We have legislation on European cooperation in order to transfer clients from one institution in one country to another. Much can certainly be improved, and work is under way. When I spoke about people who cannot be moved to where there are other penalties, such as the death penalty, I was referring to countries outside Europe. There is also a problem here. There are therefore foreign citizens who are in Swedish prisons because they cannot be transferred to other prisons, and they should receive a good content in their punishment in Swedish prisons. Adam Marttinen paints a picture that doesn't match. The Left Party stands for its policy. But if you, Adam Marttinen, want to cave down on the issue, it's not a fucking party that's not in the government you're supposed to ask. I suppose you should ask the government.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-448	Mr President, I would like to A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law be prosecuted and punished. Man is a moral being who is always responsible for dealing with what is right and what is wrong. It is therefore important that society's legal system imposes punishment when a crime occurs. Anyone who is convicted and has taken his punishment has paid for his crime and is given a chance to re-enter society in the eyes of others as a responsible person. The time when the sentence is served shall be used in a meaningful way by means of actions that enable a life without crime. Treatment against alcohol and drug abuse, education and work training should be provided. The release must be prepared in good time. In order to avoid relapses, the frivolous person should be helped to obtain housing, work or other useful employment. It is also important for the social network to be strengthened. Investing in prison should be seen as a way of reducing crime in the future. The Christian Democrats' message is that Sweden needs to combat an increasingly complex crime. Sweden has for a long time had a growing problem with different types of crime and a decreasing ability to deal with it. The current government period is an example of insufficient force being taken. The number of police officers is falling at the same time as parallel communities are emerging, and the most serious crime, such as sex crimes and killings, is reaching record levels. During today's debate, we have heard what happened just a few days ago. This needs to be addressed. We need more police officers and better tools to fight crime, and those sentenced deserve more punishment. This will have consequences for the whole chain of justice, from police, prosecutors and courts to prison. Mr President, I would like to A month ago I made a study visit to Boråsanstalten and then got an insight into the reality described by the Director General of Correctional Services, namely the lack of space. There is overcrowding, which means that inmates must share a room. We can all think about what this can bring. Overcrowding has caused problems in the past. There have been escapes, riots, escapes and hostage situations. As the number of prisoners in prison is increasing, it is important that the necessary resources be added, which is a priority for us Christian Democrats. Correctional services have a difficult task that will be even more difficult in the future. Prisons can also be an environment in which violent extremism thrives. It is therefore important that we make efforts to counteract this trend. Mr President, I would like to In the area we are now debating, the majority of committees have four announcements. Announcements are a good way for the Justice Committee to push the government. We see the need for action in areas where proposals are not sufficiently comprehensive in time. The announcements concern four areas. One is that the prison service's efforts to prevent relapse should be strengthened. The role of correctional services is double. On the one hand, the sentenced person should serve his or her sentence, and on the other hand, the person who has committed a crime should be given the opportunity and help to return to a normal life without crime. A well-functioning penitentiary system strengthens people's ability to develop their own resources and create a law-abiding life. Getting people to break with a criminal lifestyle is one of the most important crime prevention tasks. Another announcement is about the importance of developing a national exit program for people who want to leave the criminal life. Sweden has serious problems with crimes linked to criminal settlements. Gang crime affects those living in Sweden's vulnerable areas particularly hard, and it must therefore be met with force. For people who want to leave crime behind, there should be adequate support. Therefore, a national exit programme should be introduced for those who want to leave the criminal life. Mr President, I would like to Both I and the committee see a need for a special unit to be set up within the Prison Service to take over responsibility for young people who have committed serious crimes. Correctional services play an important role in strengthening the prevention of relapses in crime, and this applies to both younger and older people. Unfortunately, the efforts of social services are not enough for young people who are completely out of the way of society. This applies, among other things, to young people who commit serious crimes in gang environments. This group should therefore become the responsibility of the state rather than the municipalities. The aim is not primarily to punish but to take measures that provide better opportunities for success than that of a traditional social service. In addition to these proposals, it has been mentioned that there is a majority in committee to announce that we should increase cooperation with other countries in order to get more foreign citizens to serve sentences in their home country. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the proposals which, according to the committee, are to be approved, I would like to highlight another important area. It is about the need to develop a more thought-out plan for the expansion of the Prison Service and future prison establishments. Recently, attention has been paid to the problem of lack of space in Swedish prisons. The high occupancy endangers the safety of the staff, increases the risk of incidents between inmates and impairs the possibility of rehabilitation. For several years, the Correctional Service has pointed out that different penalties entail higher demands on the Prison Service's activities. In light of this, there is a need to develop a concrete and long-term plan for the expansion of the Prison Service and future prison establishment. Mr President, I would like to The allocation of resources to the Prison Service is important. I can only note that we in the committee have debated – the issue was also raised during the Prime Minister's Question Time – that the Prison Service receives more money but at the expense of the police. The investment that is based on the M-KD budget, with the addition of funds to the police and the prison, is now getting a change that means that the Prison Service does get more money but that those who pay are the police. We can say here that the political opposition takes cheap points. However, I think that when the chief of police also expresses concern and the fact that costs remain, we do not solve the problems by moving around in the budget. We need to take proper action so that the Prison Service gets the funds needed for the needs that exist. It is a bit skewed to compare the budget presented last autumn with the spring budget now presented by the current ruling coalition. There may be something more relevant to compare. Anyone waiting for something good may see something more. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support the declarations approved by the committee and the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for time-winning, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation No 19.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-470	Mr President, I would like to The role of correctional services is double. On the one hand, the sentenced person shall serve his or her sentence and, on the other hand, he or she shall be given the opportunity and assistance to return to a normal life without crime. A well-functioning penitentiary system strengthens people's ability to develop their own resources and create a law-abiding life. Getting people to break with a criminal lifestyle is therefore one of the most important crime prevention tasks. It goes without saying that we agree with the fact that the work of the Prison Service to prevent relapses in crime should be strengthened. It feels like it's the whole basic idea of the Prison Service's work. Rather, though, we should consider why this work has not been in place since before. During my time as a politician, I have not met prisoners, but I have worked with many young people who have been in prison. I have met them on the basis of the role I played in my work as national coordinator against honour-related violence. I have asked mainly young guys and also girls how they see the time they have spent in the Prison Service. When they come out of the Prison Service at over 20 years of age, the picture they give is that their life is over. It does not matter what they do because there will be no change. You should have been there when they were four or five years old. There began the violence at their home. They had problems at school, and early they felt that they were not able to cope with the training. Likewise, it has been in their neighborhood where they have grown up. But the interesting thing is that once convicted, many of them have received efforts to deal with their aggressive behavior, but the mission to harm their sister is often not about their aggression but about coercion from others. When the environment sees it as an advantage if a young person changes his behaviour, there are conditions for these young guys. Many of the young guys wonder what happens when they come home and tell the family that they understand that what the family forced them to do was wrong. Then they wonder how they are accepted into the family. The committee has a special announcement that a special unit within the Prison Service will focus on young people. I believe that this work could be developed to really understand these young people even within the Prison Service. I have also met young girls who, due to lack of effort, have had to leave their families and end up in vulnerability, abuse and crime. When they go to prison, they feel free for the first time. It's been the first time they haven't been afraid because they know that no one in the family can get to them there. It is a sad reality, but it is also an opportunity. There the girls have got a chance thanks to a good contact between them and the Prison Service, who can understand the girls. We from the Liberals have supported the Left Party's motion to strengthen the perspective of children's rights, i.e. to commission the Victims' Agency to look at children whose guardians are convicted. I've been to prison. I am chairman of Bufff – Children and youth with parent/family member in prison. I have experienced children crying when we go in and go out of the prison, not only because it is a difficult situation to leave a parent in prison but also because of the treatment the children get where they feel almost guilty. It is important to understand how it feels for a child to have a convicted guardian. I've also been to prison with children who don't want to see their guardian. We have discussed that it is not appropriate. It is important to see that there may be major differences. On one occasion, I received a call from an employee of the Prison Service who was in despair, who told me that when the child came in, the child peed on her as soon as it saw the father. Nevertheless, social services had found it obvious that the father would have the right to see his child. In addition to the fact that the Prison Service needs to gain increased knowledge in dealing with children, resources must also be spent on municipalities. These are secrets that children are forced to carry in their solitude. These are secrets they learn not to talk to anyone about. When the guardian outside the prison protests, it also has consequences. I will never forget the mother who refused to release her child from the women's shelter. The boy had seen her nearly beaten to death. Yet, social services judged that the boy, along with strangers, would visit the father while he was in prison. We held the boy. We didn't let him go out. Eventually, however, police hands were pulled and the boy was taken with him. When the boy came back it took a week and then he had lost all the hair of the shock. He never got his hair back. We know that for children who grow up in environments where there is crime and vulnerability, there is also a risk factor for them to end up in crime. When we discuss these issues, we need to look at the overall perspective of understanding what action is needed. Take, for example, the young guys in an institution who want to meet a curator, but there is no one. They get to meet a priest or an imam. That is what is available. Regardless of what efforts are being made, whether they are overcrowdings or so on, we must be serious. We Liberals believe that when it comes to the young people who are convicted of a crime for the first time – many of them have committed crimes in the past but have not been convicted of them – it is important to remember that they will not change their behaviour unless they have the opportunity to change. We Liberals, as we often do, are in favour of a left-wing motion. We therefore call for the approval of reservation 16 in the report. Of course, we also support our second reservation and the committee's other proposals for a decision in the report.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-488	Mr President, I would like to There is usually no speech without the Liberals talking about Europe. I think this was the first time we did not hear the Liberals appeal to the EU's superpower to solve Sweden's problems. In the past, it has been about the supranational prosecutor's office – a cane horse in the Committee on Justice, where the Liberals have been fenced long and well. We have differences of opinion on this issue. But as far as the prison capacity in Sweden is concerned, it is widely acknowledged in this House that it is strained to the breaking point. This is, of course, linked to the previous budgetary efforts that the Liberals have partly contributed to by not constituting a proper opposition as the Swedish Democrats have done. The search for funds for the Prison Service was, like political news for most parties last year. Several years ago, the previous parliamentary term, we had to see increases in funding for the Prison Service to meet the developments we are seeing today. My question to an EU-friendly party such as the Liberals, who often appeal to the EU's power or the EU's ability to cooperate, is: Can the Liberals consider, in principle, supporting the Swedish Democrats' proposal to rent prison places in other European countries? That's how Norway tackled its hump of overcrowding in prisons. Other European countries have also made use of the model, in this case in cooperation with the Netherlands. Today, the Swedish Democrats have presented a strong budget effort to rent prison places in other countries in Europe to deal with the situation we are seeing in Sweden today with overcrowding and the violence that it can entail for both inmates and staff in our institutions. Can the Liberals, in principle, as an EU-friendly party, think of some form of coordination of Europe's collective prison capacity to solve Sweden's problems of overcrowding?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-494	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Adam. When it comes to Europe, you are absolutely right – we believe in cooperation. We do not believe in supranationality, but we think that this will benefit us all. I was asked whether we could possibly have places in other countries. Of course it's something you have to look at. Here and now, I'm not saying yes or no. I have not yet become so much a politician that I am talking about what I cannot, so I can say that I do not have enough knowledge. But, of course, it is an issue in a pragmatic way of thinking. On the other hand, it has been heard that it has been quite costly to have these places. The Swedish democrats do not like that we pay expensive money to Europe, so we have to think about that. Perhaps we should use the money that this would cost beyond what it would cost to handle it at home to develop our own penitentiary and those places. I am also thinking of what you yourself put forward in the line shift with Linda Westerlund Snecker. We may have to start by pursuing what we have decided on those foreign citizens who could serve their sentence in another European country. We can start by sorting out that part and using that money to expand. But I'm a pragmatist. Of course, this proposal is something we must at least look at.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-499	Mr President, I would like to My question was not set to conflict in any way but to aim ahead. What can we do in the future to resolve the emergency situation that the Red-Green Government has a great responsibility for Sweden's entry into? It is, as I said, overcrowding in our prisons. It can have serious consequences, as has been highlighted by several parties in the debate. I am pleased that the Liberals have chosen to join in the announcement contained in the report to direct a mission to the government to begin work to ensure that the cooperation agreements that exist within Europe are also respected by all countries. As I have noted, we have 3 000 foreigners in prisons, that is, one third of those admitted. 50 of them are punished in their own countries. It's far from satisfying. It is therefore gratifying that the Liberals choose to join the conservative opposition on the particular issue. Of course, this does not offer any guarantees. Even if Sweden were to start active work, there is no guarantee that the system will start to work. As you know, European solutions can be complicated, and sometimes you can push your forehead bloody without having any significant results. What has worked, on the other hand, is renting prison places. An agreement will then be signed between two different countries, and an existing solution will be found in place quite quickly. My call to the pro-European party is to take this to the work bench and to the next parliamentary year's exercise flood. We must bring together a majority of committees, including the Liberals, for a proposal to rent prison places in other countries. I believe this is a way forward to remedy the acute overcrowding.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-504	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I have much more to add to the discussion or the debate. But I think we are a pragmatic party. Of course we should look at this. We will use Europe wherever possible – but not at any expense. Above all, it is just patching and fixing instead of tackling the actual problem. First of all, we will ensure that those who are not Swedish citizens and can serve their sentences in their home countries also do so. We will expand so that we have the necessary capacity. But of course we don't lock up. I would like to say this: we do not support conservative solutions, but we support pragmatic ideas, no matter who chooses to highlight them.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-508	Mr President, I would like to "It's perhaps the best slogan a Swedish authority or municipality has. It is the slogan of the Prison Service, and the two words describe in a concise way what the mission means: that the person who comes out of prison should be better on the other side, more adapted to a normal life than when it came in. Earlier today, we debated an authority on the same spectrum, the Police Authority, which is facing many difficulties. The authority we are discussing here, the Prison Service, also has a difficult mission. It detains people and keeps them locked up, and it has been given a more difficult assignment in the sense that more and more people are locked up. When the penalties are tightened, as has happened for a long series of crimes, more will be in prison for a longer period of time. This, of course, has direct consequences for the Prison Service. Every day in jail or in prison costs several thousand crowns. But it is not just an economic issue — far from it. It's a matter of place, physically. We usually talk about the principle of financing in many contexts. When the Riksdag decides on changes in different areas, it also injects money. When you give municipalities increased responsibility according to law, you also spend money for them to do it. In this regard, the Prison Service has not been given a list over time in the way it might have been supposed to have. You need additional resources when you get extended assignments. The prisons and prisons are now overcrowded. Most of us who sit in committee have certainly seen the statistics but also made visits to detention centres or prisons and seen what it looks like in fact. Those on the ground in the various activities may conjure their knees, and there are not least safety aspects to be taken into account. After all, they are convicted people you work with. The fact that it looks like this follows an international trend. Sweden is far from alone in having done penalties for different types of crimes. The consequences are also similar: More people end up in prison for longer. Some time ago, the Prosecutor General presented a public investigation about the so-called penalty reduction for young adults. The Attorney General's mission was to propose its abolition. Of course, one can discuss whether it is right or wrong, but whatever the case, we can agree that abolition would have major consequences. At a time when the Correctional Service is under great pressure and overcrowding, the task of rehabilitating and improving the way out will be made more difficult, especially in the case of young adults. We must have this with us, for this applies not least to young adults or children of criminal age who have committed crimes. In order not to get caught up in crime and engage in it throughout your adult life, you need support. You have to get basic qualifications and upper secondary education to have a sensible chance of coping with an honest life where you support yourself with a regular job. Finally, Mr President, we must all bear in mind that, if we are to cope with the situation through better penitentiary and not as fully as we do today, we will need more institutions. They must be somewhere. In the existing locations, the operation often works well, but when new detention centres or prisons are to be built, there is often resistance locally. It is on everyone's responsibility to realise that if we want increased capacity, the institutions must be physically located somewhere. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 21.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-518	Mr President, I would like to On criminal matters, we have repeated here a few times that the situation of overcrowding in our institutions is almost alarming. We have an announcement to the government in this report. It is perhaps a little unclear what the outcome will be in this Chamber in about 20 minutes. The announcement is that the government must take active action to implement the intention of cooperation between European countries to ensure that foreigners from other European countries are punished in their respective countries. This work must begin urgently. As I said earlier in the debate, some 3 000 people were enrolled in the previous year, of which about 50 have been punished in their own countries. This is a development which, moreover, has gone in the wrong direction. In previous years, more foreigners convicted in Sweden have been punished in other countries. Now that the Red-Green Government is in power and everything is going in the wrong direction, we are making an announcement for a reason. We are not doing it out of the dark because we want to be messy in Parliament, but it is about the development going in the wrong direction. I wonder how Rasmus Ling, as a representative of the government, feels that a reservation is justified in the light of our announcement on enforcement in his own home countries.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-522	Mr President, I would like to Well, it's actually about unkindness when you put forward announcements about things that are obviously already going on and on their way. Then you can't actually call it anything else. In general, I and my party think that it is good that we cooperate in Europe, unlike the Adam Marttinen party, which does not want Sweden to be in the EU at all. Of course, this is also a good thing in the area of penitentiary. When it comes to people who have been sentenced to prison sentences and served sentences to live and work in another country, where they have their citizenship, it is great if it can be solved so that they can serve the sentence in that country. I don't think there's any difference there. What is at issue here, however, is that it is repeatedly – it is not just in this case, but this is a pattern we see – making announcements even though it is known that things are going to happen and that work is going on at the Government Office. I may find it regrettable that this is the way in which Parliament is handled.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-525	Mr President, I would like to I note that Rasmus Ling, the representatives of the government parties, thinks that we in Parliament should be pleased that developments are going in the wrong direction. As I said in my first reply, we have had a development in which fewer people get their sentences enforced in their home countries, despite the passing of the years. In view of the fact that we have overcrowding in our institutions, this is a remarkable development. We have seen these developments for several years, not just from the previous year to this year. It has been going on for four consecutive five years, from the adoption of the EU cooperation agreement in 2015. Developments have been going in the wrong direction year after year. Member Rasmus Ling claims that work is under way on this within the Government Office. What's going on is that things are going the wrong way. Fewer people are punished in their own countries. It is clear that we in Parliament should not be satisfied with this development, and it is obvious that the Riksdag should urge the Government to do what is expected – especially in view of the fact that we have overcrowding in our institutions and that very serious situations can arise there as a result. This work cannot be pulled on a long bench for another year. This must be a matter of urgency for the government to function better. As I said, 3 000 foreigners are admitted to Swedish institutions, and 50 people have had their sentences enforced in their home countries. This is far from satisfactory, and a declaration to the government on this matter is fully justified.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-529	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased with the newly awakened interest in the overcrowdings within the Swedish Correctional Service by the Swedish Democrats. The overcrowding is due not only to the fact that the penalties have been tightened up in a wide range of areas, but also to the fact that we have not built new prisons. In those places where Correctional Services have actually wanted to build new capacity – in southern Sweden, in Svedala, Skåne – the Swedish Democrats have opposed this all they have been able to. They have threatened to appeal, set up protest groups and so on. Where, Adam Marttinen, have the Swedish Democrats worked to establish some prison to build the capacity needed?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-531	Mr President, I would like to Health is physical, mental and social well-being. Good health is a broad definition, and each person is unique. Well-being is both a general goal for the population and something that each individual should be able to feel. Health care has the task of both working as a health promoter and providing good care when I have become ill. Social services are also there and aim to promote people's economic and social security, provide conditions for equality in living conditions and enable active participation in society. Civil society also contributes to well-being and good health. Generally speaking, we feel quite well in Sweden. We have good public health and it has improved over the years. But mental health has not improved; it has deteriorated. These can be problems such as anxiety, sleeping difficulties, depression or anxiety – problems that affect my life for a short period of time and some of which pass by themselves. But it can also be trouble that leads to lifelong illness and changes my whole life – troubles that I need continuous help to cope with. Approximately one in three persons in the waiting room of the health centre is looking for some form of mental illness. WHO states that mental illness is one of the biggest and fastest growing challenges for public health as a whole. It is therefore a social issue to face mental illness. It affects young people, it affects the middle of life and it affects the one who is rich in years. Sustained and coordinated assistance to those with mental illness or mental illness is an integral part of the well-being. It is part of the core of well-being, and you should get part of it no matter who you are and where you live. Preventing mental illness is a future investment that we cannot afford not to do. We in the Committee on Social Affairs have chosen to make mental health issues our own area when we debate the motions written last autumn. There is reason for the whole policy to make mental illness our own area where we agree on goals and strategies, so that we can be sustained in what we do. The Christian Democrats support all their reservations, but for time to come, I am only calling for reservation 4 under paragraph 2. We know some things, but together we know too little about why mental illness is increasing. If we are to succeed in working health promotion and disease prevention, we need to know more about the causes. That is why we Christian Democrats have proposed it. I think it's important to fill in the knowledge and find out what we can about health and ill health. We need to see it as the social issue that it is. Then the measures will also be better. Mr President, I would like to One area in which all parties in the committee have agreed concerns co-morbidity. It is about people who have both addiction and other mental illness. Living with addiction problems is living with a disease. It is not a question of character, but a disease of dependence which requires coordinated action by competent staff. The same applies to other severe mental illness. So for some people it's co-morbidity– you have both of these or maybe even more diseases– that you live with. It is a very vulnerable situation in which we, from the public sphere, are not always able to provide the necessary assistance. We find it difficult to provide support and treatment that goes hand in hand, despite many efforts that sometimes go on for a long time. Instead, for many people with social illness, there is a balling between activities and principals. No one takes overall responsibility, and it becomes a patchwork of efforts – a patchwork that does not stick together. Sometimes it has more holes than notes. We need many added efforts. They will look different for different people because the needs are unique, but the common thing for all is that the efforts should be linked together. Today there is a great risk that there will be a hole in the patchwork. There's a risk of falling through. Sometimes the hole has become so big that you fall through even if you put a big nice note in the hole. If the note is not connected with the rest, it is not enough. The committee has agreed that the issue of co-morbidity is very urgent and that dual headship needs to be changed. It should be a principal who is responsible for the care of people suffering from both addiction and mental illness. It's an important step, but is that enough? No, not at all. Much more is needed for us to succeed better and to provide good care, support and treatment to people with co-morbidity. However, I do not think it is responsible to leave the dual headship behind when we know that this is part of the problem. I am pleased that requests from us Christian Democrats and other parties have now been heard and that a united committee is now going to the House with this. In order to reverse the negative development of mental illness, a coordinated good close care is extremely important. Both the ongoing social services investigation and the primary care investigation are important and will have an impact on how we move forward. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by thanking everyone in the committee for their good cooperation. Sometimes we think differently and land in different proposals. Other times we land together. I think it is good that we can do both in committee.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-547	Madam President, I would like The last time I debated mental illness in this House was during the general political debate last autumn. Then I concluded with the words "We Moderates take the increasing mental illness very seriously." (...) There is an urgent need to address the fact that more and more people feel bad. Let's do this together. ..................................................... It is truly gratifying that we are actually doing this together here today. We have two declarations which the committee endorses and which the House therefore approves. Mental ill-health is an area where we need to hook arms across party boundaries and block borders. That is exactly what we are doing here today, and I am proud of that. Forum for Health Policy is a non-profit, independent think tank that aims to inspire and drive development and innovation in health care. A week ago they wrote a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet. I hope that everyone in this House read it. We need a New York plan against mental illness. I was really inspired by the new grip that has been taken to in New York. The mayor has given a commission and sent with SEK 1 billion. For four years, investments will be made in various measures to address mental health problems. Among other things, a total of 250 000 people will be trained in first aid for mental illness. It is also a question of identifying and treating all pregnant mothers with depression, of setting up an organisation with 400 support persons in primary care, and that about a hundred social workers and psychologists have been linked to schools to educate parents in mental health. These are just some of the proposals and initiatives that exist. There are a total of 54 initiatives, and these should of course be closely monitored and evaluated. Why, then, am I telling you about this example from the United States? Well, given the increased mental illness that exists both in the USA and here in Sweden, there is a great need to be inspired to take a holistic approach and have a new thinking. Like the mayor on the other side of the Atlantic, we Moderates believe that there is a great need for a comprehensive approach to the area of mental illness. That is why, Madam President, I would like to endorse Moderates' reservation No 1 on a national strategy for the area of mental illness. We want a national strategy to include, among other things, preventive measures, the reintroduction of the reinforced care guarantee that used to exist in children's and young people's psychiatry, improved conditions for cooperation between different actors, strengthened monitoring and supervision in psychiatry and enhanced cooperation with civil society. I would like to say a few words about the two declarations on which a majority in committee has been able to agree and which we Moderates support. I am pleased that the committee supports what was originally an alliance motion, which proposed strengthening supervision and follow-up in child and youth psychiatry. This is the basis for the first announcement. The high quality of BUP throughout the country is a prerequisite for equal care in children's and young people's psychiatry. The second announcement is particularly important. It is about co-morbidity, i.e. when a person suffers from both mental illness and an addiction disease. For the public, I believe that the major problems of shared headship became well known when Sanne's tragic fate was noticed by the Mission Review last November. It became quite clear that a person who both suffers from mental illness and has an addiction problem needs the help of one and the same actor. That is not the case today. Now the government is tasked with reviewing how co-morbidity can gather with a principal. This is good and really about time. Madam President, I would like My colleague has asked for the approval of Amendment No 4, which is a good thing. If we are ever to succeed in reducing the increasing mental illness, we need more knowledge of why it is increasing so strongly. It is only when we know the reasons for the increase that we can be proactive. And if it is something that I very much hope we will discuss in committee and in this House over the next three and a half years, it is precisely prevention.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-556	Madam President, I would like We don't have a plan. Mental illness is one of the greatest public health challenges of our time, but we have no plan. The political debate has become a squirrel wheel where the same arguments spin. Everyone agrees, and there are ambitions: we must do something. And we do. Over the last ten years, governments have invested more than 10 billion in total to try in various ways to stimulate development in the field of mental health. These are initiatives that have generally been project-focused and short-term, and where government governance has mainly operated through government grants, national coordinators and various kinds of agreements. These were experimental activities, pilot projects, action plans and strategies – short-term and sprawling point interventions with a lack of analytical measures. Isolated problems are observed and will be resolved at the moment. Quarterly politics is a fact, and the squirrel wheel continues to spin. Therefore, it is now high time to reconsider. The complexity of facing the growing mental illness cannot have escaped any politician. Temporary reinforcements are therefore not the solution. The solution is a comprehensive and long-term government governance model, which assumes that mental health is the responsibility of society as a whole and sees the importance of coordinating efforts and working cross-sectorally. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are calling for political consensus, where all parties in the Swedish parliament for dialogue and together lay the foundation for long-term and sustainable work to be able to change direction and meet the great challenge we face. Everyone has a share in the responsibility for further development, and with a concerted effort we can actually make a difference. We have seen examples of the positive effects that political consensus can have as we are now paving the way for reviewing headquarters and legislation on psychiatric care and addiction. It is an extremely important decision, which hopefully can result in coordinated regulation and a modern and diversified law that improves the care and management of people with addiction problems and severe mental illness. To follow Sanne, a young woman with addiction problems and mental ill health, in her individual struggle in the community program Mission review aroused strong feelings in many of us. The consequence was therefore a rapid political action that shows that politics can be pragmatic and that we can gather a majority for good proposals regardless of party affiliation. After all, it gives hope in the otherwise rather cemented and bureaucratic political sphere, where the sender often weighs more heavily than the proposal. Madam President, I would like At the beginning of April, we received new statistics from the National Board of Health and Welfare showing that the prescription of antidepressants continues to increase. The largest percentage increase has been in recent years among children and young people. One in a hundred children between the ages of 10 and 14 had antidepressants prescribed last year. The prescription of antidepressants has increased by as much as 60 per cent among girls and 40 per cent among boys since 2014. This is a development that we cannot accept. Over the past few decades, we have been able to follow a trend towards continued health inequalities and an increase in self-reported mental illness, mainly among children and young people. This is one of the many reasons why mental health must be a priority area, where we also try new approaches and underline the importance of action at all levels of society. The starting point for this is a holistic approach, in which we do not delimit issues of mental illness to a question for psychiatry or social services. We in the Swedish Democrats are behind all our demands, but for time winning I only ask for reservation 14.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-568	Madam President, I would like This report is about an incredibly important area, namely mental illness. However, I was actually going to focus on one of the many things dealt with in the report. It is, of course, about how we treat people with addiction diseases. With this report and with the parliamentary decision that will be taken next week, we are taking a major step forward. Swedish health care is brilliant in many ways. We have treatment results that others just envy us. But precisely in the case of addiction diseases, and especially in the case of those who are addicted to drugs, we have extremely poor results. We are in the penultimate position of a European comparison. There are five times as many drug addicts who die in Sweden compared to the EU average. Only Estonia has worse figures than we have. This is about 1 000, often young, people dying every year. So that's two to three times the number of people killed in traffic. This is due to major shortcomings that we have had in the way we have treated people with addiction diseases. These are large numbers – 1 000 deaths a year. But you should remember that behind every number is a love. It could be about a mother, about a father, about a son or about a daughter. Last year we had a seminar here in Parliament with 32 mothers who had recently published a book- They buried their children. It's a book about women who all lost their children in drug deaths. This is an extremely moving book that is difficult to put down. After reading this book, we understand the extent of the major shortcomings in how we in Sweden treat people who have become ill with a drug addiction. In this book, mothers urge parents to be present with their children in order to detect signs of drug abuse, and they want to dispel all prejudice and taboos about the abuse. But they also want to seriously question the care that we are offering addicts in Sweden today. They write: Many of us feel that the government's view of the addicts is that if an addict dies, it becomes less of a problem. In Sweden, five times as many die as in comparable countries in this disease. Then you can ask yourself why this is the case. Well, it is because, precisely in the case of this disease group, the treatment has been largely governed by political decisions and ideology and not based on science and proven experience. There are, above all, two powerful ideological locks that we have had to fight against. One comes from the 1970s. Then it was said that it is social abuse that is the reason why we have abuse in Sweden and that if we correct the social problems, the abuse will disappear. That is what makes us have this extremely strange order in Sweden that it is not the health care system that is responsible for the treatment of this disease group but the municipal social services. There are virtually no other countries that have opted for this solution. In this report we are now taking a step away from it. The second locking is at least as serious, and it comes from the 1980s. At that time it was thought that if you only have a zero vision and ensure that the drugs disappear completely, this will not be a problem. That is what has led to the repressive policy that we have in Sweden, where we have told people who have fallen into addiction and become ill with addiction diseases: You must stop using drugs. Then your problems will work out. This is what is still being seen in the Swedish debate. This morning, when I looked up the Worker's Sheet and Gefle Dagblad at home, I read what the Moderate Regional Council has said, namely that it is immoral to start special low-threshold clinics for people with addiction diseases. Immortality – five times as many people die because of this in Sweden as in other comparable countries. It is these two ideological locks that have made us absolutely the worst in dealing with this group of people. It is about those people who may be at the bottom of the social ladder and who have been free for everyone to spit on and despise and not to offer the help to which they are entitled. This report is a major step forward, because the committee – a united committee too – is now saying that it will end with shared heads. It is completely unreasonable that addiction diseases, given the co-morbidity that exists, should be treated by different principals. Often mental illness is highlighted as a joint illness. There are figures that between 30 and up 70 percent of all those with an addiction disorder also have another psychiatric diagnosis. But what is then forgotten is the somatic co-morbidity. People who are trapped in an addiction disease also have a large proportion of other somatic diseases. It is therefore a major step forward when the committee chooses to ask the government to come back with proposals in this area. The second major step is for the committee to say that we also need to review the law of coercion. We have three different coercive laws that make it almost a plan for people to fall between the chairs. The third major step, not least, is that it is now a united parliament that says that pharmacological treatment for people with addiction diseases should be available throughout the country. It was not so many years ago that speakers in this pulpit said: A government drug is also drugs, and we should not use taxpayers' money to pay drugs to those who are junkies. Now we take a big step forward, and it feels incredibly nice. This is an important step. My hope now is that the government will respond quickly to this, set up the necessary investigations and ensure that there will be not only an announcement in the Swedish Parliament but that there will also be legislative proposals that will involve concrete changes. However, this is not enough. Further changes will be needed. My hope and that of the Center Party is that this can now be a step towards saying: Even people with addiction diseases are worth treatment based not on political ideology and opinion but on science and proven experience. Because it's this group that's worth it. I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation No 4. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-589	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a splendid speech, Anders W Jonsson! In some matters you can, like, hook your arm and move forward, and that is precisely the kind of question we are going to do. I was totally taken! Resources, empowerment, rapid care and rehabilitation are leading the way – that's what people suffering from different types of mental illness should get, isn't it? That is not the case today. 50% of those treated for addiction also have mental health problems. As Anders said, there have been decades of marginalisation of people with addiction, and specifically of people with addiction and mental illness. This means that this is a group that finds it very difficult to feel hope and faith in the future. Madam President, I would like It is amazing that we have developed these proposals – these expressions of will – together. I have to tell you. When one has seen in round throws a thousand dead addicts, year after year, one must do something. And today's policy of dependence does not correspond to research and evidence. That's exactly what it is. There has also not been enough resources allocated to the care of addiction or psychiatry, Madam President. The cornerstone for meeting mental ill health and addiction is well-being that is jointly funded – and as a left-wing party, of course, I say that there should not be benefits in welfare – but of course also care and treatment based on research and the view that equal health should be given to the people who are furthest away. This has not been the case for the most vulnerable, and it is time for them now. We hope for a rapture specifically in Gävleborg and in other parts of Sweden. We also need a psychiatry that takes responsibility for addiction to mental diagnoses and mental illness. It has not really prevented the psychiatry from doing – it has just not done so, because of an approach in both social services and addiction care. However, legislative changes are not enough. We hope now that there will be a change in the law on the headship, but that will not be enough. There is also a need for a change in attitude towards people with addiction. They should have the right to equal health and efforts based on research, because – and I say this again – that has not been the case. A lot of people have sat and moved around in their own little pot, Madam President, in terms of what types of action it should be. Welfare must reach those who are most vulnerable. We need to prioritise welfare, not tax cuts for those who are best off – I would also like to emphasise that. In 1995, we implemented the psychiatric reform, you know. The intention was for people to go into society. This was all behind, and one has to say that it was a fantastic thought. But there must also be political muscle in this matter, in order to provide adequate care to these people. They need conversations, good housing, social interaction, long-term work and so on. It is a question of giving hope, and that is not the case because all those who were printed out of the institutions are obvious. We believe that empowerment and influence are key words for people who suffer from mental illness and mental illness. It's extremely important that those who seek psychiatric care, whether it's in open ward, locked ward or in primary care, know their rights. We want to develop a catalogue of rights for people seeking treatment for mental illness. For people with mental illness, there needs to be clear and very adequate guidelines, and they should be implemented. That would be good, wouldn't it? The care should be coherent and equivalent around Sweden. It should be in place, Madam President. That is what we have said in our Amendment No 3, which I support. The Psychologist Association states that 33 per cent of Sweden's health centres have neither an employed psychologist nor a care agreement with a private psychologist. They may have curators who have completed stage 2 training and so on, but we think this is quite alarming. This makes access to psychological treatment very unequal. Those who need help today can buy it in town if they have a bit fatter wallet, so to speak – better economy and so on. Then it'll be a class question who gets these calls. If you look into psychiatry today, you can see that it can be so unfortunate that those who have had, for example, psychosis or the like – it is a serious condition – and have been forced for maybe a week to have access to three conversations in psychiatry, this in Stockholm. It's kind of not to fill; you could say that. Then there is also this: Some patients are denied immediate help for acute mental illness such as suicidal thoughts or psychostatus, even though these are life-threatening conditions. This poses great risks to people who feel so bad. We also know today, Madam President, that deep depression can be a fatal disease. We want there to be a review of the care guarantee for psychiatric diagnoses and propose measures to allow those with serious conditions to be admitted directly. That is extremely important, Madam President. There are many stories about people who have not been given urgent help when they really needed it. Many people in the child- and youth-psychiatric activities within the regions feel that their job descriptions are very fuzzy and vague. There are no boundaries between the BUP, child and youth psychiatry, and the other bodies. It also creates an expectation of BUP and what to do with very complex patients. Resources are needed, and those resources may not always exist. We want the government to set up an investigation that presents proposals for how a nationally coordinated care for the most vulnerable and care-demanding children in psychiatry can be designed, Madam President. Because those children are going very badly today. They don't get what they need. I must also take the opportunity to put a question in this Chamber to the new configuration of the government, consisting of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, and the negotiating party of the Liberals and the Center Party. You've removed 90 million, I suppose, from the area of mental illness. Instead, that money has been spent on Pharmacy Production & Laboratories AB in the spring change budget. It goes together, you might think, and I think it was a little strange. But you may have an answer, and it would be wonderful to hear it in that case. Because we were a little surprised. This is a priority area, isn't it? Madam President, I would like We have many reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 3 and to reject the other motions on the matter.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-602	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that every person affected by severe illness needs good care and support to regain his or her own life and freedom. That was no better in the past, Madam President, but we have not done enough yet either. Madam President, I would like Every time I hear people tell me about their lives with mental illness and mental illness, or when I meet someone who is worried about and lives close to someone they like and who is not feeling well, it strikes me how incredibly fragile you get from mental illness. We become very fragile, we humans. At the same time, it strikes me what an incredible difference it can make to get good care and good support where we as patients know who is responsible, who we should ask when we wonder or feel insecure and what we can expect. We Liberals, Madam President, have a number of proposals for just such improvements, which I support. Dependence is not something a person chooses, no more than we can choose not to break the femoral neck or choose to get or not get diabetes or Parkinson's disease. The majority of people affected by addiction, Madam President, also suffer from another underlying disease. Sick people should not be balled around. Sick people should not be pushed like ping-pong balls between municipalities and regions. I want sick people to be treated. It's not harder than that. Therefore, the responsibility for dependent care obviously needs to be transferred to the health care system. This is an important decision we have before us in this House. I am very pleased that this is a joint decision and that we have finally chosen to take this step. I think it means a lot to people. It's a touch of a button for us, but for some people it can change their whole life. I am also pleased that we choose to say precisely that we are whole people, with everything we carry with us in the form of diseases, freshness and loved ones, no matter what disease it is and no matter who we happen to be related to. Of course, this must also apply wherever in the country we live. It is important that the government is given the task of reviewing how drug treatment can be equal wherever we are written. The right medicine can make the whole difference. This applies, of course, to all psychiatric care, not just those relating to addiction but regardless of illness. I remember long ago reading psychiatry and hearing about when a functioning drug was first discovered that, at least reasonably, helped with schizophrenia. The drug was so longed for that it was named after a famous magician and sorcerer, Truxa. I think that's how it can feel to suffer from a very severe mental illness and finally get your help. That is precisely why it is totally unacceptable for some people to meet a magician who can pull a rabbit out of their hat while other people, Madam President, meet a person who has no rabbit to pull up. This depends on where we live. It can't be like that. It can't happen like that. We Liberals do not accept this. That is why I am in favour of our reservation 2, which requires that care should not be a postcode lottery. We want to introduce psychiatric centres that are nationally controlled. We want a national psychiatric initiative. Wherever we live, we should be able to trust that there are no meshes to fall through. The support and good care should be there wherever we are written. For a child, Madam President, mental illness is even more tangible, incomprehensible and distressing than it is for us adults. Children must be given early help, and this, of course, requires early detection. Therefore, it is an important part of the January agreement that student health should be strengthened and that we create a new form of care where patients are more quickly helped with mental illness, before they get even sicker. I am pleased that the agreement means that psychiatry is strengthened and that we are establishing a goal of queue-free child and youth psychiatry, which we must then, of course, work hard to achieve. I am convinced that there is no quick fix – both child and youth psychiatry and school, parents and social services need to be a part of this. There's no easy way to the target. I am also very pleased that the proposals of the Liberals, the Center Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats appear to be being implemented. The quality of child and youth psychiatry must be strengthened by strengthening supervision and monitoring. I think this is a very important key. I would also like us to find out more about why the perceived mental illness is increasing so strongly; it would have made it easier to counter and prevent. But too many parties said no and – so far – too few chose to say yes. It is still nice to be cautiously happy when you talk about something so neglected and serious, Madam President, because it is beginning to move. We have a lot left, but I think that together we can reach a very long way. I also believe that this may be one of the first snowballs and that when it rolls and grows, we will smile when we look at it.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-619	Madam President, I would like Mental ill health can affect us all, whether it's illness, addiction or a too tough social situation or work environment situation. If or when someone is affected, it is important that it can be helped early by doctors, psychologists, curators or other relevant staff. In the media it has been highlighted how people end up between the chairs and not get the care they need but sent back and forth. We have been told how horrendous it can be both for the sufferer and for the loved ones around. Regulatory and regulatory frameworks crash if you have several diseases. It may be that you have both an addiction and an addiction, as well as a mental illness – what we usually call co-morbidity. It can be especially problematic to get the help you need if you have several diseases. The patient is being helped for one disease. The person may feel better after a while and be discharged and sent home, because then the care considers that the person is finished. But then you have not been helped with the other disease. The risk is that the person will again become ill, and then the illness may get even worse. We Social Democrats think that the person who is ill – whether you have the disease through a poor working environment or if you have a mental illness or an addiction – must be helped, regardless of who is responsible. We also know that it is actually possible to hook arms and treat people at the same time. Many people testify that it starts with mental illness, which makes you start your addiction to drugs. Madam President, I would like The government continues its work on the basis of the current mental health strategy. As our report shows, considerable efforts have been made in this area. In 2018, SEK 1.7 billion was allocated for interventions that would go to the area of mental health. What many people forget is that we need to ensure that there are competent staff who can and want to work in student health, psychiatry and substance abuse care. We need to ensure that the staff get the right conditions to do a good job and that it becomes a little more status to work in psychiatry and substance abuse care, whether it is conducted in the municipality, region or county council. We must also dare to look at how the different compensation systems work so that we do the right things – not just what becomes an extra stick in the statistics that can be reported so that you might get a better remuneration for that particular effort. The agreement reached between the Center Party, the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Green Party states that psychiatry and pupil health should be strengthened and that a goal of queue-free child and youth psychiatry should be established. This has also been said by the Swedish Prime Minister in his declaration of government. Psychiatry will also be expanded, and we will investigate a new form of care for patients with mild mental illness. SKL and the state will enter into an agreement on greater government responsibility with increasing resources to, among other things, strengthen student health promotion and preventive work, counteract bullying and make special efforts aimed at risk persons. Sometimes it sounds like nothing is done, but that is not the case. There are good examples of things that are done very well and in the right way, but they are not always the best ones that are highlighted. But, of course, more needs to be done. What must be in focus is that those who suffer and suffer from mental illness should receive the right help and as early as possible. But you have to work more preventively to get more people to have good mental health. Madam President, I would like There is a need for more research, knowledge and understanding, because it increases the possibility of the right care and care as needed. It is not always the sufferer of mental illness who stands at the front of the barricades and cries out for care and help. Many may not even dare to talk about it or seek the care they need, for it is easier to talk about and understand a newly operated condition or a broken leg than to talk about suffering from a mental illness, for whatever reason. Although I think it has improved over time, we all have a responsibility to make it a bit more similar, that we take mental illness and its consequences seriously just as we do with other diseases. Madam President, I would like We have held a seminar in the Riksdag, and I myself have been out in many places where people work for the fullest and in many different ways to improve mental health and help them with mental illness. What is needed is more coordination, more prevention, early intervention and treatments available throughout the country. For us Social Democrats, investment in our common welfare and these things are more important than major tax cuts for already rich people. Finally, while the vote is in order, I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-634	Madam President, I would like I have a modest question to the government representative about the 90 million-dollar savings you Social Democrats have made together with the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party in the area of mental health. I must say, I was a little surprised. It is clearly stated in our amending budget that the money has been added as a capital injection to Pharmacy Production & Laboratories AB. I know, Madam President, that Ann-Ann-Christin has a strained voice now, but I still hope she can respond to what you were thinking with the 90 million.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-636	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the question! I cannot answer the question with 100% certainty. But Karin Rågsjö as well as I had wanted something other than the budget that went through last year. It was so much less money. I am a little unsure if what Karin Rågsjö is asking about is the pot that had not been used before. In order to present a budget with the money needed, money that had not been spent was taken away. I believe, without being 100% certain, that this is the pot you see in the budget. I'd be happy to come back when I double-checked with the government.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-637	Madam President, I would like I think it sounds a little strange that the government and the Social Democrats, which Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg represents, chose to remove the money specifically for combating mental illness, which is a ticking problem, and that the money had not been spent. But, Madam President, I look forward to Mrs Ann-Ann-Christin's response when the vote has come back and the control is done.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-638	Madam President, I would like I think that is a relevant question. Of course I will find out what it is, so that Karin Rågsjö gets a real answer.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-639	I always welcome – as Members know – that both surnames and surnames are used, because that is what has been said.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-642	Madam President, I would like It will shine out of the children's eyes out of curiosity, expectation, desire to learn, of commitment to war and injustice in the world. It ensures a good start in life. 中 These thoughtful words come from a school manager whom I had the pleasure of working with earlier. And yes, it shines out of many children's eyes in school today. Studies from the University of Gothenburg show that students enjoy well or even very well in school, with schoolwork, with their classmates and with the teachers. The result will no doubt surprise many with all the talk about how messy school is, about the lack of respect for teachers and how little students learn. The usual picture of Swedish school today is heavily angled and highly unrefined. Reality is so multifaceted and difficult to portray in a comprehensive, accurate description. But a school in decay is a picture of zeal that neither teachers nor school leaders recognize, because in the midst of all the lively discussions, Madam President, about the shortcomings of the school, we must not forget everything that actually works very well. Students have democratic competence and critical thinking – qualities that certainly cannot be measured on a rating scale from A to F but which form the basis of a democracy. This in no way diminishes those school leaders and teachers who experience hopelessness in their work situation, who are threatened at work or for other reasons feel abandoned. Their voices are indisputably important. But there is a danger when a debate becomes so incredibly polarized that no nuances are allowed anymore. Space must also be given for enthusiastic and visionary voices to be heard, otherwise the image of a failed school risks replacing reality. Madam President, I would like There are problems in school, problems that have unfortunately existed for quite a long time. The PISA 2012 survey showed that Swedish students' knowledge performance has declined alarmingly since 2002, and an alarm report from the OECD came in 2014 that Swedish schools have become increasingly unequal. In 2015, the government appointed a school commission consisting of researchers, school leaders, teachers and other important functions for the school with the mission to identify shortcomings, analyse the causes and develop long-term and sustainable solutions. The Commission has identified worrying weaknesses at system level, such as the lack of responsibility of many school leaders, problems in the learning environment and the lack of conditions for professional development. The most alarming thing, however, is that the Swedish school's proud flagship – all students' equal access to education – has lost control. But despite many shortcomings there are also forces, according to the Commission. Our school system is well-developed from preschool to adult education, the relationships between students and teachers are good and the vast majority of students are happy at school. They have a democratic competence and have very good results in English. The Commission has also presented a range of solutions. It is about everything from strengthened state aid and your focus on teaching to 6 billion per year just for an equal school. My colleague Linus Sköld will develop this more in his speech. The government hasn't crossed its arms. From day one when we took office, resources for the school have been the top priority. Now we see that the knowledge curve is slowly beginning to turn upwards. We see that more teachers have returned to the teaching profession and that the groups of children have become smaller. Today, 28,000 more people work in school than when the Moderates ruled the country. We are proud of that but not entirely satisfied with it. That is why we are now stretching the bow further together with the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals and continuing our hard work. Happily, most of the School Commission's solutions are included in our agreement. Madam President, I would like Teaching children that most basic knowledge requires time is one of the school's most difficult tasks today. It is not done in an instant to decode the alphabet or understand the art of the division. Learning a new language takes time. There are no shortcuts. Endurance, trust between teachers and pupils and high quality teaching that meets students' needs for support and challenges are the very backbone of the work. Add a close collaboration with both the student health care and the parents, because when the students are well, the good results do not usually wait for them. Perhaps the most important key to success is that teachers have more time for teaching. The Government's proposal of 475 million for teachers' assistants who can relieve the burden is an important measure. It is in the meeting between student and teacher that the irregular verb of English should be understood and the logic of quadratic equations made understandable. It is in the meeting between teachers and students that knowledge is processed and takes root. It is in this meeting that the student is seen and confirmed and given the chance to succeed. Research clearly shows, Madam President, that the strongest safeguard for children and young people not to risk becoming addicted, criminalised and unemployed is that they are able to cope with schooling. Then all the good forces need to work together and help each other so that our children and young people can grow in knowledge and education. Madam President, I would like It worries me when many teachers and principals testify to a customer mentality that has emerged among students and parents. Teachers and schools are seen as something you can advertise and replace if you are not satisfied. But school isn't a store. School content is not something that is offered to interested customers in a market. The school is our most important cultural institution with the task of creating the conditions for a community and its development. Such values cannot be traded on a market. If education is reduced to a product in a market and pupils and parents turn into customers, something is significantly lost. It is good that students and parents have the opportunity to change schools, but that does not make them customers. Madam President, I would like One moment we agree across party boundaries to relieve teachers of their duties. At the next moment, we are witnessing how a majority in the Committee on Education places further weight on the burden by means of a proposal to introduce written judgment for all pupils in secondary school. In a paper in the School World at the beginning of April this year, four Huddingee students write the following: Getting reviews that do not affect merit will without a doubt stress those who do not have to worry about a bad judgment while it will be ignored by those students whose problems are to be solved with this rating. ..................................................... We Social Democrats agree with Huddingee students. We do not want any written order reviews either. The teachers' unions and school leaders do not want it, nor does Marcus Samuelsson, professor of pedagogy. He refers to research that shows that if students experience school as a meaningful place to be, most people will want to be there and behave in a reasonable way. Despite criticism from students, teachers and researchers, the bourgeois persist in their belief that a judgment of order is what is required to create security and study in secondary school. There are a number of reasons, Madam President, why we believe that the order reviews should not be introduced: That is why I am in favour of paragraph 24 of the UbU8 report. Finally, Madam President, for us social democrats, a school where all students, regardless of their background, can succeed the cornerstone of strong society. Sweden has previously had one of the most high-performance and equal school systems in the world. That's where we're going again. This requires a focus on knowledge and education, security and study and high expectations of all children. It's supposed to shine out the children's eyes. It should shine with curiosity, anticipation and desire to learn. It will shine with commitment to war and injustice in the world. It should shine out of all children's eyes, regardless of background and upbringing. That glow will make the continued journey of life considerably brighter.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-668	Madam President, I would like At school, the foundation is laid for creating a good life and for realising dreams. Without a functioning schooling and passing grades, it is difficult to make anything out of your life. Today we are discussing three different reports. All three are big reports, so it is difficult to choose what to focus on. The school area is very large. If you form an idea of how Swedish school works based on what you see in the media, it is easy to believe that everything is dark: There is no school that works, and there is trouble everywhere. But that picture doesn't quite add up. Today, the National Board of Education produced a survey showing that nine out of ten teachers actually enjoy schooling. That's not really the picture you get when you read the paper. Thanks to the reforms of the alliance government, the results turned upwards. But we can't be happy with our PISA results today. Unfortunately, the last term of office, the four years, are lost years in the field of school. Everything landed in the School Commission that did not really come up with anything but more investigation proposals. And very little of it has come true. Nevertheless, it is important in the debate also to highlight what is actually working well. There are teachers and students who have a safe and good working environment and schools where students learn what they are supposed to and who actually work well. I would say that is true of the vast majority of schools. Madam President, I would like Another important but very boring subject is the oppression of honour. It is an atrocious phenomenon which, unfortunately, is growing stronger and stronger. There are major problems in different areas. Unfortunately, the world of school is not free from the phenomenon. The media have noted that a number of schools divide their teaching groups based on gender. It is a phenomenon that should end, and quite immediately. There's been an investigation. But it has a broader mission than just looking at this. This means that it will take time before there are any concrete proposals. We believe that it should be resolved much more quickly. You should not be able to divide children based on gender, except if it is done on an educational basis. Then it should also be temporary. It's not something you should do all day in school or on a subject all the time. Action in this area needs to be speeded up. Madam President, I would like In Swedish school today there is a concept that should not exist. When I first heard it, I felt that it did not belong in Swedish school. That's the word. Homesitters. They are students who, for a long time, do not go to school even though they have compulsory schooling or are enrolled in high school. Although it is a voluntary form of schooling, it is serious when students stay at home from that education as well. Cold facts drew attention to the problem quite recently. SCB helped them, and according to their calculations it is about 5 500 students who are sitting at home. It's students who have long-term absences. It is tragic because there are many sad reasons why they are at home. Apart from that, however, it means that they do not receive the education to which they are entitled and need it. There are several reasons why you choose to stay at home. It may be that you do not get the support you need. It could also be bullying. There is more to do to ensure that schools really work with bullying programs that work and that there is research and proven experience behind. The work will also be monitored and evaluated. From a moderate point of view, we want the Swedish National Agency for Education to make another big effort to focus on what is needed and what works, so that schools can feel confident that what they do also makes a difference. At home I have had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Education about quite recently. An investigation has looked at various suggestions about home sitters. Unfortunately, the government did not accept their proposals to a great extent. One issue that was highlighted as important and which has also been highlighted by consultation bodies is national statistics on absenteeism. How do we know that we are doing the right things if we also take a lot of action from the national side to get to grips with the problem but do not follow up on how things are going? We need national statistics to be able to follow up, to find the good examples and to be able to put in action where it does not look good. Madam President, I would like At the end of the last parliamentary term, we visited Moderates who were then sitting in the Education Committee 30 schools, all of which have greatly improved their performance over the last five years. There were a lot of common factors. In the schools that had succeeded well, which had managed to reverse the results, they had, as they put it, every student, every single subject, every year. It was followed closely and action was taken when one saw that things were going in the wrong direction. National tests are an important part of the follow-up. Unfortunately, the government removed a number of national tests last parliamentary term. We think they should be restored. At the same time, it is important to safeguard the working time of teachers. It is also important to ensure that the tests are assessed equally across the country. That's why digital tests that are corrected by someone other than the teachers of the students are an important step along the way. Another tool we would like to see is diagnostic tests. It is about being able to follow developments and that there are national standards for what one should be able to do in different grades. They can be used by teachers to ensure that students get the skills they need. Madam President, I would like The foundation of a good school is good teachers. It is therefore alarming that half of Sweden's teacher trainings were not approved when UKÄ recently reviewed. Another important part is that newly-exposed teachers should get a good start in the profession. Many newly graduated teachers testify to the fact that they feel airborne. They don't get the support they need. Many also leave school in the early years. There are currently writings in the School Act and regulations from the Swedish National Agency for Education about introductions for new teachers. But it obviously doesn't work very well. It is therefore important that we take a look, in order to ensure that all teachers get a good start in their professional lives and, above all, that they choose to stay in the profession. Madam President, I would like When the OECD did its major review of Swedish school in 2014, on behalf of the Alliance government, one of the main points they highlighted was a lack of blame for everyone in our school system. When they asked why things don't look good, they always referred to some other level of the school system. It is serious criticism and criticism that this and the previous government have not really addressed in any way in the proposals they have put forward in the field of school. It is urgent that we once and for all find out who is responsible for what in Swedish school. This can be about the teachers' responsibility, the principal's responsibility, the principal's responsibility or the state's responsibility. We need a school system with clear governance, clarity between different levels and clarity in terms of responsibilities and competences. There must be an end to something else in Swedish school. Another issue highlighted by the OECD in 2014 was that we do not ensure that the best teachers work in schools that have the greatest challenges. It is therefore unfortunate that the government does not ensure that the extra money contained in the M-KD budget, which went through, comes to the schools that need it. In that budget, extra money is allocated to higher salaries for teachers working in vulnerable schools. Unfortunately, they wait for the Swedish National Agency for Education to return with more information on how to handle the remaining funding. But now we're almost in May. The planning for next academic year is in full swing. It will be difficult to get that money next academic year if you are not told quite soon. It's money that's really needed. Not only do we Moderates or Christian Democrats think so. The OECD has also highlighted this. Madam President, I would like The concept of equivalence is widely used in the school debate. What the term actually means is sometimes a little difficult to grasp because it varies a little depending on who debates. For us Moderates it is about all students' right to a good education, with extra support for those who need and properly with challenges for those who need it. More recently, the debate about an equivalent school has been more about having a mixed student base at the school than the quality of the education itself. The equivalence is used as an argument against the free choice of school. If there is anyone who doubts, I can assure you that we Moderates will always stand up for the free choice of school. This does not mean that we think it works perfectly and that there are no things that could be done even better. But we want parents and students to have the opportunity to choose. We will never compromise on that. Without the free choice of school, all pupils would be directed to the school closest to the home. Then the house segregation would take full effect in the schools. We have a unique school system in Sweden. In some parts of Sweden where there are few students, there are not several schools to choose from, but where there is one can choose regardless of the size of the parents' wallet. In other countries, you can pay for better schooling by either paying to go to private school or buying houses in the right area. We want everyone to have the choice, regardless of the size of the parents' wallet. We think it is important to improve information to parents about the possibility of choosing and would like to see an active school choice, i.e. that you as a parent have to make a choice about which school you want to have your children in. Equality must be about quality in education, not what classmates you have. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but since there are very many in these three reports, I would urge the approval of one in each report. I am in favour of reservation No 15 in the report of the Committee on Education and Training 8, reservation No 5 in the UbU9 and reservation No 7 in the UbU10.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-696	Madam President, I would like My line concerns the written order reviews. As I said in my speech, the teachers' unions say no to these, because they know that the ratings will not contribute to security and study. Sweden's student council strongly opposes the proposal and believes that the right students are not reached and that the stress and pressure would increase. Grading researchers believe that the idea is ill-considered and lacks a basic analysis. Nine out of ten principals say that there are preventive measures and other things that are more important than disciplinary measures. A professor of pedagogy calls for criteria and wonders whose standards will determine. Nevertheless, Madam President, Maria Stockhaus and the Moderates persist in introducing a written judgment in high school and high school. Why? Don't Maria Stockhaus and the Moderates trust the profession, that is, teachers and principals, and school students when they say that this will not lead to increased study? What analysis do Maria Stockhaus and the Moderates that the rest of us have missed?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-698	Madam President, I would like We have problems with order in Swedish schools. More measures are needed. Pia Nilsson mentioned in her speech that it is a question of symbolic politics. I would like to say that drawing up a national action plan is also much of a symbolic policy. What happens out in the classrooms and out in the schools is what matters. That is why we must be prepared to test new methods. As far as the profession is concerned, there are different statements of order. For example, there is a study showing that seven out of ten teachers think this is actually a good idea. I think it's worth trying this. It is a matter of doing so in such a way that it does not require long essays from the teachers, but it should be simple forms. This, however, gives students and parents clarity. This will not be the only measure needed to secure security and study. However, according to our analysis, more tools are needed, and this may be worth trying.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-701	Madam President, I would like I have in front of me a record from a Moderate Assembly a very long time ago, namely from 1981. At that time, a proposal was put forward to reinstate the certificate of order, and I even think that a Mayorie on the Moderate's floor said yes. But Britt Mogård, then Minister of School, said a resounding no. She felt that the damage caused by grades of order was so great that they would not be introduced again. It was words and no songs. These words have probably become a little more whispers now and a little strange ones. Maria Stockhaus talks about testing new methods. But such methods already exist, and they are used for the students to whom this should be directed. It's about written reviews in individual study plans. So this is nothing new under the sun. The new thing is that we will not protect the working hours of teachers, as Maria Stockhaus highlighted in her speech. Instead, this will burden teachers even more. We are putting a stone on the burden while at the same time talking about trying to relieve the teachers. As I understand Maria Stockhaus and the Moderates, this becomes a bit like talking to the split tongue. I simply wonder what standards should be left to decide. What's your idea? What criteria should be allowed to govern? And above all: What qualities should be accepted as non-obtrusive, i.e. properties which, so to speak, must not cause anxiety in the classroom and which must not burden students and security? Is it, for example, openly questioning a teacher? Or what are you thinking about?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-705	Madam President, I would like What Britt Mogård talked about was a certificate of order. That is quite different from this proposal. We are talking about a judgment of order that should not be part of the final grade. But it should give a clear signal to parents and students about how the student behaves in the classroom. It's definitely not a judgement about the characteristics of a student, it's about how a student behaves. It's something completely different. Appreciating qualities makes no sense. Moreover, I cannot see that it would in any way belong in Swedish school, and that is not what we are proposing. This is about teachers and principals being given another tool to create security and study in the classroom. I think they're worth getting it, because students have the right to security and study. The clearer we can be, the better. It is also about clarity towards parents, because they must also have these discussions with their children at home. There may be parents who do not come to development discussions and other things, but then they receive at least this written information and can have a discussion with the children at home. As I said, it is about ratings and not grades, as Britt Mogård talked about. It's definitely not about writing a review of the characteristics of a student but about writing a review of how the student behaves in the classroom. I think we should leave it to the profession to discuss what kind of behavior to address. It can be about taking your books with you or keeping quiet when the teacher has his review. I think that the profession can better determine what behaviour you want to include in the order reviews.
i-BwbDn4ZCmHVGmNiZKYAzNm	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats naturally agree with all our reservations, but for the time to come I only call for reservations No. 12 in UbU8, No. 29 in UbU9 and No. 13 in UbU10. I would like to start by saying that we are politicians here in Parliament, and I think we have a responsibility to care for and improve for Swedish citizens. This means that we sometimes have to talk about boring things where there is potential for improvement. The Swedish school has, for a long period of time, experienced a constant decline in school results, except for a minor upsurge, compared with other OECD countries. Sweden has long had a tradition of being a country with a high level of education in relation to other competing countries, but this has been sidelined in recent decades. That, of course, is not good. We should remember that a large part of Sweden's prosperity is due to a well-educated population. So this goes hand in hand. Thanks to many talented teachers, principals and other school staff, it works well in many schools, where many students do their best and get well educated. Unfortunately, this is not always enough in other schools, where the problems are great and the school results are very low. Only 84 per cent of those leaving comprehensive school in 2018 achieved upper secondary school qualifications. 16% was therefore unable to do so. This means that almost one student in five has a significantly harder way to reach the goals of their dreams and to get a good introduction to working life. It is even more difficult for the group of students who have immigrated to Sweden during the school years, where the results for upper secondary school qualifications on a varying scale go down to 28 percent. This applies to those who are newly arrived in Sweden. Of course, language, values, norms and segregation play a major role for these students. In other words, they have a huge uphill as they enter our school. The fact that everyone would succeed well in school with this uphill is, of course, very difficult, but we Swedish democrats do not believe that the parties that have ruled Sweden over the past few decades have done enough on this issue. In the long run, it becomes a major problem when we repeatedly fail them and do not give them the opportunity to succeed in their education and in the wider working life. Thousands of youths are sent out in uncertainty each year. This is why we propose a state-run preparation school, where newly arrived students are given the opportunity to prepare for schooling in the Swedish school. Among other things, they learn the Swedish language, social codes and cognitive skills. In this school we also use native speakers who help in learning the Swedish language. The fact that people like today, especially in my municipality of Malmö, more or less directly lock in newly arrived students into the Swedish school is not sustainable. That goes without saying. Although additional resources are added in the form of more funds, more teachers, higher wages, etc., we do not see good enough results for this to continue, especially as this system continues to send out thousands of young people in uncertainty each year. The answer is a preparation school, where you are educated until you are sufficiently prepared to attend the Swedish school and have reasonable opportunities to pass the upper secondary school qualification. This should be a matter of course for all of us. We have more to improve in our school. One in three students admitted to high school does not complete their studies. The reasons for this can be many. Perhaps the wrong direction has simply been chosen. Here we believe that SYV, study and career counselors, can play a major role. By providing better access to guidance, preferably from an early school age in collaboration with teachers, students can get an eye on their dream profession that suits their abilities. Therefore, we are making an effort – perhaps a little modest, but still – of 75 million for this purpose. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to give a blow to further training in vocational upper secondary school or university of applied sciences. There are lots of fine professions where the business community is screaming out for educated people. That's a tip for a lot of people to think about. We would like to see close cooperation between the school and civil society. A concrete proposal from us is to introduce what we call Bunkeflo project 2.0, a model based on a project called Bunkeflo project, which was carried out in my hometown of Malmö in the late 90s. Civil society was invited to organise leisure activities in the fields of exercise and culture for one hour three days a week. One of the effects, in addition to good health, was – although it was not the original idea – that the grades for these students rose by 3 – 5 percent depending on whether it was boys or girls. It was already high-performance students who raised the grades, and you all know how difficult it is to raise a very high grade. In short: The positive effects of this were many, and not all are mentioned here. The only question is, can we be without this? Today, we have a teacher shortage of an estimated 5 000 – 10 000 teachers – the figures vary according to what you read. This is estimated at least to double within a few years. I think we agree on this. Here the governing parties have been too passive for many years and have not listened to the signals they have received. One of the reasons may be the working environment. Many teachers and other school staff testify to major health and safety problems and that there is sometimes pure chaos in school, with pupils constantly fighting, constant violations, threats and violence. You call each other and teachers gender words and so on. Teachers do not dare to reprimand these students, as they themselves risk being abused or threatened with reports by their parents. Fortunately, this is far from happening in all schools, and that is a good thing, but it is happening in enough of them to make it unacceptable. The goal must be that there should be no school at all. Here we advocate, among other things, the reintroduction of written judgments as part of stressing to all parties involved, including parents, the importance of having peace and quiet in our school in order to succeed in educating our students. Study – remember that! In addition to this, we want to introduce on-call classes where very messy students can be moved to get the support of specially trained teachers for some time, who in a strict environment are working to adapt these students to work well in the ordinary school, of course by working with personalised pedagogy. The introduction of on-call classes would benefit these pupils as well as the pupils and teachers they otherwise interfere with in school work – studyo. We also want all principals to support their school staff when they feel compelled to reprimand some students with the powers allowed by the school law – one must of course follow the school law. This is important. Unfortunately, this is not always obvious today, as teachers testify. Nor must it be the case that the Ombudsman for Children and Student Affairs makes his own assessment, as has recently happened. It is part of the child and student ombudsman's mission to always take the student's perspective. Smashing reproving teachers, although the teacher acted within his authority, can never be okay. We would like to see the ombudsman of children and pupils not getting involved in the school order but letting the school law prevail. Perhaps the most important component for creating peace of mind in the classroom, however, is a teacher who, through good leadership, leads his students forward towards good study results. However, a change in teacher training is needed here. Then there is the teacher's salary. Many teachers do not receive the wages they deserve. Of course, you become dissatisfied, and some go to other professions. As a measure, the government has created an opportunity for first teachers with an increased salary. Unfortunately, the municipalities themselves have been left to decide which criteria should apply to this possibility. In many cases, these posts have not been awarded to the best teachers. Sometimes it has happened on other grounds, such as what extra courses you have completed. This does not mean that everything has gone wrong, but we do not want it to go wrong at some point. We in the Swedish Democrats want teachers and vice-chancellors to have a career system based on proven and implemented good educational outcomes, including mentoring where proven experience is passed on and taken advantage of. This means, for example, showing the ability to increase the results in a low-performance class or school. Here we differ from the government's proposal, but we are convinced that our proposal with a career system will increase the attractiveness of being a teacher or principal in the Swedish school. Today's teaching staff must, in several contexts, be relieved of non-teaching duties. Here we propose a major investment of 1 billion for support staff. You heard that the Social Democrats have 470 million. We'll double it a little bit. This includes everything from teaching assistants to IT staff and curators. The aim is to streamline the teaching role to the educational knowledge mission. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that we Swedish democrats are in favour of a return to a state-run school. The fact that municipalities are now principals does not always work well. We would rather see an equal school where all children and young people have good opportunities for successful schooling.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-729	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a rather brief question to Jörgen Grubb of the Swedish Democrats. Does Jörgen Grubb think that the most important thing is to introduce a written judgment or that the most important thing is to have peace and quiet in school?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-730	Madam President, I would like I think we should have peace and quiet in school. A small tool for this to happen is that we introduce written judgments if there is a need for it. It's the headmaster who decides.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-731	Madam President, I would like As Jörgen Grubb from the Swedish Democrats probably knows, it is already possible today to give written reviews to those students who need it and who, for example, do not behave as they should in a classroom and where it is too messy. I wonder: How do Jörgen Grubb and the Swedish Democrats think when they want to burden teachers in high school by adding it to all students? All high school students should get this judgment instead of really pointing it at those who need it. Madam President, I would like I also think: Which teachers should write it? A high school student has a variety of teachers. Who should take responsibility for that? What criteria does Jörgen Grubb and the Swedish Democrats intend to govern this?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-734	Madam President, I would like Pia Nilsson has a very funny rhetoric. I expected to hear something from 1981, when we did not need these grades because we had a school with much more peace and quiet. We believe that we need to have this judgment right now, probably in certain classes in certain schools. It's the headmaster who decides. We'll hand over that opportunity to the headmaster to give it to everyone. Unfortunately, school doesn't look like it did when I was in school. By the time I started school in 1969, the grade had just been abolished. I thought that was good, because it wasn't necessary. It also turned out throughout my school days. I didn't have to. Unfortunately, however, the school has changed over time, and we must live in the present. I don't think it's perfect that we need to have judgements or grades in order. But we need to have this as a tool to get the Swedish school in order. Studying is the most important thing right now. We in our party are committed to studies.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-738	Madam President, I would like There is a lot of talk about state school from the Swedish Democrats and Jörgen Grubb. I'm a little curious to hear what the Swedish Democrats mean by state school, what would be better and how it would happen.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-739	Madam President, I would like First of all, there wasn't much talk. I think I put three lines on it. I could have put more lines on it in my speech. I talked a lot about other things. We believe that a state school will make the Swedish school much more equal. Different school money is distributed in municipalities on different grounds. This is very different in the municipalities. I have quite a lot of experience with it because I have worked in those committees in my municipality. We also believe that when there are problems and disorder in schools you can much easier take over them, create order and make changes by, for example, putting in principals, some special educators and so on. It's hard today. There's a small possibility. There are some schools that have been taken over. But it's a very long process. Then maybe there'll be plenty of time to go all the way to school in between. We do not want any students to fail in Swedish school.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-743	Madam President, I would like I'll start by changing a motion before I proceed. I am in favour of Amendment No 28 in UbU8, so that I do not forget it. I want to get back to how things could get better. When it comes to distributing money in the same way, there is very little evidence that more money or the issue of money is crucial for improving the quality of school. I don't buy that argument, Jörgen Grubb. I would like to hear what is more important than the money? Today it is a shared responsibility with regard to school. Among other things, the state is responsible for the steering documents but also for teacher training. Now UKÄ has come up with an evaluation of the teacher training courses, and half of them fail. In fact, not as many as half of the schools fail when the School Inspectorate does its inspections. The state is falling when it comes to teacher training. Is it going to take over all the other schools too? Would it not be sufficient for the State to carry out the task for which it is primarily responsible, namely teacher training? There are other government agencies. We have Arbetsförmedlingen, the police and Försäkringskassan. I find it very difficult to see that one of the three shows something underneath of a clear and good steering and good results. I still find it very difficult to see what would be better with a state school and how. It's not a small reform we're talking about. It is a large-scale tax exchange that would paralyze Swedish school for a very long time. Everyone would focus on: What does that mean for me, and how does it end in the end? What happens to my service? How much money do we get at this school? That is certainly not what Swedish school needs today.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-748	Madam President, I would like I don't understand what you have so much against a state school. We had a state school before. It worked great. Then we made a reform where we dropped it straight out to the municipalities. It hasn't exactly gotten better. The first thing to look at is: Was one better or is the other worse or better? It's the first wave you have. There's almost the answer to all your questions. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise one point. It is said here that more money means nothing or very little in the Swedish school. I'm saying more money isn't everything. But I have hardly heard anyone say that they have too much money in the Swedish school. It was now a large teacher's association, the School Leaders Association, with the principals who claimed that we needed twice as much money in the Swedish school. There are quite a few who think so. I don't think you can go out to many schools and ask if they want less money and then get the answer: We would like that. Less money for school is probably not a policy we will pursue. On the other hand, we will pursue a policy in which it will be more equal and where money will be given according to the same premise. This does not mean that every school receives exactly the same amount of student money for each student. But that means going under the same criteria throughout our elongated country.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-754	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all our reservations. However, I would like to begin by calling for reservation 10 in paragraph 5 of UbU8, reservation 18 in paragraph 8 of UbU9 and reservation 36 in paragraph 14 of UbU10. I hope it was clear in spite of the many parts. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone who is watching and listening, and not least all teachers, principals and pupils in Sweden's schools! One of the most amazing things about now sitting in Parliament and having the conditions we have is that we can go around at a lot of schools and see what amazing schools are in our elongated country. Maybe it's sometimes not the most beautiful premises I've ever been to. But I've seen teachers and students who have great trust in each other. There's trust where teachers know the principals listen to them. You know that there is a basic trust within the organization so that you are seen and heard as a student. It's the kind of school I want. Unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere. Although much is good in school, a lot is not right. That is, to a large extent, the responsibility of politics, our responsibility. It is not only, but on a large scale. It is largely up to us to change that. In my view and in the opinion of the Center Party, we must start by trusting the school, the principals, the teachers and the students so that we can feel that they trust us. Madam President, I would like First of all, we have to trust the principals. What makes a school good? For all schools that work well, one thing is clear. It is that day-to-day leadership is crucial. It is the principals who lead the way and create the framework. Without a good leader, the rest of the school won't be good. But 80 percent of school leaders say there is a lack of a culture of trust in school. So what can we do? Well, politics must stop telling the principals what tools to use. Instead, we should ensure that they have the toolbox they need and that they decide for themselves how to use it. Therefore, I and the Center Party do not want us to sit in Parliament and decide in detail how the principals should work. While the discussion on order reviews, early ratings, mobile bans and much more has gone high, we from the Center Party have done what we can to ensure that these are tools that are available but not mandatory. It must be up to the principals to decide how to achieve the school's goals. In the same spirit, the Center Party wants to reduce the state's detailed governance through a general state subsidy earmarked for the school rather than a host of targeted state subsidies, as we have today. The targeted state grants benefit first and foremost large principals, my municipality for example, who have more routine and resources to apply for the money. Through a jointly large targeted state grant, the money can go to the efforts that the Vice-Chancellors see need to be prioritised instead of us politicians in Stockholm stating the details. Madam President, I would like We have to trust the teachers. Trusting teachers means giving them greater powers in the classroom and ensuring less administrative control over their everyday lives. We must trust the teachers and give them the tools they need to act when there is trouble, bullying and harassment at school. If our children are to learn anything, the school must be a safe place of study. However, developments have gone the wrong way. For example, notifications to the Swedish Work Environment Authority about threats and violence at school have nearly doubled in just five years. Therefore, we suggest that the school law be tightened up in order to make it easier for principals to move students who threaten or bully other students. At the same time, teachers must begin to feel confident in acting in the classroom in order to create peace and quiet. This is a lot about political signals and about showing that we stand behind the teachers' right to be able to lift out students who do not act properly in the classroom. In order to give teachers greater opportunities to spend time on teaching in the classroom, the current administrative burden on teachers and school leaders must be reduced. Documentation that does not lead to improvement for students and their learning must be removed. Madam President, I would like We must be able to trust that there are good teachers in the future. We will miss teachers in the future; we already know that. Sweden is expected to lack around 80,000 teachers at different levels within the next 10 to 15 years. It is a potential school policy disaster. So we need to do what we can so that as many as possible can become good teachers and remain as good teachers. That is why we have this as a clear focus in the January agreement. If there are to be good teachers in the future, we must first and foremost have a good teacher education. Training requirements need to be tightened up and admission requirements increased. More teacher-led hours need to be introduced, and the link between theory and practice needs to be strengthened – this is particularly important, because there we have a major problem today. It must be possible for independent actors to start new teacher training when we now have so many teacher training courses that are not good enough. It must also be made easier and faster for academics to choose the teaching profession. Supplementary education can be shortened and the pace of study increased so that the teaching profession is opened up to more people. The possibility of working at a school and studying at the same time must also be improved. So we can open up to more people to become teachers, because that's what we need. Madam President, I would like Children must be able to trust that they are safe in school and that they are taken seriously. Then we must be able to look after the needs of the individual child and ensure that the children have peace of mind. It is therefore time to implement a national plan for study and safety at school. Students who have threatened or subjected others to violence should be able to switch off or relocate more easily. At the same time, we must make higher demands on the municipal school health care and student health teams, because that is where the big difference is made. It is important that the availability of school nurses, school doctors, counselors and psychologists is good at school all over the country. There is therefore a need for increased interaction between school health care, child care, child and youth psychiatry, youth reception and social services. It is crucial that we can create a safe school. But then we must also realise that the fight against extreme forces must be strengthened. Children and young people who are now at risk of being affected by these forces must be given greater protection. Clearer instructions must be given to teachers on how to handle this, and it must be made clearer to parents what support they can get from school and society when they feel that there is a risk of radicalisation. But sometimes it is home that is the problem. For example, many young people who are subjected to different types of honour-related oppression are prohibited from participating in compulsory school education in a particular area. Here it is absolutely crucial that the school ensures that the school law is complied with. Me and the Center Party also want to raise awareness of how honour repression works around the municipalities. All primary and secondary schools must draw up action plans against honour repression. Madam President, I would like We must also trust the children to know more. We must have high expectations of them, and we must ensure that their knowledge is raised throughout the system. Giving them these opportunities is one of the most important elements for strengthening Sweden. Compared to pupils in other countries and young people in other parts of Europe, Swedish schools have significantly less time for teaching. Here we need to expand time – of course with a focus on central basic knowledge such as Swedish and mathematics – so that students have more time. Madam President, I would like Students must be able to rely on the support they need when they need it. We need more special support in smaller teaching groups, and more resource schools need to be developed. Far too many children today lack the support they need to succeed. It is not least that we need to increase our knowledge of neuropsychiatric disabilities. It's going to be a mandatory part of teacher training, if the Center Party gets what we want. Madam President, I would like Students must also be able to trust that those who want more knowledge and greater challenges can also be supported. Many students actually have a hard time because it's too easy. It's a little weird, but that's the way it is. I'm sure there's a lot of people around here who've had it like that. For example, it should be possible for secondary school students to take courses at upper secondary level in exactly the same way as it should be possible for upper secondary school students to study higher education courses. Increased study pace should be given to students who are more rapidly reaching the knowledge goals. It is not just the weak who should have support. Madam President, I would like Students must be able to rely on the school to prepare them for the world they will live and work in the future. That is why we need to realise that the pace of school digitisation needs to increase. Much is happening, but it is a long way to go until we have a school that prepares the students for the life that they will live after school. That is why we need to introduce a national digital teacher lift and a clear strategy for the digital development of schools. Madam President, I would like Not least, children must be able to trust that wherever they live and from where they come, they have the same right to a good education. There are today large areas in Sweden where the school does not deliver. This is especially true in urban exclusion areas, for example in Malmö, from which I come. There is a real need to step up efforts to ensure equal schooling for all. Many newly arrived students today are not able to reach the goals of school. Several speakers have already highlighted this in an exemplary way. Many students have little or no school experience, and together with poor knowledge of Swedish, it is of course difficult for many to pass the school. Then they must be able to get an intensified schooling, more hours with Swedish and the opportunity to go to school during the summer. It may also apply to extended schooling for those who need it. Then it is also necessary that there be a framework around this that works. That is why we need more career positions in exclusion areas and homework help guarantee and a priority hourly plan for those children who are at risk of not becoming eligible for upper secondary school. We cannot allow today's situation to continue. We see this every day and every year in Malmö: Hundreds of students are thrown out of school without having a future. And it's always in those areas where they already have the worst conditions for growing up. It has to end. It can't go on like this. Finally, Madam President, Sweden's pupils and parents must be able to rely on the state to say when schools do not deliver. We must hit hard on schools that do not deliver, and the School Inspectorate must have more opportunities to close schools that do not. We need to focus more on the schools that are misbehaving and increase the number of unannounced audits. It is an important part of the work. We need to strengthen the quality of supervision and focus on those schools, especially in exclusion areas, where many students do not qualify for upper secondary education. These are the things that the school debate should focus on and not on a pseudo-debate on the order reviews that we have had here today. Today, as a society, we have repeatedly accepted that children go to schools that do not give children a future. And it's almost always in our alienation areas. It is time to put your foot down and make sure this ends. Madam President, I would like Every child should be able to rely on them to go to a good school. It is time for us in this House to deliver.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-783	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by welcoming the committee by saying that I have both a fever and a major pollen allergy. This speech will therefore be kept brief because I have to go home and lie down and rest. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 24, which deals with school reviews, in the UbU8 report. Pia Nilsson from the Social Democrats has argued in an excellent way earlier here in the speaker's chair why we do not need additional legislation that leads to more administration for the teachers and where there is no research evidence that it will lead to any positive change, but I was going to repeat some parts of it. Today, the Swedish National Agency for Education's report on study and safety at school was released. I mention this because the figures go completely against the proposal that the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats intend to vote on. Nine out of ten teachers feel that they are treated with respect and that they enjoy schooling. More than nine out of ten high school teachers find the atmosphere pleasant in most or all classes. Almost the same proportion of respondents consider that there are studies. Of course, threats and violence at school are never acceptable, but the aggressive symbolism of the right in matters of crime and punishment must not guide school policy. You now have the chance! You have the chance to vote next week to actually take on board the reports that exist and not punish teachers and students for simply wanting to pursue a symbolic policy in this area. What happens to students who have different diagnoses or neuropsychiatric disabilities when they introduce this kind of judgment in school? What happens to those students who are often critical of various things mentioned in school, just as they should be based on our curriculum? And what happens to teachers who already feel that they are not enough for the children? It is interesting that one day you talk about that we should fill up with teaching assistants in the Swedish school to relieve the teachers to the second day talk about that we should put more administration on the teachers. I think it's irresponsible. Inequality, disregard for the profession and research, misallocation of resources and a school policy that unfortunately has not focused on the school's democratic mission, which has not protected everyone's equal right to education and knowledge and which prioritises a system where students become goods in a market – that is something we need to tackle in order to address many of these problems. I would like to move on to report 9, in which I support the Left Party's reservation 10 on the reform of the career ladder. It is time for the profession within the Swedish school, the teachers, to have substantial opportunities for professional competence development. As we have seen and as we know, the career reform has divided the teaching staff. Sometimes it is said here in the speaker's chair that career reform has had a fantastic effect and that all the children in the suburbs or working-class areas who need extra help now need to be given more access to this. No! Ask the teachers! The career-step reform has not had that effect. What it has led to, as you know here in Parliament, is that teachers today even call it the last teacher reform. For what happens when you divide the teaching staff on arbitrary grounds and increase the pay gap between the teachers on arbitrary grounds, and then also call them different things within the Swedish school? It is precisely because of this that a career-step reform becomes a final teacher reform. I would like to move on to report 10, which calls for the approval of reservation 20. It's about the free choice of comprehensive school. I think it is time once and for all to talk about the big problem with the Swedish school system – not with the Swedish school but with the Swedish school system. It's about the free choice of comprehensive school. Report after report in recent years has pointed out that free school elections in comprehensive schools have led to greater segregation and even increased the already existing segregation of residents. It has also led to students not meeting to the same extent as before. When we met the Board of Appeal of the School Administration, they told us that in many cases where pupils do not get the school placement they want, parents state as a reason for their appeal that they do not want their children to meet people from a certain background or area. That is why they have wanted to place them in specific areas. I think it is a disaster when we find ourselves in a situation where the children of the worker do not meet the children of the chief doctor or the entrepreneur. I think that a society that takes the school's democratic mission seriously also makes sure to have an equal schooling for everyone where students of different backgrounds meet. To understand why we have this system, we also need to understand that we have different views of what equality means. We also have different views on whether equality is good for our society at all or not. I believe that equality and the mission to democracy are the basis for us to have a safe school and a society that works for everyone and not just for a few. I therefore call for our proposal, which is simply to remove the segregation of the school election system, to remove the unfair queue systems and to establish a system where there is a choice but where there should be specific reasons for it. Some may remain silent on this matter because they do not want to go against parental opinion or anything else. For me, however, it is more important to start from what the profession and research have said in this area. And in order to put an end to the pursuit of profit in our welfare and customer orientation in the Swedish school, we also need to do something about the free choice of schools, which is the basis for the system to continue.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-803	Mr President, I would like to I apologize to Daniel for keeping him in the speaker's seat, but that's part of the game. I would first like to ask a question about the Swedish National Agency for Education's report, which came today, which said that nine out of ten teachers felt satisfied with the work environment. It's great that they're happy. However, 40% of students say that there is no security and education at school, and more action is needed. What measures does Daniel Riazat think should be taken if he thinks that the system reviews are a bad solution to the problem? Then I have another question. Mr President, Daniel Riazat mentioned that he did not want the career reform to exist and that higher wages should not be paid to teachers working in schools with greater challenges. The OECD is very clear in its evaluations, both in the one from 2014 and in the one that came now, with us having to look at how we use resources in the form of teachers in our schools. We have the most experienced teachers in schools with highly educated parents, while we have the most inexperienced and the highest percentage of unauthorized teachers in schools with the greatest challenges. How can we solve this problem if we do not want to use the wage instrument as a way of attracting these teachers? Then I come to the question of the school elections. The possibility of choosing a school makes it possible to choose a school outside the residential area in which you live. We need to be better at informing people that they have the opportunity to choose. However, given that the segregation of residents will take many years to deal with, how can we ensure that immigrant children meet the children of doctors if you are not going to have the opportunity to choose a school in a different area from where you live?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-807	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that immigrant children can also have parents who are chief physicians. I do not really understand that reasoning. However, we have definitely got a class society in Sweden where class and ethnicity have merged because of different things – structural discrimination, a labour market that unfortunately has not worked in the way it should do and an economic policy that disadvantages those who are not doing well. When it comes to order and study, it is very true, just as Maria Stockhaus says, many students who do not know study and safety in the Swedish school. Then we should also remember that not all the problems that exist within the Swedish school walls are created by or started within the Swedish school. Of course, there are problems about study and safety in the Swedish school. The issue we are discussing here today is why everyone in the Swedish school system – all teachers and all students – should be affected by the fact that there are a few problems in terms of study and safety in the Swedish school. This was also confirmed today when the Director-General of the National Agency for Education was on the Education Committee. Then I understand that the Alliance rarely absorbs when different school authorities or research brings out things that go against the Alliance's proposals. In this case, it has been very clear. When it comes to the final teacher reform, or the career stage reform as you call it, it is very clear to me: All teachers should be good teachers. Then we know that there are differences. It is clear that we should have good teachers working around different schools, but that does not mean that we should have a system that divides the teaching staff and that has not led to any evidence-based change.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-812	Mr President, I would like to It is a fact that teachers have received higher salaries, and I think that in itself is something that is valuable with the career service reform. In the municipalities where good criteria for these career positions have been developed, it has worked very well. Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat says that there are a few schools where there are problems with order. 40 percent of the students say in the survey that the Swedish National Agency for Education today presented that there is no security and no study. 40% is almost half. What solution does the Left Party have to the problem of safety and education at school? I want to go back to the question of the school elections. If you do not have the opportunity to choose a school that is not in your own residential area, the housing segregation will take full effect. If you take away the opportunity to choose, children of parents who have a lot of money and can buy a villa in a good area where there is a good school to be able to go to that school while children of parents who may be unemployed or have recently come to Sweden and live on start-up payments and other things will go to schools in our exclusion areas. It is important to use the school elections to break the segregation of residents, which it can do if you make sure to provide everyone with good information. We want an active school election where everyone chooses, and we want to make it clear that this opportunity actually exists for everyone.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-817	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the questions that I will not be able to answer fully in two minutes. When it comes to the career stage reform, we should remember that we have something called the Swedish model in Sweden and that the salary is set by the social partners. In this case, we have gone against the Swedish model. We have simply abandoned it in order to be able, on arbitrary grounds and without any clear criteria, to raise the salary of certain teachers on the basis of what their managers or principals at that particular school have thought. I certainly do not have the image that Maria Stockhaus has that it has worked well. On the contrary, the teachers of all the schools I have visited have complained about this, called it the last teacher reform and said that this has been done on arbitrary grounds. The fact that today there is a pay gap between the teacher who earns the least and the teacher who earns the most about $35,000 a month says something about what this reform has meant. When it comes to security and study, it is about more resources for the Swedish school, about hiring more people in student health and about ensuring that we have a well-functioning school where we focus on knowledge, education and the mission to democracy – an equal school and not a school that segregation and sees the students as goods in a market. If there is a crime, it is obviously up to the authorities and our judiciary to deal with these issues. When it comes to school elections and housing segregation, the problems of housing segregation are not solved by the Swedish school, and neither should they. They are solved by a sustainable housing policy in our country. But what we have seen is that the free school elections to comprehensive school have led to a further increase in housing segregation, and we want to counteract that.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-822	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat talks about that we should not have free choice when it comes to school, which my party and I think sounds great in a way. The fact that all schools are equal sounds amazing. It was like that in my day. I, an old man, did not choose school, but went to the nearest school. It was convenient for parents and good to have friends up close and so on. My question is how do we get equal schools so that we can have that alternative? On some of this point, we are absolutely in agreement. Daniel Riazat refers to a report that we all heard about together today when the Swedish National Agency for Education was visiting and says that the figures in it are fine and that there are no major concerns about studies. I do not know if we listened with the same ears, because it was also said that eight out of ten teachers think that it is good studies for the students. This means that 20% of teachers feel that it is not good to study in their classrooms. What do we do with those students? Shouldn't they get the chance to move on?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-825	Mr President, I would like to We have certainly not listened with the same ears because our values are based on completely different principles. When it comes to the question of studying in the Swedish school, there are problems that we need to address, which I myself mentioned in the previous line shift. What this debate is about is that there are already many tools to tackle the problems. As the National Agency for Education pointed out, the profession and school leaders have said that disciplinary action is not preferable in the first place, because they know, like research, that it will not lead to any improvement. What is needed is that we have a school with enough trained staff to see every student and with a student health system that works – an equal school simply. With regard to the question of the free choice of comprehensive school, I will point out again that there are many measures. First of all, the Swedish Democrats are not in favour of having a different system from the current market system. We do not have to pretend that it is in any other way, because it changed sometime after some dinners with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise in connection with the election. There are a number of measures that can be taken: Abolish the prize hunt, just as you promised the voters before the 2014 elections. Abolish a system that makes students customers and instead sees their right to education and knowledge. I am fighting for us to have a primary state responsibility for the Swedish school, i.e. that the funding should take place state-owned. I want resources to be allocated according to needs and not as it is today. I know that the unions also have many good views on this. So there are many measures. But we should also trust the profession in the Swedish school and not come up with legislative proposals that go completely against what is their reality.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-830	Mr President, I would like to We can start from behind with the last question. We don't need a school election if the schools are equal. That's where the problem is. If they are not equal, you need to change school and go to the school you want to go to. It goes hand in hand. One is a consequence of the other. I hope Daniel Riazat doesn't deny it. My question is: how do we make schools equal? When it comes to resources, it is often the case in municipalities that different amounts of resources are distributed to different schools. The schools mentioned by Daniel are those which receive far more resources than other schools. The most high-performance primary schools usually receive absolutely least school money per pupil. In my hometown, it differs up to 50 percent. That's a lot of money, especially when you take away the fixed costs. Then there is almost twice as much money for a student in a school in, for example, a segregated area. That's what we have today. We are not opposed to having different – absolutely not – but we already have it today. Yet you don't perform as well.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-833	Mr President, I would like to I don't know where in my answer I said it's all about money and resources, so I don't understand at all what the line shift is about. Of course, there are many other things to deal with. It is about leadership, about trusting the profession, about not standing in the parliament of Sweden and blacking out the entire Swedish school, which some tend to do week in and week out, about not painting students as worse and about not saying that we should have good and bad schools but saying that all schools should be equal and equal and that this is our goal. Turning to the question of free school elections, Jörgen Grubb suggests that the Swedish Democrats are in favour of a system where we have good and bad schools. What Jörgen Grubb said was that we do not have an equal school system today – I fully agree with that, and there are many reasons – and that we should therefore have free school choices. But then we'll go back. If we are politicians who take this mission very seriously, we back down in history and see why we do not have an equal school. Then we can see that the free choice of school is one of the reasons. So it is not the other way around. It is not that we had a school that was not equal or equal and that we then set up the free choice of school. On the contrary! We set up a free choice of schools, a market system, a municipalisation and a system where resources are not allocated according to needs to a sufficient extent, and then we got the problems we have with the equivalence and equality of Swedish schools, not the other way round.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-836	Mr President, I would like to Now I have to raise the ambitions of Swedish school here. Good work during illness and everything! I have a question. You've said here, Daniel Riazat, that the students should be able to go to nothing but the local school. In my municipality of residence, which has long been governed by the Social Democrats with the support of the Left Party, we have for many years a school where 30-40 per cent of children are eligible for upper secondary school. Apparently, that school is good enough. You say that those who want to build magnetic schools where children can choose to go with children from the rest of the city are wrong because the children who can go to the school that has 30-40% eligibility must go to it. They should not be allowed to choose another school even if you know that not even half of the children will survive. You say that career services to these schools should not be prioritised, as we want – so that the best teachers come to the schools that need it most. At the same time, you're talking about the prize hunt as a big problem, but you don't have any answers about what to do with the municipal schools that don't deliver results. Now I have heard your beautiful words about a reality that does not really exist: that we have enough teachers and that there is no segregation. But what do you want to do right now to solve the problems of children who, after the summer, are going to school and go there for the first time with their parents and be handed over to a school where even half of their classmates can't make it when they don't get to choose another school?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-840	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. First of all, I want the students, when they come back from summer holidays, not to be reached by the message that their school, or company as it is now called, has gone bankrupt. I think it should be a fundamental principle that we should not have a school system where students do not know from week to week if they can stay in their school, because we as the only country in the world have a system where entrepreneurs, who have nothing to do with our school, can invest our children on the stock exchange. This is one of the things I think is important. When it comes to free school elections, you can read in the Center Party the Left Party motion, where we say that we should have a system where students do not automatically go to the nearest school, but where the catchment areas around our country are converted to get a larger mix of students and a better student composition. This may not work all over the country because segregation does not look the same throughout Sweden, but in most cities it will work just fine. We know that the Swedish National Agency for Education itself has previously come up with ideas about having catchment areas that are a little more varied than today. This is one way to do it. Another way of doing this, combined with this, is once you have a school allocated, that you may want to change school if there are special reasons or profiles for some schools. This should then be done in cooperation with the school leaders and staff at the school so that they know that in one day they do not suddenly lose 50 students. Then I have to ask you a question, Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen. We have the free school elections in Sweden. This can't be changed by any municipality in the country today, so I didn't quite understand when you said you can't choose school. That's what you get in all the municipalities in the country. I don't know if it's just a school or what it's like on that front. You're welcome to answer that.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-845	Mr President, I would like to The situation where you are not allowed to choose a school, Daniel Riazat, was based on the conversation you just had with our colleague Maria Stockhaus that you would not be allowed to choose a school. It was from that context. We have plans to review how the entire electoral system works, because it is needed. There need to be different kinds of perspectives on this. But we do not come from the fact that if we remove freedom of choice today, we can of course in theory review it, according to your model or another model. But it will still be the case that the schools in Malmö, which are among the most problematic schools in Sweden, in relation to getting people to get access and which are located at the bottom, are often municipal. The question is why should we focus on someone who has chosen to start a school that is sought after and that people want to go to. There may be new arrivals who would like to join it. We have several schools in Malmö that many newly arrived families actively choose because of their profile. Why is it so dangerous that they exist at the same time as we have the municipal schools? We have absolutely a lot of amazing municipal schools in Malmö, but we also have schools that really do not succeed. Why is the problem the good private schools, not the municipal schools that do not deliver a schooling that gives children a future? I still do not understand this.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-849	Mr President, I would like to It is a big concern if you as a Member of Parliament, Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen, have not understood that we, as the only country in the world, are experimenting with a school system that, instead of being a school system, has become a market. I find this remarkable. There are many reports that show that pupils who receive higher grades in independent schools, especially those who are profit-making, later fare worse than students who have attended municipal schools when they move on to higher education. There is something to deal with when it comes, for example, to grade inflation, which we know the free choice of schools and the free school reform has led to a large increase in. There are many reports showing this. Yeah, I mean, it's a big problem. The Left Party does not mind that there are actors who are non-profit or cooperative or who are not looking to make a profit but who are actually looking to give all our students their right to knowledge and education, but that is no longer the case. We are no longer living in the decade when the majority were cooperative or were not looking to make a profit. Today, we live in a society where schools are mainly owned by three groups that are on the stock exchange and who totally ignore the progress of our students and whose purpose is to make a profit, just as a company should have as its purpose. It is not enterprise that I object to, but it is that this logic should apply to our children. When it comes to career reform, which I didn't have time to mention before, you asked a question about it. Of course, we should have incentives for teachers to go to all schools. It is not just schools in the suburbs that have problems getting teachers, but it also has schools in the countryside. There we have proposals when, for example, it comes to deducting student loans or the like. There are a number of things to do in that area. But the solution is not to maintain a system that is unequal in order to address the inequality problem in Swedish schools.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-853	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin, for time, by requesting the approval of reservation 20, in paragraph 10, of UbU8, reservation 31, in paragraph 11, of UbU9 and reservation 49, in paragraph 18, of UbU10. Otherwise, of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats. Many different important topics have been dealt with here, and I could say a lot to prolong this debate. But I was going to bring in a new question and talk about reservation 20 in UbU8 about sex and cohabitation education. Mr President, I would like to One might think that sex and cohabitation education in this enlightened time would be something that more or less takes care of itself. But the very fact that research shows that many students are already consuming considerable amounts of pornography underscores the need for objective education of adults with skills and habit of talking about such important and sensitive issues. There are still many teachers who find it difficult to deal with questions about how the body looks and works when it comes to sexuality, which also involves emotional life, the need to be careful of each other, to protect themselves against sexually transmitted diseases and unwanted pregnancies, the right to say no and the right to be respected for who you are and for the sexual orientation you have. In many parts of the country, the school has been working well with the youth clinics over the years, where the skills in this area are available. For example, it may be a matter of study visits to the youth clinic when the students get acquainted with both a gypsy chair and perhaps even try it, as well as various forms of contraception. Overall, the experience has been good. It has been seen how it dedramatises to go to the youth clinic, which in turn makes young people more likely to go there when needed. The Christian Democrats therefore want youth receptions across the country to be involved in sex and cohabitation education. Mr President, I would like to Sport and health is another important area that the Christian Democrats want to upgrade. An important goal is a school that provides students with good and equal opportunities to achieve passed grades. As several speakers have mentioned, research shows that if you have graduated from school with approved grades, it is the main protection factor against future exclusion in the form of unemployment and crime and psychosocial. This is something that Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils have taken on board in their work on a strategy for health. From this perspective, it is remarkable that we still have a school where the proportion of boys who do not complete comprehensive school with passed grades is 3 percentage points lower than for girls. The Bunkeflo project in Malmö has in a school context been able to collect an almost unique amount of research studies. As early as 2012, it was shown that when students get physical activity every day, the differences in grades between boys and girls are evened out – boys are raised to girls' level. In a group involved in the experiment, 96 percent of the students qualified for upper secondary school compared with 89 percent in the control group, which did not get this extra time for daily physical activity. With the great differences that exist today between boys' and girls' ability to reach approved grades, these are spectacular results. It is surprising that legislators and school leaders have not concluded that this is an important issue for equality. Swedish students have less scheduled sports than students in many other European countries. According to the hourly plan a, comprehensive school must have a total of 500 sports hours. That's an average hour and a half a week. Then we should have in the back of our head that the break before and after the sports hour in many schools is not enough for transfer, change and showering. In fact, there will be even less time for sports class. It is true that schools have the opportunity to make changes themselves, both to reduce the number of hours by down to 20 percent of the original and to add more sports classes. But this actually means that there are very large differences across the country and also between municipalities and within the same municipality. It should not be up to each school to make these changes itself, but it should be included in the hourly plan, so that it does not depend on which municipality you live in and which school you go in if you are to get a reasonable number of sports hours. Therefore, the Christian Democrats want to increase the number of sports hours from today's 500 to 700. Mr President, I would like to It is a step in the right direction that the government has gone halfway to meet us and will increase the number of hours of sport and health to 600 for comprehensive school from mid-year onwards. But the Christian Democrats' demand for a total of 700 sports hours is firm, that is to say another 100 hours. We do this by reducing the corresponding number of hours on the student's choice. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, it is necessary to specify how these hours are to be divided between grades. It is also necessary to ensure that the theoretical part of the subject of sport and health does not take over too much time from the necessary physical activity. That's what happens in some schools. The goal in the long term is to give the student sport with physical activity every day. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight some of the proposals made by the Christian Democrats to improve integration and provide new arrivals with better opportunities to enter the labour market. A little as a complement to the discussion about teaching assistants, we suggest in reservation 3 about the teachers' administration, among other things, that newly arrived teachers should be introduced to the Swedish school by taking over some of the teachers' side tasks. It can relieve the teachers and at the same time make it easier for the newly arrived teacher to learn Swedish and get into our Swedish school system. Newly arrived students, especially those who have come to Sweden higher up in their ages, may have the most difficult conditions to pass the school with approved grades. That is why reforms are needed to give them the best possible start. Language is a key to good integration in the new country. Therefore, it needs to be reviewed how newly arrived children and young people receive an increased teaching time in Swedish. This is mentioned in reservation 41. We also want to develop study and career guidance. Every year, more than 100,000 students choose programmes for upper secondary school. Unfortunately, however, many students make decisions with inadequate information. Developing study and career guidance is therefore crucial, so that more students can make safe and informed choices. That is why I am also in favour of reservation 49.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-872	Mr President, I would like to We in the Liberals are, of course, behind all our reservations, but I would particularly like to highlight reservation 11 in UbU8 and reservation 46 in UbU9. The reason why we particularly highlight reservation 11 is about the anti-bullying work of schools. It is with great disappointment that I note that the majority in the Education Committee rejects our call for action programmes based on research and proven experience and for all schools across the country to map the work against bullying, educate staff and introduce procedures on how to deal with bullies but also bullied students. We demand that this be implemented. What the Social Democrats and the government refer to are old initiatives and decisions that were made when we in the alliance government sat at the Ministry of Education. Reference is made to the year 2011. So it has been almost ten years without any new initiatives, and I find this remarkable and regrettable. The National Agency for Education today announced at its presentation in committee that, unfortunately, the proportion of pupils being bullied at school is increasing and that no new directives or mandates have been received from the government in this important area. We promise that we will continue to pursue the government in this area. Otherwise, Mr President, I would like to focus on a specific point in this debate. It is about what we have highlighted in recent months, namely study, safety and peace of mind at school. This applies to students as well as, not least, the staff of the school – teachers and principals. In this debate, it seems that we are hesitant about whether or not this is a problem. Some choose to refer to the Swedish National Agency for Education's report that came today, but I would like to warn against drawing too much change from a study that is extremely small compared to the Swedish School Inspectorate's very extensive report. It is not possible to compare a survey in which 1 500 have been asked with a survey of more than 100 000 per year. That should be taken on board by the entire Committee on Education, Mr President. It is not possible to draw the conclusions that some debaters make from the Swedish National Agency for Education's report. I am not a politician to stand here and tell you only about fun and satisfaction in school, but I am anxious that we address the real problems of order we have in Swedish school. You can criticise our proposals and you can say that you do not share our proposals. But what do you want to do to increase security for the country's students and for the country's teachers and principals? A quarter of the country's teachers say that they have been subjected to threats and violence in the last academic year – a quarter, Mr President! It's very troubling. These figures are also confirmed in another report, namely the Swedish Work Environment Authority's. That is why we had a special debate in this House just over a week ago, Mr President. But suggestions on how to tackle this and how to resolve it are, as usual, reflected in their absence among those who are critical of Liberal policy. As early as April 2018, a majority in the Education Committee agreed that the Riksdag would call on the Government to come back with proposals and investigate the regulatory framework for safety and study, with a focus on tightening up the Education Act and ensuring that measures are taken to facilitate application among teachers, principals and principals. The reason why, on behalf of the Liberals, I asked the National Board of Education to come to the committee today and discuss disciplinary measures was that they stated in their report the following: Vice-Chancellors whom they have asked rarely or never use the disciplinary measures contained in the toolbox. At the same time, we see that the proportion of pupils disturbed in the classroom is increasing and that more teachers report that they are spending more and more of their time maintaining order. We have to admit, Mr President, that we have problems with order in Swedish schools. Because this is real. From the Liberals' side, we're thinking about tightening up the school law. This applies to the chapter on the competences of teachers. That is why we reserve reservation 46 – to make it clear that it is the teacher who decides in the classroom. It is the teacher who will be responsible for the educational element of the teaching. We have no problem with students having some influence, but when it comes to how lessons are posted, how homework and grades are decided etcetera it is the teacher who should make the decisions. Everyone knows, however, that this is an area that is being questioned daily and constantly, not only by pupils but also by the country's parents. As a school politician, I appeal to those parents, Mr President: step up! Show trust, and show respect for the nation's teachers! Today we were also told by the Swedish National Agency for Education that threats and violence against teachers are increasing. In primary school, parents mostly account for what is behind the reports, and in secondary school it is pupils who question and threaten teachers. That is totally unacceptable. We have also called for the Children's and Student's Ombudsmen to be phased out in their current form. Several of the effects we see with the development of classrooms and schools – at teacher level, at Vice-Chancellor level and at municipal or head level – are due to uncertainty, a lack of clarity or an unwillingness. It may also be due to a concern about being reported, as someone has been involved in. That's why you don't want to take action against the mess and deal with these problems. We cannot accept that. Today, we are calling for a response from the Social Democrats: how do you view the school law with regard to violations and teachers' powers? How do you view the role of the Children's and Student's Ombudsman? We believe that the operation worked at the beginning, but that it has today turned into a situation in which claims for damages are made only in so far as they are liable to signal to the teaching staff that even those who intervene within the framework of the law are at risk of being punished in the sense that the principal is to pay compensation. The problem, Mr President, is not just the dossiers that have formally moved on, but the impact of developments that we have seen in the teaching profession. That's why we need not only more resources, government school and order grades in the semester grades, but also order and order in the classroom. It does not matter that there are rules of conduct in all schools if they are not followed and enforced and if respect for teachers does not exist among students – and among parents.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-884	Mr President, I would like to I should really go home and sleep, but I could not help but respond to the almost warlike rhetoric of the speaker's seat. It would definitely not lead to an approved system judgment at school. I would like to ask Roger Haddad why he believes that a teacher in the Swedish school should have to wait to talk about possible order problems until a student's grades are given. The fact is that the school law already today, in Chapter 10. Sections 12 and 13, enable teachers to take these matters up in development discussions and develop an action programme for students in accordance with the School Act and the curriculum. So I wonder: why should the teacher have to wait until the student's grades are given, and put a judgment in that document, instead of being able to do so on a continuous basis, as today – in accordance with existing legislation? I do not really see the logic of this. Is it the idea that in a few weeks' time you will present a proposal to remove development talks and run order reviews, Roger Haddad? Or is the idea just to generally add a little more administration, which will not lead to any change in the Swedish school? I also have another question. When did those who oppose a new proposal have to prove that it is not working? If you put a proposal on Parliament's table as a parliamentary party or coalition, it is your duty to prove that it will actually lead to a change. Give me one single example of research that says that this will lead to a change!
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-888	Mr President, I would like to I would like to inform Daniel Riazat of the Left Party that when they dismantled the state school and carried out the municipalisation in Sweden, it was not preceded by any investigation, and this was not done with regard to the teachers. Political parties sometimes come up with political proposals that they believe in. This is one of our proposals to address the problems of order, as several fellow Members have said, Mr President. Sweden differs in the European Union, even if we include Norway. We have allowed the parliamentary investigation service to look at this, and the majority have some form of order rating or judgment. It is Sweden that departs. This does not conflict with having an everyday dialogue, but this should be more formal. It can be in the form of a number or a letter in connection with the semester grade to sum up the semester, partly towards the student and partly towards the parents. Communication between school and home is also important, and this is a very important signal. Daily dialogue is not enough. Students say in surveys that they want few but clear rules of procedure. They also say that many do not comply with the rules of procedure. We believe that this is another way of drawing attention to the problem. The reason we put the same question to the Left Party is that it is not enough just to say no. You're facing exactly the same problem, but you're turning a blind eye to it. How do you want to solve the order problems? How do you want to solve the problem that it is the working environment that is the strongest contributing factor to teachers leaving the profession and that more students are disturbed by other students? That's six out of ten, according to the School Inspectorate. It's not four out of ten, it's six out of ten. This is very serious, Mr President.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-894	Mr President, I would like to Now Roger Haddad did not really answer my questions, which I did not expect either. When it comes to the question of some teachers experiencing problems and choosing to leave the profession, I would say that there are at least ten additional reasons why this is happening. You cannot select an individual area where you want to conduct populist rhetoric yourself and say that it is only what has led to teachers having left the Swedish school. It should also be said that there were a lot more teachers who left the school during your time, Roger Haddad, and that was because you prioritised tax cuts before investing in the Swedish school. Consider: A student comes with a knife to the school and threatens the teacher. Will that student care that there is a number in the grade document at the end of the semester? If you, Roger Haddad, think that's the case, I'd like to ask you once to just go out to a school and ask the students the question. Make it to any student you want in any school you want in the whole country. You will get the answer: ah, no, it won't affect. ..................................................... I myself have met students who have been in trouble, who have not been given a chance or who have not been seen because there have not been enough staff and who have not had parents who have had the opportunity to be there for them. These students will not be positively affected by adding a number to their grades. They won't care about that grade. What this will lead to is that our teachers, who are already burdened with a lot of administration today since Jan Björklund's time, will get even more administration because of Roger Haddad. You are obliged to answer the teachers: How do you intend to solve the problem of administration? If 10 percent of the teachers feel that there is no study in school, but 100 percent of all will be affected by it, it is you who owe them the answer.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-901	Mr President, I would like to Six out of ten students feel that there is disorder in the classroom and that other students are interfering with their right to education. The Left Party doesn't care. You won't tell them anything. The school is there for the students – not for the Left Party or for the Liberals. With regard to the administrative burden, which the Association of Teachers recently examined, it turned out that the majority of documents are types of documents which are not requested by the State but which the com munities are putting on. In addition, 36% of the documentation that teachers are drawing up today is set up to – as it is said, Mr President – have their backs free. It is done out of fear of authorities such as the School Inspectorate and other school authorities. This is the main problem, not the fact that we are joining some other EU countries or Norway by introducing order ratings, semester ratings or judgement. That is not the problem, but this is not what the Left Party wants to take on board. The student who enters a school with a knife should not go to school – that student should be in prison. If the person is under 18 years of age, it shall be the subject of social services. It is possible that the semester certificate will say nothing, but in the long term it will say something. It is also important that society signals that it is not acceptable to come in and live cowboy in a Swedish school or to walk around with a knife. That is totally unacceptable. If you are a criminal, you should be handed over to the judiciary, but the school must definitely mark when people come in with a knife. Don't ralinate, and don't laugh at this problem! Precisely students who go into schools with a knife is a big problem, which is also visible in the Swedish School Inspectorate's report.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-907	Mr President, I would like to This debate concerns three reports from the Committee on Education with requests from Parliament's general period of exercise last autumn. The reports concern a large number of issues, and the position of the Green Party is reflected in what is stated in our party and committee motions. The conclusions of the reports, which we share with the exception of a reservation in report 8, which I shall return to, are the result of the government policy we have negotiated in order to take as many green steps in Swedish policy as possible. Our motions highlight a number of green priorities. I don't have the opportunity to go through them all deeper, but let me mention some of them anyway. First of all, the Green Party wants to move from unequal sex and cohabitation education to equal sex and consent education. In the Government, we have given a commission to the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop new governance documents for sex and cohabitation that, among other things, clearly highlight issues of honour and consent. We are now awaiting the work of the National Agency for Education. In the January agreement with the Social Democrats, the Centre Party and the Liberals, we have also pushed for all teacher education to provide knowledge of sex and cohabitation. Secondly, we believe that recreation centres need to be strengthened. In government, for the first time, we have given leisure homes their own curriculum through a new chapter in the curriculum. For leisure education to really strengthen all pupils in leisure homes, the groups need to be reduced, and this requires more qualified staff to be employed. This, too, is something we have pushed through in the January agreement and for which we are working. Thirdly, Mr President, the Green Party wants all teachers to gain power over their own development. A professional programme will be set up to link the various wage and training opportunities that exist today. This too is part of the January agreement. Fourthly, we believe that school employees must have the tools and resources to be able to work with all students, regardless of the conditions or functional variation. In some special exercises, we have highlighted how we can continue to work for students with neuropsychiatric disabilities and for special students. Fifthly, we want student health to be strengthened so that it is accessible both to the students and to the teachers who meet a student who needs a different type of support from what the teacher himself can provide. We are now working on legislation to set a minimum level of pupil health for greater equivalence. No student should be without a good pupil health. Sixthly, the Green Party wants the resources of the school to benefit the students. The tax money that you and I give to the school should not be able to disappear to tax havens or in profit distribution. Unfortunately, there is no majority in the Riksdag today in order to explicitly limit the ability of free schools to make profits by law, but we will continue to work both for it and for clearly formulated requirements that strengthen the quality of all schools. School is not a market, nor should it be treated as a market. Seventhly, the State will assume increased responsibility for the funding of the school, as proposed by the School Commission. This can mean either statutory minimum levels of resources for Swedish primary school for education and pupil health or a purely sectoral grant from the state. This is important, and it is urgent. We see that many municipalities are now unfortunately making major cuts in school. It widens the gap between schools and between richer and poorer municipalities. We need an equal school. No matter where in the country you live, which municipality you live in, and which school you go to, the school will deliver. We're gonna have a strong school. Mr President, I would like to After these introductory remarks, I would like to say something more about three issues. The first issue I would like to highlight is the importance of reading. There is no great act of resistance in a time of simple messages, populism and hatred of science than to take on a fact text, be able to understand it and form an opinion of your own or, by all means, read fictionally, take on a story and see the world from a storyteller's perspective. Reading is like fitness. We're talking about reading condition. It needs to be trained, it needs to be maintained and it needs to get started already in young years. For several years, reading in Sweden decreased. Fewer and fewer young people brought with them the knowledge, flow and skill to read and to read with depth and understanding. We seem to have turned that around now. Hard work from teachers and parents and community efforts have led us to see improved results in reading, especially among younger children. But also older children, young people, read more and train their reading condition. But there is still a great inequality in reading. That's why we have to do more. The read-write-count guarantee that the Environmental Party pushed through for preschool and primary school starts to apply as law this summer, and that's good. Schools already have money to make the guarantee a reality, but it also needs to be visible in the classroom. More special teachers will be needed to ensure the full functioning of the guarantee. It is also part of the January agreement to train more special teachers and provide more basic special pedagogy tools for each teacher so that the support can be put in place as early as possible. School libraries are also extremely important here. It is about access to good books for reading at school but also outside of school time. A school library, staffed with a trained librarian, can play a crucial role in finding books that encourage voluntary reading. I would really like to emphasise the importance of librarians here. It is not enough with a number of shelf metres of books. What is important is the competence – the trained librarian. The Green Party wants a plan for all schools to be staffed with librarians. This about reading. The second of the three issues I would like to address specifically concerns digitalisation. Major changes in society come with demands for new knowledge. Digitalisation is such a major change in society. In order to be fully involved and understand the world and how it affects us, we need to understand how modern technology works, how we can use it and how it can affect us. Programming, digital source criticism or reading a digital GPS map are things that the school needs to learn about today. Mr President, I would like to There are a couple of requests in report 10 for Sweden to develop a digitisation strategy for the school, but such a strategy already exists. Here we probably need to go back in history a little, because despite the need for a long time, the alliance government never developed such a strategy. It is first with the Green Party in government that a national digitalisation strategy for the school system now becomes a reality. Such a proposal was presented during the last parliamentary term, and the government and SKL are now working together to make it a reality. You can read more about the digitisation strategy in the report. It assumes that the school should be able to take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation, but also that the challenges of digitalisation should be seen. Of course, it is not obvious that teaching always gets better just because you use digital tools. Sometimes it can actually be just the opposite. Therefore, as expressed in the digitisation strategy, the focus must be on giving teachers the skills and mandate to manage digital tools – seeing when they can contribute and have the power to opt out when they cannot contribute. Furthermore, the school as a whole must have tools to address the difficulties of the digital tools, such as taking responsibility for bullying that takes place on the digital platforms. A particular challenge, as seen in many of the metoo calls made in the school world, is that pornography on the school's computers is used in the abuse of students. It's very serious. But, and this is important, legislation thus leaves no room for schools not to take responsibility for the content of the digital tools they provide for students. The school has an occupational safety and health responsibility, and this also applies to the digital environment. Both the Work Environment Act and the Discrimination Act can be used. Schools need to have digital environments that through filter programs or similar are free from porn. My third point concerns the fact that the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, have supported an announcement that schools should have the right to issue order reviews. This has been up earlier in the debate, and I fully agree with both Pia Nilsson and Daniel Riazat from the Social Democrats and the Left Party that mandatory order reviews are a really bad idea. Teachers need time to work with the students. More paperwork doesn't give that time. To force teachers to sit perhaps at the end of the semester and write notes home to all students about how they have behaved does not solve any problems in the classroom. The students who have behaved – as we have heard earlier in the debate – probably don't need such a note, and those students who pose order problems should be addressed directly when it happens, there and then, not at the end of the semester. Both teachers and principals have clearly and almost unanimously stated that they do not want order reviews. On the contrary, what they express is the need for more time and fewer administrative tasks. But if a school decides independently that it wants to give feedback to each student about how the order has been, you can of course do it today. There is no law or anything else that prohibits such content from being contained in, for example, the individual development plan. Mandatory order reviews do not solve any problems. Instead, we should gather around stopping cuts, continuing to invest in more adults in school, student health, teacher assistants, specialist teachers and other resources, and supporting the schools and municipalities that need support. Mr President, I would like to We need to reduce the administrative workload, invest in teachers and ensure that they have time for their task. That is why I am in favour of paragraph 24 of the UbU8 report and of the committee's proposal for a decision in the three reports.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-938	Mr President, I would like to I love school! I have devoted my entire life of almost 36 years to school, first as a student, then as a nanny, student, teacher, principal and here today as a politician. It's not a coincidence that I think this school is worth my whole life. We have constructed one of the most important foundations of society in the school system that we have gradually built up and made available to everyone, regardless of factors such as gender, class, ethnicity and functional variation. Let me clarify how we can understand education and school as a social component. We have constructed the school as the best tool we as a society have to shape society's own development and future. By deciding that everyone should be educated – both a right and a duty – and how the content, values and, to some extent, the methods of education should look like, in this House, we also decide which should be the lowest common denominator in society, what society's cultural standards should be, and how the adults of the future should relate to each other, to knowledge and to the outside world. It also explains the unbelievably high level of interest in schools and that the reports we are debating today may contain proposals from individual Members on everything from home-knowledge and study guidance to values, school choices and teaching time. The role of schools in the creation of the society of the future is also confirmed to some extent by the fact that school success is, in principle, a vaccine against future social exclusion. Succeeding in school is the single strongest protection factor. Mr President, I would like to We in Sweden have chosen the way to create a school system based on democracy, solidarity, humanism and respect for human rights. It is based on science and knowledge, on the belief that each individual has abilities that she can grow with if she can evolve into her own full potential and on the idea that all children should have an equal education. The fairness that this means does not mean that education should be the same; instead, it should be given on the basis of the need for support, guidance and stimulation that every single child has. We have built the school as a prerequisite for democracy as we know it. We have built the school for the most important opportunity for every person and therefore for our society to grow and develop. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are talking here today about the last four-year period that lost years to school. As I stand here today, I am proud of the way in which the social democratic-led government has invested in school during the past term of office and how we continue to do so. These are, for example, massively expanded resources that are allocated according to needs and are reinforced by targeted efforts on staff density in primary and pupil health. It is about support for those principals who need it best through the reform Collaboration for best school but also on governance issues such as trust reform and the School Commission's proposal for increased equivalence, to take some examples. Mr President, I would like to What if the world turns out the way we talk about it? Let me explain: school research has shown that the expectations placed on a person tend to be met. That's why we're talking about teachers having to have high expectations of their students, principals have high expectations of their employees, principals have high expectations of their principals – yes, you know. This suggests that we should steer with trust and high expectations rather than with mistrust and control. Let's get back to the point: the world will be as we talk about it. When we talk about the world, we express expectations of how people should behave. Expressed expectations tend to be met. I would therefore like to appeal here to all my colleagues in the Chamber and outside, as well as to anyone who might listen to this debate or read the Minutes of it. Think about how you talk about the world! Think about how you talk about school! If it becomes like we are talking about it, I think that many of those who are taking part in this debate today have a lot to think about. Sweden Democrats, Moderates and Christian Democrats talk about students as problems that need to be addressed with harsher grips, order reviews and more control. I can really get scared when I listen to the Swedish Democrats who talk about school as a place where students should be the same. Ideally, they should even be dressed the same way. And if they are not the same, they should be sorted according to how they deviate. What if the world were to be the way they talk about it? Mr President, I would like to Let me paint another picture, a picture of what I think would be a good school: The school should strive to be a living social community that provides security and the will and desire to learn. The school operates in an environment with many sources of knowledge. The aim should be to create the best overall conditions for students' education, thinking and knowledge development. Personal security and self-esteem are established in the home, but even school has an important role to play. Every student has the right to develop in school, to feel the joy of growth and to experience the satisfaction that it brings to make progress and overcome difficulties. ..................................................... This is a direct quote from the curriculum section about the school's mission to be a good environment for development and learning. We need to ensure that the school regains the ability it once had to equalise differences in the different life conditions of students, and I would like to highlight in particular three things that we are particularly convinced of are important: Firstly, pupils from different backgrounds need to meet in school. An all-round social composition remains something we need to strive for. Secondly, resources must be allocated as needed and the state needs to take greater responsibility for it. When I planned this speech, the "Winner skulls" programme rolled in the background. Winner skulls are a competition program where parasporters compete against each other in different branches. On one occasion two participants competed in the shooting. Whoever performed best in that round, and therefore probably had the best opportunity to succeed in the next branch that was archery, had to move forward and stand one meter closer to the painting than his competitor in the next branch. Current resource allocation works roughly in the same way. When students with good chances of succeeding in school bring with them an equal amount of school money as students who have less opportunities, it's like moving the strongest one meter forward and then letting them compete as if they had the same conditions. In a play show on TV, it is not a disaster, but when we really move the strongest students a meter forward, it is simply unfair and counterproductive. Thirdly, the market governance that characterises the school system and reinforces the difference within and between schools and principals and emphases the negative effects of segregation must be changed. Market governance is greatly cherished by bourgeois and Swedish democrats. We want to see how the rules can be changed so that the school can become more compensatory, better for the students and worse for the venture capitalists. We are, as we were for a year ago and as we were in the electoral movement, in favour of a limitation of profits in welfare, although in the January agreement we have agreed not to make any such proposals during this parliamentary term. Mr President, I would like to I love school. Lifelong learning and the opportunity to form and develop through life is what enables people's individual life trips. It is the most important tool we have to build a good democratic society and smooth out differences in people's living conditions. I want us to use that tool wisely so that every student gets equal conditions to feel the joy of growth. That is why I am in favour of our reservation 24 in the UbU8 report and also of the committee's proposal in the UbU8, UbU9 and UbU10 reports.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-958	Mr President, I would like to There are two things here that I have reacted to in particular. I think I could have reacted to a lot of things. In fact, it sounded like we had a revival pastor in the speaker's chair here. Maybe it's like that, too. First of all, what are you Social Democrats doing to ensure that students succeed in school? In my hometown, we have student groups in schools where 40% manage to gain upper secondary school qualifications. 60% can't do it. Thus, thousands of students only go out in one of Sweden's cities without a key rating. What are you doing? You've been in charge of my city. You've been in government for five years. Before that, you were gone for a few years, but before that, you were in charge too. You have had all the balls, all the opportunities to do something for these students who go out in such a great uncertainty. I haven't heard of any big change at all. You must do something drastic, in a positive way, in order for there to be a change. At least I hope we can agree on that. Linus Sköld claims that all students receive the same school allowance. They don't. In more or less all municipalities, even in my municipality of residence, you get very different school money. This depends on different socio-economic conditions, which country you were born in, the parents' educational background and the gender you have. It sometimes distinguishes over 50% in my city from what you get, and it is in high-performance schools that you get the least. Mostly you get in the low-performance schools. We also believe that there must be a discrepancy there – absolutely. But we want to see better results from that effort.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-964	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jörgen Grubb, for the questions! I'll try to answer as best I can. I think I gave a rather clear, albeit summary, summary summary of what I thought were the most important reforms that we have carried out in the last parliamentary term and which we are currently implementing. In addition, in the spring change budget, there is an investment in teaching assistants. I think it's important. It is about improving the conditions for the country's teachers. It can give them better opportunities to prepare and carry out better teaching, which I think will lead to students performing better. However, I would like to highlight in particular the need-driven allocation of resources and that the state should take greater responsibility for differences between the composition of student groups that affect the conditions for providing good teaching. We know that what affects how expensive it is and how resource-intensive it is to organise education for students is about their background. It is about the conditions they have with them from home. The best way to face it is to allocate resources more differently. In Malmö, which is social democratic, it has obviously been understood that there needs to be a discrepancy between the amount of resources you allocate based on what student groups you have. But in other parts of the country, the socio-economic weighting, the one dealing with pupils' backgrounds and the resources provided to schools, has little to do with the composition of the student group. That is why I think it is important that we also look at how those rules can be improved.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-968	Mr President, I would like to It almost feels like Linus Nilsson is joining our proposal for a state school. I may take it a little, but some elements would in any case be government, especially with regard to the division of school money. We do not entirely disagree with regard to school money and that it needs to be distributed differently. But as I explained earlier, there is a foundation that both schools need to pay – rents for premises and so on. When the school grant is distributed with as large a discrepancy as 50 percent, this means that with the variable part, a school receives in principle 100 percent more per pupil per day compared to another school. You do it that way. But it's still not going to be a good output. We still have schools where 60% of students do not succeed. And they're the ones who get the higher school grant. We have to do something for those students to succeed. Now we have the method where we distribute school money with huge differences, and the result is not what we want to see. How much more do you want to take from the other schools? That is what this is about. It's not about new money coming from up in the sky. It's about taking from the other schools. That's what it's all about. Of course, if I were Santa Claus, I would be happy to give out any amount of money, if I had, to any school. I would have loved to have given a lot to schools in remote areas or other low-performance schools. But we have a budget to stay within. You're telling me you're betting on teaching assistants. That's great. I'm really happy about that. But we'll bet more than twice as much as you.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-973	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by questioning the fact that I am being called Linus Nilsson and Revival Pastor and that I am being attributed to be in favour of a nationalisation of the school. What I said was that we need a clearer state responsibility. Let me start with those objections. Let me then go on to say that if one had abstained from voting for tax cuts in the budget of 20 billion for the most wealthy, perhaps one would have had money to distribute according to needs to the schools that need it. I have explained quite well the questions Jörgen Grubb asks about what we want to do to make things better in the country's schools. Let me therefore sum up once again what I think the Swedish Democrats want to do, on the basis of the proposals they have put forward in the report we are debating today. I think that the Swedish Democrats think it is important that students who are going to the same classroom are the same, wear the same clothes and behave in the same way. Ideally, they also come from the same country. If you deviate from it, you should be sorted out of that classroom and go to an on-call school, in a duty school or in a preparation school. And what clothes you wear is something that we as an authority should care about. The other parts that the Swedish Democrats are developing are very repressive. What is not about sorting children according to where they are or how they behave are repressive proposals. It is such that we should have more and earlier grades, that we should have order reviews, that we should enter absence in the final grades, that we should make it a right to reprimand and that we should have a classic list; we should standardize which books children should read.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-978	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by clarifying one thing. When we talk about school order problems, it is not the students who are the problem. It's students' behavior that's the problem. Linus Sköld said that we believe that the students are the problems, Mr President. That's not exactly how we look at it. Mr President, I would like to I have a few questions for Linus Sköld. We have a reservation– I do not remember in which report– dealing with the absence of school. That is a serious problem. According to SCB, 5 500 students are so-called home sitters. It's probably the tip of the iceberg. Unfortunately, there are many students who are not in school for longer or shorter periods. An investigation that has looked at this produced a report called Missing! There were a number of suggestions on how to deal with the problems. Unfortunately, the government has not taken on board many of those proposals. One of the proposals, which was also endorsed by several of the consultation bodies as an important proposal, was national statistics on absenteeism. I have also asked the Minister for Education about this. It is serious that the Social Democrats do not want to follow up on the situation with the absence of the country. To begin with, how are we supposed to know how big the problem is? Should we rely on various television programmes to produce statistics? We need to know what it looks like. Why do the Social Democrats not want to produce national statistics on absenteeism? I'm having a hard time understanding that.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-983	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue raised by Maria Stockhaus. I am deeply concerned about students with problematic absenteeism. We know that there are very different reasons why students end up in a problematic absence. We really need to think about how we can get to grips with that. I think that Maria Stockhaus is also aware of the fact that the follow-up responsibility of the Vice-Chancellor has been clarified. Students who have either extensive absenteeism or, for other reasons, problematic absenteeism must be followed up immediately. That responsibility has been pointed out to the headmaster. Anyone who sits at the best capacity to do something about it, based on knowledge of which students are in school or not, is probably not Maria Stockhaus. It's the headmaster in charge who needs to get that information.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-985	Mr President, I would like to The proposal that Linus Sköld points out that it has adopted, to clarify the rector's responsibility, is the only proposal from the investigation that has been taken into consideration. The investigation presented many good suggestions that I wish the government would look at more. However, the headmaster usually can't do this on his own. I have municipal experience. We brought this up at the main level and found out what it looked like in our schools. It was quite appalling when we got the statistics at the main level, even though Sollentuna is classified as a pretty good school municipality. Not even that question, that the heads should take responsibility for reviewing what it looks like in their schools, the government wants to lift up. I believe that, in many cases with long-term problematic absences, responsibility is left entirely to the Vice-Chancellor. It is not considered that the principal needs to follow it up or that the principal also has a responsibility. They do not want to follow it up at national level. That's remarkable. It feels like you want to stick your head in the sand. You don't want to see these students. You want to shift the responsibility to the headmaster who may not always have all the resources to deal with the matter. Many other bodies may be needed. How will the poor lonely headmaster get the support he needs if there is not even a demand on the heads to find out what it looks like in their schools? And how are we to know at national level that the measures we are taking here have any effect? We must also have the courage at national level to follow up on what we are doing. Tomorrow, I will participate in three interpellation debates with Anna Ekström myself, two of which are about the government not showing any interest in monitoring how things go after various reforms. We send out a lot of money to the schools, and we take a lot of action. But we also need to follow up on how things are going. When it comes to school absences, which have extremely serious consequences for individual students, we must dare to see what it looks like at national level. Which principals succeed and who do not succeed? Why do the Social Democrats not want these figures on the table?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-992	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for giving me a little more opportunity to talk about students with problematic absences! I think the subject is important. I think the most important thing you can do to get students back to school is to make sure that they get a sense of context, i.e. that they perceive the school in which they go as meaningful, understandable and manageable. Anyone who does not see his context as meaningful, understandable and manageable will to varying degrees feel anxiety in that situation. This particular situation may cause me to tremble a little, because I think it is only partly manageable. I haven't been in the speaker's chair that many times. A little anxiety's going on. I think anxiety is one of the reasons why there are students with long-term absences. If we assume that I am right in this, I think the Moderates need to think about their proposals concerning compulsory schooling, compulsory homework, higher grades, more national exams and tests to get on to the next grade. What anxiety and stress will this create for these students and how will it help them back to school?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-996	Mr President, I would like to Many of the ideas of equivalence and other things brought forth by Linus Sköld were wise. However, I have a few questions. First of all, I have seen the equivalence of the Social Democrats in practice in Malmö. Over the past ten years we have had 5 000 students who have completed comprehensive school in Malmö without permission. I have mentioned several times that there are lots of schools where under half of the students get access. It is social democratic equivalence in practice. We have a differentiated school allowance, and there is no problem with that. What I find difficult about what Linus Sköld has said is that a lot of focus is on paper and ideas, but what should actually be done to get results? We must realise that in the end it is the results that count. Today they are not delivered. This applies, among other things, in my municipality of residence. Linus Sköld talks about the conditions for children. The prerequisites in my municipality of residence are that we do not have huge problems with a low-wage proletariat, but have extremely big problems with a zero-öneproletariat because of the social-democratic policy being pursued. Hopefully we will be able to do something about this thanks to today's decision on another issue. I would like to hear how Linus Sköld really intends to ensure that we achieve results and that we are not just talking about wanting a beautiful school. That is certainly great, and I think we agree on a great deal. But in the end, it is the result that counts. How do we ensure that the children actually make it through school? I didn't hear much about that.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-1001	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen, for the questions! The result is, of course, desirable. Where it really happens is in the meeting between teachers and students and between students and pupils. Whether you talk about security and study or about knowledge development, that is where the important changes will take place. I think this is what Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen means when he says that I am too much paper and ideas and too little action. It needs to be more about the classroom. What happens in the classroom is probably something that those who are trained to implement it are best sent to decide. There needs to be a decent amount of autonomy for both principals and teachers to do good teaching in the classrooms. It may be that as much as we can minimize administration. For example, we Social Democrats, the Center Party and other parties agree to centrally correct and digitise national tests. We agree that we want an action programme for security and studyo, and we want to strengthen the powers of teachers and principals to maintain security and study in classrooms. All these are good things on which we agree and which are to be implemented during this parliamentary term. It will bring the practical meeting between teachers and students in the right direction. Does Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen not agree with me on this?
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-1005	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I agree with Linus Sköld about quite a lot. As he quite rightly says, there are a number of things on which we agree in this parliamentary term. One of these things is that we should focus on quality requirements over who owns the school in which the teaching is conducted. When Linus Sköld spoke before, he used the words It sounded a bit like he thought that the agreement that we have in the January agreement, which means that we should not ban various forms of operation within welfare, we should only be counting on for three years, from his perspective. It will be a bit problematic if the idea is that the Social Democrats should drop out of such agreements as soon as they get the chance. I hope that we can rely on them to believe, even after this parliamentary term, that it is what is delivered in the classrooms that is crucial and not who owns them. I'd like some reinforcement of what he actually means. Finally, I would like to mention something that was said in Linus Sköld's line shift with Jörgen Grubb. There was a rather strange discussion about what one thinks of preparation classes. There was an opinion about preparation classes and to some extent specific schools for pupils who came as new arrivals. We have had lots of such things in Malmö. But you don't segment people based on skin color or origin just because you're trying to create different forms to provide the best conditions. I think it's important that we stick to the facts. There are things to discuss that relate to values in relation to other parties, but we do not need to talk unnecessarily about things that are not relevant in this context.
i-d2483ec0e0cfcfce-1010	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Center Party is taking action to defend the Swedish Democrats was probably the most untied thing that has happened in this House today. Then let me explain what I meant. The Swedish Democrats have written a reservation about that there should be preparation schools where both newly arrived and other students who do not speak Swedish should be lifted out physically. They must be physically separated from others. Niels Paarup-Petersen-Peters can shake his head best, but that's what the reservation says. They shall be located in premises other than the usual school. I believe that this proposal does not have the same idea as the one contained in the rules that allow for preparation classes. There is the idea that the rate of throughput should be rapid, which I know the Center Party is also in favour of. I think that Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen needs to read the Swedish Democrats' proposals a little better before criticising me for criticising them. I do not think he agrees with the Swedish Democrats as he believes. The next question was who owns the classroom. We haven't said that's what matters. The important thing is that we get results. I agree with Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen on that conclusion. However, we are still two different parties, despite the fact that we have concluded the January agreement. If that's the case, we're on the same page. Moreover, the Center Party makes this clear today when it follows up on the demand for the order of order and ensures that there is an announcement to the government. We are not a single party, but we have different ideas. We will assert the ideas that exist outside the agreement. This Agreement shall apply year by year until the end of the term of office. We in the Social Democrats still have a Congress decision that we stand for the idea of limiting profit in welfare. That doesn't mean we're against different types of owners.
