i-f37f17eb7f411c82-3	Mr President, I would like to This is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the state's guidance of municipal supervision, an extremely important report. We Moderates had a follow-up motion, Equal and predictable supervisory review, which, unfortunately, was rejected, which we find boring. The review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office concerns four areas: alcohol supervision, chemical supervision, food supervision and environmental inspections – very important areas to control. It has included four authorities: the Swedish Public Health Agency, the Swedish Food Authority, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The following issues have been the starting point: Does supervisory guidance work effectively in the selected areas? What is being done to support and improve supervision, and how are these efforts valued by stakeholders? What are the characteristics of well-functioning supervisory guidance, and what are the conditions that favour or hinder the work of supervisory guidance? The answers to these questions are that the work on this is sprawling out in the country's municipalities, and it is not the municipalities' fault. Of course, we think it is important for the state to assume its responsibility to ensure that supervisory guidance works equally and well. The Swedish National Audit Office itself points out in its review that clearer organisational governance is needed that provides more effective and legally secure supervision in several areas. In some areas, an inefficient division of labour and responsibilities between central and regional levels has been chosen as a result of unclear governance from the government. We share the picture given in the Swedish National Audit Office's report and underline the importance of an equal and predictable supervisory review throughout the country. The government should therefore take measures to improve equivalence. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-f37f17eb7f411c82-12	Mr President, I would like to One can sometimes think about debates about the various reports of the Swedish National Audit Office. I would like to thank the committee colleague, Lund Kopparklint, for reviewing what the matter is about: the four authorities that have been examined and what supervisory guidance they are providing to maintain good supervision across the country. But I'd like to start at another end. The supervision that is to take place affects and helps many of our small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to highlight a smaller municipality in central Sweden, Rättvik, and the so-called Rättviks model, which is about what is called supervision and growth. When these two perspectives are combined, supervisory guidance from the various authorities becomes extremely central. We assume that there is a desire and an ambition to make the right choices and to make the right choices in the food industry, the different types of supervisory guidance provided by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency or the other authorities mentioned. Then it is incredibly important that the guidance that is being given contributes to this. The Rättviks model is based on that perspective, i.e. both supervision and growth. They want to reduce the regulatory burden and focus on strengthening entrepreneurs in their willingness to choose right. It does not get any better because it gets more complicated, and that is why it is important that the Swedish National Audit Office has done this supervisory guidance in order to highlight and point out in different ways the shortcomings that exist today. It also points to the strengths of some of the authorities – here it works well, and it has been organised in such a way that it can be seen that the guidance works. In other areas, the Swedish National Audit Office comes with some criticism. When it comes to how the government has responded to the criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office, I think that the criticism has been taken on board in an almost more positive way than has been the case in connection with a number of other reports from the Swedish National Audit Office that I have seen over the years. That is why I would also like to highlight that answer. It has been clearly stated that it sees the criticism that has come and intends to make real changes. Then it will be up to us to examine that ambition and ensure that this becomes a reality. With this relatively short contribution, I would therefore like to highlight the importance of good supervisory guidance. This affects or strengthens the outermost region, where many of our county boards or municipalities are required to carry out supervision that should be legally secure, equivalent and effective. These are important words to highlight. Supervision shall be consistent, equivalent and effective in order to promote both supervision and growth. These are important perspectives, not least in the light of legislation on ensuring this in the food, nature conservation and a number of other areas. That is why I would like to support the report.
i-f37f17eb7f411c82-19	Mr President, I would like to The most effective environmental work is the environmental work actually done. Environmental inspections have the task of checking that environmental work is carried out and that the rules of the environmental code are complied with. Environmental inspectors are the working ants of environmental policy. They sometimes have a rather ungrateful and vulnerable job. It is not always fully funded, has not very high status and is not well paid. But it's very important. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to talk about the importance of good environmental inspections. In fact, environmental offences are detected mainly in the framework of environmental inspections. Environmental crime is a legal area in which, in some cases, serious organised crime can be involved, as well as a clear link with economic crime. The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture had the opportunity to meet the City of Malmö this spring. Malmö has developed a work on coordinated supervision. It has been successful precisely against organised crime linked to environmental crime. Experience from this is now being spread to government authorities and other municipalities. This is an example of professional administrative managers at the local level being able to develop their operations together with their employees and become leading examples. A tt only believe in a top-down perspective where government authorities will tell municipalities how to work through guidance is to have an approach that is a little too narrow. The Swedish National Audit Office has thus reviewed the supervisory guidance in four areas, including environmental inspections. The review has covered four authorities: the Swedish Public Health Agency, the Swedish Food Authority, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The aim has been to assess whether supervisory guidance is good. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the supervisory guidance mainly works satisfactorily with regard to chemical supervision and food control, but that there are shortcomings in the field of alcohol supervision and environmental inspections. To put it simply, there has not been a sufficient level of service from central authorities to inspectors who need guidance or help in interpreting rules. In parallel with the Swedish National Audit Office's review, a report has also been produced by the State Environmental Audit Office. The Government will take measures to improve the division of responsibilities between authorities and ensure that the supervisory guides work better, in line with the proposals of the Swedish National Audit Office and the Environmental Supervision Investigation. Some of the criticisms that have emerged are directed at deficiencies in operational oversight, lack of resources and lack of competence of individual inspectors. These are matters for which the municipalities, and not us in Parliament, are primarily responsible. Here, however, it is important that we as politicians, regardless of party colours, promote improved environmental inspections and work to improve the conditions for all those who work as environmental inspectors.
