i-3955fc806ba8c046-5	Mr President, I would like to Some people talk about climate anxiety, and it can be that important. But few talk about defense anxiety. Not that I want to rush or excite anyone, but we really need to take those issues seriously. The combined threats and risks faced by society require a withdrawal of total defence. The 2015 defence decision meant that the planning for civil defence and total defence was resumed – that's good. And in the defence arrangements made in 2015– 2017, resources have been allocated to intensify that work, which is also good. When it comes to defence, some may forget that civil defence is an important part. We can see this not least in this report, which deals with a great many good motions. Now, after a summer of drought and fires and a Christmas when many lost electricity in their homes in the storm Alfrida, more people are paying attention to the issue. Then you have to ask yourself: Are you equipped for a possible crisis? Last year, MSB sent a message from a folder. Are you ready? - which was great. It's good if you've read it. I sincerely hope that many have read it. If this is not the case, I can say that it is still available. It is not enough that we all need to be more emergency-conscious. We also need to think in several ways. I'm thinking about drug readiness. How long do we manage a crisis with today's preparedness? Medicines are an important asset, both for the protection of life and health, as well as for the planning of civil defence and for support to the Swedish Armed Forces. Mr President, I would like to I am also thinking of food security. Do we have enough food for war or crisis? In the event of a crisis, a healthy citizen is expected to cope with food security for up to a week. Nevertheless, there are no emergency stocks, and if the transport systems collapse, the stores will be empty after 24 hours. We talked about this on Ekerö the other day. If the Nockeby Bridge disappears, you are in a lot of trouble out on Ekerö. Sweden can be said to have a good food security a common day when there is no crisis or war. But food security in Sweden rests on imports. Swedish food production has decreased, and Sweden has developed a strong dependence on imports over the past 25 years. What happens if the transports fail? The Swedish National Audit Office's review, which we recently debated in this House, concluded that the government has expressed a desire in several contexts to strengthen crisis preparedness, but in its governance little has been done to create clear conditions for pharmaceutical and food supply in the event of a crisis. Now several investigations are underway. Then we really have to make sure that there is a workshop of them. Mr President, I would like to Last night I met a bunch of farmers from Södertörn in Stockholm County. We talked about everything from the problem of being exposed to animal rights terrorists to that it is a problem when people would rather buy an organic product that travelled around half the world than a locally produced salad from the next farm. What is the incentive? I'm thinking of these amazing people getting up in the dark to make sure you have milk in your coffee. The food supply rate in Sweden has fallen to around 50 per cent. But we need to produce more food to cope with crises. In the event of a longer crisis with cut-off import routes, our food security is near disaster. Mr President, I would like to Many good exercises have been performed during the general exercise period. I would like to thank all the athletes: thank you for your time and for your commitment to these important issues! One question has touched me particularly. It's about positioning people in distress. Before I joined the Committee on Defence, I had no idea that this did not work. Today, when someone calls 112, an alarm operator cannot see the position of the emergency respondent. I thought they could. However, they can make a so-called triangulation; they can thus try to establish a position between three masters, which is not very precise. After a study visit to Trygghetens hus in Östersund, I saw what it can look like in reality. The surface of a triangulation can be enormous and difficult to search to find the person in need. Mr President, I would like to It's not enough that it's urgent and can be life-changing. You may need to start by looking, sometimes over large areas, before you can help the person who needs help. It is not sustainable for either the victim or those who are supposed to save lives. There's technology. Then the legislation must be modernised. Then we need to take our responsibility. I am pleased and proud that we Moderates have managed to unite a number of parties in the Committee on Defence who think this is important. It is so important that we are a majority in the Committee on Defence which supports the Government urgently reviewing the possibilities for society's alerting service to be allowed to position help seekers' mobile phones automatically. Thank God for that! We have many important topics under the heading of Civil Defense and Crisis Preparedness. I think we have every reason to come back to them, but today I was going to raise one more question. We Moderates want to review the conditions for a national crisis fund. Regardless of the next crisis – drought, flooding or other – there are major economic consequences. Natural disasters can lead to severe economic losses for individuals, traders, municipalities and regions. Even in cases where losses are covered by insurance, it may take a long time before those affected are compensated, and some damages are not compensated at all. Sweden does not currently have a framework for financial compensation once disasters have occurred. Instead, the Government decides on a case-by-case basis whether to grant additional aid. We Moderates think that a national crisis fund would create better conditions for a more predictable compensation system that benefits people, traders, municipalities and regions that are particularly hard hit by natural disasters. It also reduces the risk of the State budget being burdened with unforeseen expenditure. It would also allow faster payments, which could be absolutely central to those affected. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates are in favour of the committee's proposal for an announcement under paragraph 19 and our reservation 24 under paragraph 24, but we naturally support all our reservations.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-26	Mr President, I would like to I will start with a comment on Folk och Försvars konferens i Skövde in which we have participated. I have been there for a number of years, Mr President. I think it was fourth or fifth year. You can see a marked difference in how it is now compared to the first year I was there. Today, it is another efficiency that characterises many municipalities, and it is a collaboration between county boards in a different way. It's very exhilarating. This work continues at different speeds within municipalities and county boards, of course. However, it is very different from previous years, which is very gratifying. You can also see that once we in Sweden get moving and stick together, things happen. We're good at that. More and more people are doing this, and it is a strength that we have. Once we decide, things happen. Then we often hold on to this and push ahead, and that is a good thing. What we're worst at is getting to the point where we talk to each other. We are talking about the importance of cohesion in society, but we ourselves here in Parliament cannot really do it. We can't cooperate with each other. We can't talk like that. Yet we often give the impression that it is important. I think we should get better at talking to each other and see what we can agree on, as well as being clear about what we do not agree on. Here we have a lack of political and a lesson to do. I also think that the impact assessment capacity should be significantly improved in many respects. I do not want to single out any particular party, but we should put pressure on this in general terms. We need impact assessments before we take decisions, and we can do better. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday when we talked about the budget that is now in the Defence Committee, one Member said that bnp is a very blunt instrument, and that is it. In 2025 we will come up to 1.5% of GDP, according to the directives that are left to us. 1.5 percent of bnp, what could it be? Maybe 88-90 billion- I don't know exactly today. But that is what we have to deal with, and then we may feel that it is not very good. Of course it can fluctuate and cause problems, but just 1.5% of GDP is a concept widely used in Europe, so we have to deal with that. I think we agree that we should do it after all. I would also like to talk a little about energy readiness. There are different electrical power components, and everyone is dependent on safe electricity. For socially important activities, we know that power cuts can have unacceptable consequences, Mr President. So what do we do? We can develop the control technology so that the supply of electricity can be re-prioritized to socially important functions. This is noted, and we can continue that work. The Energy Authority should be entrusted with strengthening security of supply for particularly important societal activities. Mr President, I would like to Why are people here in Sweden without electricity for a month because it is blowing? It doesn't have to be a readiness, a war or anything, it just blows. Why was that? The trees blow over the power lines. How many storms and how many trees will break the electricity supply before we, county boards or municipalities think about what to do? How many years will go by before others realize that before the next storm we will remove the trees closest to the power lines that we cannot bury? For me, it is completely incomprehensible that this responsibility is not taken up in the municipalities. It's outrageous that you don't. One month you were out of power. It costs huge sums of money to deliver food and rescue these people by helicopter transportation and so on, because of trees blowing over electricity lines. This is happening in Sweden just because it blows. I find that extremely bad. I would also like to talk a little about the readiness of medicines in Sweden, Mr President. State stocks are in principle decommissioned. Today, no one is responsible for building up emergency stocks. I read in front of it: a Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment is that there are not sufficiently clear conditions, and not enough measures are taken, to create the conditions for food and pharmaceutical supply in the event of a crisis or under increased preparedness. ..................................................... This is extremely serious criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office. It recommends the Government to clarify objectives, requirements and responsibilities and to clarify the coordination tasks. This is a long time ago. What's going on? Nothing. Yeah, a little bit of hands. You plan for this, but you can speed it up. These are very important things that I would like to highlight in particular. Food security has been the subject of previous speakers. If you are going to do this, Mr President, I think you have to take a holistic approach. The countryside is not just a place to go touristing. If we are to have a living countryside, we must also ensure that it pays to farm our land and forests there. Then lower the diesel tax! Seek to keep rural schools! Lower employers' contributions for those who work out there! Remove taxes if you hire someone in a grocery store! VAT doesn't matter very much, because you still deduct it if you have a business. If we reduce expenditure on rural entrepreneurs, it is most likely that the conditions for remaining and strengthening their activities will increase. I am absolutely convinced of that. We need to develop and launch a plan for this, and we are happy to support such a plan. We will come back with our own proposals in this paragraph. I would also like to mention the floods that we are exercising again. I'm thinking of Göta älvdalen and Vänersområdet. In 2012, the Government received a report on a mission carried out by the State Geotechnical Institute. The work on a survey is under way, Mr President, which is gratifying because it has been a number of years since 2012. Now it's time to get to those questions. Right what it is, the scrabble will come, and it is far more costly to repair a scrabble instead of having a little premeditation. After the fight against forest fires in 2014, there were excellent proposals for changes, but nothing happened, Mr President! Then it burned again in 2018, and eventually it started a little better – in some parts much better. However, the central management function is lacking despite proposals already in 2014. Last year, 2018, it burned again, and by summer it will burn again. What's going on? This shows a slowness and that the impact assessment after the first fire was not enough. This is where we should get our act together. We have also put forward a proposal on position rules via AML, advanced mobile location. In this way you can directly see where the injured person is calling so that you can quickly help. As to how long these data are to be kept, there are various suggestions. We have said that we think it is worth supporting the motio nist, because it is quite similar to our own since before. Otherwise, we all support our reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 4.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-45	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank This is another important debate for us in defence policy. The focus is on the whole country and crisis preparedness, civil defence and the construction of the total defence. I was out walking with my brother in the woods on Sunday and found that water has stopped running in the streams. It's still there. I read the weather forecast: Ten days ahead it shows the sun and increased heat. The signs are recognized from how we had it this summer in many parts of the country. Each weather forecast showed another ten days of sun and high heat. The effects got worse and worse. It started early. It began at the time of the election. Then it rained the last time at home. Then there were a few occasions in Säffle district. Otherwise it was easy to run spring use, to get in the sowing, but the vegetation did not get started. It's stopping. The fields were yellow-burned. This was the case in many places around Sweden. Feed supply was scarce. There wasn't enough bait for the animals. The pressure increased every day and every week with the huge drying period for Sweden's farmers and keepers and others who depended on the availability of fresh water. Groundwater levels have also become a major challenge in recent years. These are trends that show what our society looks like and what we need to think about when we work with crisis preparedness issues. These tendencies are also something for us to learn about what we need to think about when we need to dimension a total defense, that is, to plan for the unexpected. It is now difficult to say what goes beyond the ten-day forecast. What will it look like in Sweden if there is no rain this spring either? What are we planning for? What we know is that many people are currently having difficulties with the supply of feed to their animals. It's hard when you don't know how long the food lasts. Just the same way it can be for us humans, who expect the food to be in the shelves and come with the transports from somewhere – if it is Swedish agriculture or from Europe. More than half of many goods are imported into our country. Sweden is extremely vulnerable, Sweden is extremely externally dependent and Sweden depends on a functioning market in Europe. These issues are important, and they are fundamental and keen to work with on a broad front. The overall defence perspective needs to permeate each policy area. It must be borne by all politicians in this Assembly, in the regions of the country and in all 290 municipalities. What is gratifying is that during the years we have discussed resuming the work on total defence, we have seen that the commitment has grown stronger and stronger in the country. Consciousness is increasing, and the understanding of how we try crisis preparedness issues is clarified. Together, we must take advantage of this and continue to maintain it. A stronger commitment to crisis preparedness and total defence lay the foundation for the long-term development of the whole country. In the way we can deal with security issues, with civil defence and military armament and many other issues in crisis preparedness, we can also find dynamic effects with growth, entrepreneurship, innovation, research and technology development. This applies not least to issues of energy transition. Some talk about the importance of nuclear power. The defense committee visited Japan last year. We learned then that nuclear power was shut down. We have written in our reports that in the event of higher preparedness or war nuclear power is shut down. Then the country will need resources to monitor, protect and monitor the operation of nuclear power plants when they are standing. A lot of military resources will be spent on that task. In particular, the vulnerability of the country's electricity supply will be evident. Then there is a great choice ahead of us. Should we become even more dependent on imported energy goods and large-scale solutions? Few facilities increase vulnerability. Or should we work for a direction with more, smaller producers of electricity of different kinds – solar energy, hydropower, wind? The opportunities are enormous, and they are all over the country – on land, at sea and in the air. With many small facilities, our vulnerability is reduced. This will increase security of supply and strengthen local development in rural areas. These are extremely interesting perspectives, which we center parties care about. We are committed to them because they are important for the country's long-term security. How to cope with natural disasters and challenges when the weather changes otherwise is something we learn gradually. But we also need to communicate from generation to generation what basic values are important in the heat and gravity of the moment. It is therefore important to follow up on the reductions in civil protection in many municipalities over the past 25 to 30 years. There is a huge potential for development and a huge challenge. Many rescue services have been dismantled or have decommissioned parts of their operations, and they need more people. We have debated these issues before, and they are worth repeating even today. There are staffing problems and priority must be given to them. A report that was presented a few weeks ago shows that recruitment and training for civil protection are improving. The effects of drought and the forest fires that went on for a long time last summer gave us a lot of lessons. The investigation highlighted many pieces. Let me give you a few examples. Actors acted slowly or too slowly. The stakes were terminated prematurely. The fire planes that arrived were sent home by midsummer time. They were then allowed to return to Sweden. Then we can count on the consequences three four days travel time had for how many hectares of forest burned unnecessarily. In some areas, the information on the prohibition of fire was unclear. Helicopters had to be deployed earlier. There were not enough off-road vehicles, pumps, hoses or sufficient fuel in many hard-tested rescue services. The municipal action plans were also not aimed at dealing with major forest fires. That's often the case. There are other goals of what can happen and what can happen to us. We need to take advantage of the various findings of the investigation and what worked very well. Many efforts were extremely important with employees, organized volunteers and spontaneous volunteers, and defence activities helped in many places. How we dimension and lay the foundations for emergency preparedness is important when we are going to scale up, cope with major events and crisis situations and also in a disrupted re preparedness perspective. The state needs clear expectations of what civil defence can do and for how long. If we are planning to last a week as individuals and society in general for three or four months, it places quite different demands on security of supply and security of supply in terms of food, food, energy and inputs. The Center Party also supports the establishment of a national crisis fund, so that it becomes clear what applies in these situations. I am in favour of reservation 24 in the report. The reservation is about compensation for individuals, traders and municipalities who are severely affected by a crisis. Today it is decided on a case-by-case basis, and there needs to be a clear idea of the planning of these issues. The Center Party also wants to see increased patrolling and intervention of forest fire aircraft in order to prevent forest fires in the past. We want to reintroduce state aid for forest fire monitoring, which was abolished in 2003. We also believe that landowners have a great responsibility to contribute with preventive measures. The Center Party wants to facilitate the recruitment of mountain rescuers, sea rescuers, part-time firefighters and firefighters. For us, it is fundamental that people in Sweden's sparsely populated areas or rural areas should feel secure and be sure that the help comes when it is needed. Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely extensive area of work. We are in the middle of total defence planning, and a review report is expected within five weeks. We will present the expenses and planning for the military defence. The report needs to clarify what expectations we have on the Swedish Armed Forces when it comes to support to manage crises in civil society as well as to manage the approximately 70 proposals presented in the first interim report Resistance in December 2017. The Centre Party supports the 70 or so proposals, and we expect the government to do everything possible to implement them as soon as possible. We also expect a balanced proposal next year to increase economically but also in practical terms for civil defence on the basis of emergency preparedness and with measures covering the whole perspective but also with the link to the military spending area in general. If I have not already done so, I would stress the importance of a private fire aircraft, a national capability capable of water-bombing. I am in favour of the Centre Party's reservations 24 and 28 in today's report.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-75	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating civil defence and emergency preparedness. I would like to make it clear at once that I am in favour of reservation 8. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time to come, I'll stick to that particular reservation. I want to underline what Daniel Bäckström said before. There are a number of different proposals that we are discussing. We laid down the 70 points in the Defence Committee's report a year ago. It needs to be made a workshop of them, and the money needed needs to be added. This is about how we can build and strengthen the defence. We need to strengthen military defence but also civil defence. I would like to highlight a few points in the report. Self-sufficiency is important. The level of self-sufficiency has fallen and is currently below 50%. Here we can compare ourselves to Finland, which has completely different figures. In a crisis situation, you can last six months. In Sweden, we can last a maximum of one month – if that goes well. Here it is important to emphasise that the level of self-sufficiency must increase and that the government must develop a strategy and work to this end. Mr President, I would like to This fire thing has been up. Unfortunately, something is happening. It happened last summer with great consequences, and it has happened before. If it burns, it wants you to have resources. Not least is it important to have helicopters. Last summer, the Armed Forces helped. They had an average of between two and three helicopters up, and they have large and good helicopters – not least Black Hawk, which can take 2 500 liters per bucket. The Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish Armed Forces should be given an additional assignment. This type of disaster is to be helped, as the resources of civil society are not sufficient. If you had received that additional assignment, you could have about twice as many helicopters up in the summer. This is something that needs to be corrected, because just like Daniel Bäckström was on before it will happen again. It was good that we received help from other countries, from Norway and from other countries around Europe, but we also need to be better able to use our own resources. That is why we are addressing one of our reservations that the state must be able to use helicopters more effectively. You should be able to use the Swedish Armed Forces' helicopters – MSB should be able to control it in a crisis situation – but also the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters. The latter are beautiful, but they have no lifting hook. There is something that needs to be corrected so that they can help. We are also addressing the issue of cyber attacks. The defense committee was recently in Ukraine. There is, of course, a war, Mr President, albeit low-intensity but still. It's been going on for five years. There are now about ten of them per month falling. In these five years, 14 000 have been killed. But we noticed that Russia, which is strongly involved there, also uses different types of cyber attacks. Ukraine, for example, has suffered a loss of power – a quarter of a million people have lost their electricity supply. This is something that can affect Sweden as well. That's why it's important that we strengthen our cyber defence. Today it is spread out to many different authorities. We believe that there needs to be a cybersecurity centre, a national one that exists in, for example, the UK, which gathers the best resources we have and ensures that the information can reach out also to civil society and not least to the business community so that we can create a safe marketplace in Sweden and protect ourselves from these attacks, which are constantly increasing. FRA has said that there are about 10 000 cyber attacks per month against Sweden. Thus, strengthening civil defence is an important part of strengthening cyber defence. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say something about an announcement made by the committee. This concerns the positioning of emergency personnel. Before cell phones, people called from a regular phone, a fixed phone. Then it was easy for SOS Alarm to directly see where the person called, and you could go there. Now we have cell phones. Then there is a technique that allows you to locate – you can directly see that out there on the sea is Lisa, and there in the forest is Pelle. There is something that gives the exact position. It is therefore important that the committee has made this announcement. Now the government needs to speed up. There is a directive that this should be implemented by 2020. But it has already been introduced in the UK, for example, for five years and also in Finland. It is therefore important that this should be put in place as soon as possible so that emergency workers can get help much faster. It is something that will save human lives.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-90	Mr President, I would like to I think it is positive that the motion report we have to debate today, civil defence and emergency preparedness, is so comprehensive. This means that there are many in this House who feel a commitment to these issues, who see the importance of a strong civil defence and a functioning crisis preparedness and who see that the strength of the Swedish defence concept is the sum of our joint efforts. In this context, civil defence is absolutely crucial. It is crucial for the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to act persistently over time, and it is crucial to maintaining a defence will. Another important aspect is that civil defence is also useful during peacetime crises and can complement crisis preparedness. A society that has planned for the worst – the armed attack – will also be better equipped to face civil crises, no matter what form they take. However, unlike military defence, civil defence is not an organisation of its own, which can be a challenge in itself. Civil defence is in fact all other activities that are needed in different ways in the event of increased preparedness. It is therefore difficult to identify one issue or area that would be more important than anything else. As the motion for a resolution shows, we need to look at a number of areas of concern. There are exercises on food and medicine supply, shelters, conductivity, healthcare and transport. It is just how large and complex this area is. Care for the elderly must work in war, as must energy supply, as well as the financial system and so on. The Defence Committee's first interim report, Resistance, provides a solid analysis of the vulnerabilities of society. The common thread that I think I see is the overall view, the realization that society is not stronger than its weakest link – and we can be absolutely sure that any opponent will target his attacks on our weak points. Mr President, I would like to These debates tend to highlight the fact that Sweden has not worked very actively with civil defence for a long time. That is the case, and it also has consequences. Perhaps the official who was most oriented about the procedures for increased preparedness has now retired. Due to the passing of time, it is inevitable that fewer and fewer employees in our agencies have been involved in a large total defence exercise. After all, the last exercise was 1987. Rather, today we have a younger generation of officials and administrators who, like myself, have grown up in the 1990s and early 2000s, which were strongly marked by a peace-time rationality in which society's resources and efforts were essentially limited to facing civil crises. Of course, crises can be so stressful. We saw this not least during last summer's extensive forest fires. Yet it is quite another matter to prepare for and plan for an armed attack. Much work is being done at the same time and at several different levels in the field of civil defence. These are training measures, support for municipalities, state investigations and exercises. Speaking of 1987, next year the first major total defence exercise in Sweden will take place in more than 30 years. The exercise will be an important milestone in the work on coherent total defence planning. As a step on the way to next year's exercise, last year MSB conducted the first national exercise within the framework of the renewed total defence planning, Samö 18. The focus was on collaboration and management under disturbed conditions. I will also mention some of the initiatives taken by the government aimed at laying the foundations for future work, not least for next year's defence decisions. Some examples include an investigation into clearer responsibilities and management conditions and strengthened coordination in civil defence, an investigation into the preparedness and ability of health care services for and in the event of serious incidents in peacetime and increased preparedness, an investigation into a new psychological defence authority that will be in place on 1 January 2021, and an investigation into the role of industry in total defence, which is a very important issue. In addition, a new national centre has been decided to strengthen coordination on information and cyber security, as well as decisions on changes to MSB's instructions and clarification of the Authority's responsibilities for, inter alia, civil defence planning, coordination and evaluation. Mr President, I would like to These are some examples showing the direction ahead. Management capacity needs to be strengthened and become more robust both regionally and nationally. The whole of society, including the business community, must be involved in the work of total defence planning. Of course, we also need to be very vigilant about the growing cyber threat. In conclusion, I shall also comment in particular on the announcement contained in the report on the very important issue of being able to position emergency callers calling 112. Here we all agree. That anyone who calls 112 wants to be found and helped must be a given starting point. You don't call 112 to get general health advice, but to get immediate help. SOS Alarm today has the possibility of GPS positioning. It is based on sending a text message to the emergency respondent, and SOS Alarm gets the exact position. They also use the eCall feature, which is installed in newer cars and means that the car's sensors detect an accident situation and send an impulse to SOS Alarm, which then gets the positioning tasks. But not everyone is in such a condition that they can respond to a text message when they call 112, and all accidents, as you know, do not happen in new cars. It is therefore also necessary to use the technology known as AML, which several Members have mentioned. This technology is currently used in several countries. When I checked off with SOS Alarm the other day, the message was that they expect to be able to launch this technology in the near future, perhaps already during the first half of this year. It is based on a collaboration with the major system owners, Google and Apple, who put a tracking feature in the phones, which means that SOS Alarm automatically gets the position when someone calls. Mr President, I would like to This change will save lives. It is our view that SOS Alarm is quite right to test the legislation in this area at this stage. In the longer term, Sweden will implement a new EU directive. It should be implemented by law by December 2020 and means that mobiles should be traceable during emergency calls. Irrespective of the announcement, it is therefore a matter of concern and it is moving in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-110	Mr President, I would like to I have a rather simple question for the honourable Member. Do you share the view that we should resume a psychological defence?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-111	Mr President, I would like to The answer to that question is yes, and as I mentioned in my speech, there is an investigation mission to establish a psychological defence authority.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-112	Mr President, I would like to Are you locked in that it must be a new authority, or can you imagine another authority being given that responsibility?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-113	Mr President, I would like to Today, MSB works with psychological defence, but our ambition is to shift the work and concentrate it on a new authority. The directives are clear and investigators are in place for this purpose. The point is that we should improve and raise the level of ambition, and we believe that we can do so by setting up this authority.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Hello also to all of you who listen and watch! Today, too, we are debating a great deal of motions on defence policy under the heading. It has been interesting to listen to what has been said in the previous speaker's chair, and very good and important has been said. In the Committee on Defence, we have a clear focus on the military issues. We are talking about different types of boats that need to be bought in, about aircraft, about something that I have learned is called medium-range anti-aircraft and about a lot of other things in the military field. However, the Committee on Defence is also responsible for matters relating to civil defence and emergency preparedness. For six months, I have received interesting presentations from the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection, Coast Guard and Civil Protection, and about the role of county boards and municipalities. It has been about the civil work and perhaps the more everyday crisis preparedness that most people who live in Sweden can recognize themselves in. As a member from Skåne, I have several times met the County Administrative Board of Skåne, which has come a long way in its work with regard to the civil. We live in a more vulnerable time and world, and I think a lot of people notice it. We depend on food in stores, electricity and water being delivered and the internet working. Many of us, perhaps especially those of me who are relatively young and raised in a city, may find it difficult to imagine what can happen if society's systems do not work. In my hometown of Lund, we needed to boil drinking water for a longer period of time a few years ago. It was noticed that this affected the people of Lund a lot. It was not a serious crisis, but many were concerned about having to boil their drinking water for a long period of time, which is, after all, vital. Climate change and natural disasters are a serious threat to the country's inhabitants. Many recent examples have been mentioned here today: fires, floods and droughts. We also know that we will see more of this in the future. Around the world, natural disasters and climate change are the root causes of war and conflict. Working towards climate change and a better environment is therefore working towards a more peaceful world. This must be given the highest priority throughout our society, and we must dare to take decisions to combat climate change and natural disasters. Mr President, I would like to We have a great responsibility to build a crisis preparedness in both society as a whole and in our individual people and to plan for major and minor crises in the future. Here, municipalities have a huge responsibility to ensure that activities such as care for the elderly and preschool continue to be in place in times of crisis, how waste management should work and how the population should be properly informed about important events. In addition, the major task of county councils and regions will also be to have a functioning health care system. We in the Left Party are very concerned about cuts in the local and regional sector, where staff are already on their knees today, when we are not in major external crises. In order for operations to operate in a crisis, it is necessary that the staff are not at the outset prepared and understaffed, as is unfortunately the case today when cuts are made in the municipal sector. We in the Left Party would like to see, in addition to military military military service, a civil obligation in which young people can for some time gain insight into and learn more about the various tasks of the public sector. It would raise the general knowledge of the population, strengthen the willingness to join in taking a joint responsibility and hopefully attract young people to learn in the important welfare professions ahead. We all have a shared responsibility for our society to be strong and resilient. Together we strengthen democracy, equality and equality. For the Left Party it is obvious that equal societies where we plan, fund and implement things together are strong societies. We must stay together and work together to counter the divisions that we see in society today with increasing class divisions and racism. Because it is only when we stand together that we can resist a society that is more and more at risk. We in the Left Party have no reservations of our own in this area. I therefore have no claim.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-129	Mr President, I would like to Until the year 2000, Sweden had a significant civil defence with civil duty. In principle, the civilian areas were in line with the military areas, and together with the military area commander, the Civilian Area Commander, together they complemented each other by creating a solid basis for total defence. A further level of preparedness was in place until 2005, with the aim of securing the functioning of a range of socially important institutions and infrastructure. Military defence cannot function without a strong civil defence, which we consider to be a vital part of total defence. A credible and functioning total defence requires that the military and civil defence are well-coordinated, funded and clear in their objectives and structures. This is something that already in peacetime needs to be in place. The Swedish Democrats believe that there are elements that urgently need to be put in place, and I will mention some of our reservations in the report, Civil Defence and Crisis Preparedness, which we are now debating. An important piece of the puzzle when we rebuild civil defence is that there is a need for a responsible authority to coordinate the activities, as the Civil Defense Authority previously did. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB, has had pieces of the role and, for example, had to take a certain leadership role during last summer's fires. MSB should be reorganised and have a clearer focus on civil defence. MSB should also be empowered to act as a national civil defence authority in order to facilitate coordination between regional authorities in peace, crisis and war. Another important component of robust total defence is the reintroduction of civil duty. Today, there is an opportunity to imprison people into society outside military service. In a situation of increased preparedness, the Government may provide for public service obligations if this is necessary for the maintenance of activities of particular importance for the overall defence. The regulation may relate to a particular part of the country or to a specific activity. The problem is that the people that the government uses may not have the procedures or are consensual with the collaboration partners that their task requires. There may also be serious situations of crisis or grey-zone problems where there is no increased preparedness, as the government does not have the authority to call for duty. It is then important that civil duty is restored and that there is also, if necessary, compulsory education. These may include, for example, emergency services personnel, power network repairers or persons who are war-placed in their workplace without further training needs but with the need for understanding and routines in the event of a crisis or war. Since Sweden is divided into counties and government regions, it must be determined how civil defence should be organised. In order to simplify collaboration with the Swedish Armed Forces, we believe that this division should follow the areas of the military regions. Within such a total defence area, a civilian commander should be appointed to lead planning in peace, crisis and war. The principles of responsibility, equality and proximity should permeate civil defence. New threats require that counties and municipalities can mobilise active crisis management at a high level. Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all our reservations, but for the time being, I only call for reservation 4. I would also like to thank all those who have tabled motions. It feels great that there is such commitment in this area.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-137	Mr President, I would like to It can be seen that civil defence and emergency preparedness are engaged. This can be seen both from the involvement in the debate and from the heavy weight of the report. It's 150 pages, 65 motions and about 110 motions. There are a great many good proposals, I think, which are new to the Committee on Defence. I have read through the report and feel that I have gained a lot of new knowledge that I did not have before. These range from increased information efforts to increase knowledge about the defence system to crisis information, the role of civil protection and the role of part-time firefighters. It is about droughts, floods, fireworks and fireplaces, but also about food and medicine preparedness, as several Members have said here in the past. In fact, civil defence and emergency preparedness have not previously been a topic of discussion in my associations or in my family. It is quite difficult with social information today, when we are flooded with so much information and different messages. I myself remember quite vaguely the page that was previously in the telephone book with information about what we should do in the event of a crisis or war. My own children, as far as I know, have no such memories of their own. Therefore, it is good to increase awareness and knowledge that MSB is now publishing the brochure that several others have also talked about, If the crisis or war is coming. It is also important, as previous Members of this House have said, that we take note of what it contains. I also believe that the reinstated general military service not only increases Sweden's ability but also knowledge. It also provides brochures and information to all 18-year-old girls and boys in the country, which I think affects the discussions in their families and families. This means that we increase the knowledge and information that civil defence is also needed. Mr President, I would like to Many others have been involved in food and medicine preparedness. I would also like to agree that there are still shortcomings. There are shortcomings in the preparedness to supply food and medicines in the event of a crisis or a war. The government has taken a number of steps to address this. Among other things, a comprehensive investigation has been set up on responsibilities, management and coordination in civil defence, to be reported by 31 March 2020. The civil defence budget has been strengthened, and it states that the funds should be used, among other things, to work on issues related to pharmaceutical and food security. When it comes to food security, the responsibility lies with the municipalities, and as former municipal politicians and municipal commissioners, I can admit that we have not worked enough on these issues in Blekinge. However, this has been the case for a year now, when Region Blekinge decided that it had to be done. This is also, as other Members have said, an important issue in order for the whole country to have the same opportunities and obligations and to be equal. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Defence also welcomes the approach taken so far by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in relation to food security, since it has been specifically stated that the amount of food that must be available during a serious security policy crisis that is going on for up to three months should be determined. I think it is positive that the government has clearly shown a willingness to develop this area, but, as has been said, a great deal remains to be done. Here we must also emphasise the importance of greater interaction between public and private society, not least in the food and pharmaceutical industries. When pharmacies were privatised, the state's responsibility for emergency stocks ceased, which has increased vulnerability and could have serious consequences. A Member who spoke earlier said that the government does some but not enough. However, the government has set up an investigation in this area as well, Mr President. It shall be reported by 1 June 2020. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with supporting the county council in this task. This includes, among other things, conducting a preliminary study of the county councils' needs and of the knowledge base in this area. We're looking forward to that. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has already done some work and presented its mission in June 2018 to reassess how the content of the Agency's emergency stocks of medicines and medical technology should be handled. It has been found that more information is needed for county councils. Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Committee on Defence, we are in favour of the government's willingness to develop these areas and note that some measures have been taken. However, it is likely that more needs to be done, and therefore we look forward to the government's preparation of the Defence Committee's report in this area. Finally, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Defence.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-153	Mr President, I would like to When we talk about human resources policy, I think it is important to start by thinking about why there is a human resources policy and what it should lead to. It is quite easy to define within the Armed Forces. What you often measure defence worth in is what we call operational capacity or ability. This, in turn, can be summarised in three parts. The first is about staff, the second is about equipment and the third is about practice. It's not so hard to see that if you don't have the first piece, the other two fall quite flat. Material does not have the ability to contribute to operational operations if there are no staff to use it. Nor does it make sense to have exercises if the staff are not there and can learn to interact with both equipment and other staff. The personnel are therefore very critical within the Swedish Armed Forces, and there is a lot to do. I would also like to refer to the time when the two present government parties were in opposition. At the time, the tone was very high on the staff issue. I am such a person who likes to have debates, but when you do so in a loud tone, you also sometimes become guilty of the answer. I think that today, when we sum up this, we may regret some of the words that were said. We can note that personnel policy within the Armed Forces is in many respects a failure. Let me give an example, Mr President. During the last parliamentary term, we made an announcement within the Defence Committee, where we said that in order to retain and attract personnel, the Swedish Armed Forces need to strengthen their offer. Some of this, we thought, could be to offer training premiums of various kinds so that the soldier or sailor who goes in and works will do so for a long time. This was announced by the Defence Committee and passed on to the Ministry of Defence, which after a while returned with a proposal. The proposal that had been made and implemented meant that the soldiers who had previously been hired as recruits and had a recruitment salary lost that salary and instead received a training premium after completing the recruitment service. So it was exactly the same money, but you had to wait a little longer to get it. It was a proposal for the premium that the Social Democrats presented to Parliament and thought it should be introduced. I believe this demonstrates the ambition of the Red-Green Government to actually look at the staff and give them a good offer and appreciation for the work they do within the Swedish Armed Forces. I believe that this is what follows on this issue. In the case of officers, it can also be noted that the outflow is still greater than the inflow. Last year there were sixteen training rounds, and at only three of them the number of applicants and approved students was such that one could claim to be satisfied with the outcome. This shows that the Swedish Armed Forces and ultimately politics, despite the fact that this issue has now been on the table for a number of years, have not been able to attract people to the defence and carry out an education and make careers there. In this case, there should be a series of measures that could be evaluated by looking at various reasons and possibilities for tackling the problems. However, it must be said that these are missing. There are two measures to which you can refer. One is about more ways in and has generated 34 jobs. In a defence force that is supposed to employ 50 000 people, this is modest, to say the least. The second is about the possibility to work after reaching the contractual retirement age. It has not been reported how many people have been given this opportunity, but after discussions with both the Officers' Association and the Swedish Armed Forces, I have found it quite difficult to get it. Many people want to work after the contract retirement age because it is often a little lower than the general retirement age, but very few get the opportunity to do so. What will result if an officer who wants to remain on duty is not allowed to do so? Well, many times the officer takes his medal and watch and quits his employment at the Swedish Armed Forces but instead begins as a consultant and continues working for the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces will thus have to pay a pension, and you will also have to pay a consultant's salary for personnel who would have wanted to remain within the Swedish Armed Forces many times from the beginning. Another part, which we have seen for many years as a success story when it comes to recruitment, is the Home Guard. But now you can see that even the Home Guard has problems recruiting for his units. I can understand that in some sense. I have often had the privilege of being out on the Home Guard's exercises and following the managers who run the units. I can state that your primary task as head of a Home Guard unit is not always to plan for war, set up your unit and practice with it. Many times the day-to-day work is about getting units that work, having equipment in place and being able to make the simple and basic – having vehicles to carry their troops. Even this, which is seen as a foundation that was talked about a long time ago, does not work. We still have to ask ourselves whether we have the right organisation for the Home Guard when we do not succeed in recruiting as many people as are needed for this. I also believe that there is a peace-time bureaucracy within the Home Guard that might discourage many people. Just take this to ride in a car with rear-facing chairs. A new parent who is about to transport a newborn puts the child in reverse. But within the Home Guard a number of hours of practice is required to drive a vehicle with rearward - facing chairs. It's a little strange. Another simple thing is to inspect a car. If you are in a military area without a military inspection station, it may take a day's work just to inspect a car. The fact that the Home Guard is not allowed to use its medical resources to provide medical care is another troubling fact. Let me give you an example from my hometown. If an oskarshamner, who is of course very happy because we went up in the elite series of hockey yesterday, is to get in the car to go to an exercise he would first have to go from Oskarshamn to Västervik to pick up a military vehicle, and then he would have to go on to Vimmerby to pick up the military equipment, after which he will be transported to another county, Kronoberg County, to perform the exercises at Kosta shooting field. 25 miles and at least three hours later he is in place to carry out the exercise, and of course you wonder if the Oskarshamnen is equally happy after using three hours of his own time to drive a car without getting anything done. I do not think that the Home Guard in Oskarshamn is an example that stands out specifically, but I think that this inefficiency and problem is found in many other parts. It is therefore important that the Home Guard be allowed to become its own defence branch, as we Moderates have proposed, so that you have an advisory power over your equipment, over your staff and over the funds you have. Mr President, I would like to On a day like this, it is difficult to avoid saying anything about what is called funding. The Spring Bill has been presented and will later be debated in this House. We should not anticipate it, but there is still reason to reflect on some aspects of the economy that the defence suffers. The defence has politically an organisation in which all parties participate in a defence preparation. The problem in this defence preparation is rarely to agree on what you want, but it is quite easy to agree on the direction, objectives and strategies. The problem comes later, when you come to finance. Many times, defence decisions have had wordings that, if there are possibilities, have been written or, if there is financial space, there is room for manoeuvre. It is clear that such defence decisions will never be fully implemented. I believe, Mr President, that we are once again in danger of having such a defence decision when we see the government's representatives duck, shy away and try to speak down expectations of increased resources to the Armed Forces. We see in our surrounding world that countries are actually investing money in their defences and that Sweden is quite far behind in the class when it comes to investments. We must note that if we think that our freedom is worth something and if we think that we should be prepared on the civilian side that meets the expectations of the Swedes, we must let the economy go with it. You might ask who we're fooling. The first people we fool are ourselves. After all, we are the victims of lying to our constituents when we say one thing in our objectives, but another thing in our funding. The others we fool are, of course, the voters, but I think they will soon come upon us and will see through what we say if we cannot deliver what we have said. Those we don't fool are the ones who don't want us well. They'll see through this pretty soon. They also see that Sweden has a rather weak preparedness that needs to be strengthened in many areas and that there is very little workshop from the Swedish Defence Department and Swedish politics. Sweden has a relatively high defence will. I believe that we are in danger of reducing this will to defend ourselves and of doing ourselves a disservice if we do not finance the defence efforts that are now needed. The judgment will be harsh for those who avoid making the difficult decisions ahead. The Swedish Armed Forces need long-term conditions for both materials and personnel and for other costs that are there. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-177	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to start with a little financials and hang on there. In the Defence Committee's directive, we have said 11⁄2% in 2025. If we go back to the previous defence decision, we can see that the direction there was up to two brigades. What about this? That was not the case, Mr President, but a completely different level. That is the case – that is what we are saying. In order to avoid these constant cuts, withdrawals and uncertainty in the Swedish Armed Forces about what you have to dispose of, we have two options, as I see it. One is that the defence allocation is fixed and the objectives and defence capabilities may be adapted to the budget presented. That is one way, and that is what we have now. We can look at the previous defence-oriented decision, where the money is not enough to achieve the goals of the Defence Committee. Then you have to adapt this, but it creates uncertainty about the planning for everyone who is planning within the Swedish Armed Forces. This also applies to other authorities, but we are looking at the Swedish Armed Forces. The second option, which the Swedish Democrats think is much better, is that the objectives and defence capabilities are definite, for example in a defence committee where we agree on this. Then the defence grant will have to be adjusted accordingly. If you do not want to do so, you have to change the objectives during the journey so that the appropriations we give are adapted to the objectives. After all, we cannot remain in a defence committee with a definite goal of reaching 2025 but do not allocate money for this. Then we must go back and change the objective so that it is consistent with the means we allocate to the Armed Forces. We advocate option two. The objectives we set should have financial opportunities to be achieved. That's one thing. Then I would like to briefly mention the European Union's battle groups. As you know, since 2007, so-called rapid reaction forces have been in place at European level, but they are in storage. We believe that Sweden should remain outside the system of combat groups. One of the main reasons is that, of course, what has not been practiced in peacetime and has never been practiced will not work in an effort, in a war situation or the like. We should all understand this, Mr President, and then we should not have these groups at a cost. Put down the European Union's battle groups! And the efforts to be made should be based on UN mandates. The next thing I want to talk about when it comes to the motions we have written is a recruitment office in Luleå. It is the third year that we are discussing this in a motion. I know the chief of F 21 wants us to open an office there. He believes that it would facilitate recruitment, both for conscripts and, in the long term, for officers if you had a recruitment office in Luleå. He has said that this is one of the most important points of recruitment. Now also managers of Military Region North have joined and want to open a recruitment office in the north, for example in Luleå. So far, we are the only ones who feel that we should take advantage of the wisdom they possess in their ability to recruit. That is not to say that it should be open all year round in all parts, but we will continue to fight for this. Then I would like to move on to another matter, briefly. Now they often say that you have been a little naive. When the systems, civil defense and emergency stocks were destroyed, they were a little naive. Synonyms of it are childish, gullible, stupid, stupid and stupid. I think we should use other names and find better words than stupid and stupid. They are synonyms, and that is what we are told. There are better words than naive when it's so serious. I don't think we've been a little childish. Mr President, I would like to It's a good thing we have heart-starters at the different levels. When I read about the new fast track in officer training, it's a good thing they exist. You can read ads where the armored regiment P 7 or the management regiment advertises after people who have 180 points and an academic degree, perhaps in Greek mythology, research or something else – what do I know – law school? You come in after a green service. Six seven months-- then you're out in the civilians and you read Greek mythology and you get 180 points. You can apply to Karlberg and study war science for a year. It's tactics, strategy, leadership and fighting. This is the science of war. That's enough with a year. Then you come out as an ensign and you're going to serve as deputy platoon chief. If we back down quite a few years there was a time when you were younger and joked a little bit. They had laundry change officers who had the skills to change laundry for the soldiers. It's not the same as now. They were on their way to training on the units, and they joked a little bit with each other. But this is where an "A" team and a "B" team are created. What can this ensign, who has six months of education, be able to shorten his training in war science, that is, tactics? It is the nuclear material of the officers' profession that is being cut short. There is no need for tactics and strategy. Why? Well, this person has 180 academic points. This profession is the only one that lowers the requirements of its professional profession – six months. So what do we want instead? We naturally want them to do military service for 9-11 months. We do not need to go back to the longer training period of 15 months that we had previously for conscripts – KB. But if it's the lower level, 9-11 months, we want squad teams schools. That means that if you're in the engineering unit, that's the specific thing that you have to learn. It's called squad teams schools. You learn specifically what applies to this unit. After this you can apply for the officer training, Karlberg as it is called in everyday speech. When you, as it is intended, go to Karlberg and study war science for three years, one of the goals is operational education. You're going back to the unit again. You get a relationship. After this, they serve as deputy platoon chief or platoon chief for one to two years. With good advice, you can then read on and come to the next school. This is destroyed by the fast track. Then, of course, we will put back SU – staff training. It is the old Military Academy – the battalion and brigade level that is now removed. It has to go back. Between these schools you should have well-ordered service in order to be able to go to the next level. We will fight for that. With this system, the reserve officer has a higher education. But what does it do, because we have academics who have studied political science, Greek mythology or something else? This is the wrong way to go to try to get an officer's corps. Who wants to belong to a war unit where there are such bosses who know nothing about the nuclear material of the officers' profession? Mr President, I would like to Conversely, I can apply for an internship in a hospital. I'll go there for six months. Then I get 180 points in Greek mythology and then go to medical school. I can then, of course, cut it down by two years and pass it only three years, because I already have academic points. Who wants to go to me as a doctor then? That's not many. The profession of officers is the only thing that buys a system that lowers the quality of a job that I can imagine being one of the most difficult, namely leading units in war. We must put an end to this. I will come back to you shortly with the reservations that we support.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-195	Mr President, I would like to Today it is obvious that one of the Armed Forces' most important issues concerns the supply of personnel. The Swedish Armed Forces are in the same situation as other sectors of society, namely that they suffer from labour shortages. I'm kind of new in this role. So I thought I could focus a little bit on the big picture: What is it that makes us here today, and what can we do about it? I think I can see a fairly similar situation for defence equipment and personnel, namely that both are getting quite old. That is the challenge. Looking back, one can see that around the turn of the millennium in 2000, there was a continuous renewal of both staff and equipment. Then we know that both personnel and equipment work for about 30 years. Then a generational shift is needed. What has happened over the last 15 years is that we have hardly had any renewal of either staff or equipment. Let's start building this up again. This gives us an age-old staff group, and we have a great challenge to fix this in the future. This is particularly noticeable on the officers' side. In practice, officers are needed for two things. They are needed to maintain our readiness, as we demand of them, that is to say, to defend the country to a greater extent. They are also needed to train recruits and future officers. This should be done at the same time, but there will be major problems to do this in practice. We know that these are long lead times. It takes about ten years to train a senior officer. I have received some background information from the Swedish Armed Forces, and the overall picture that the Swedish Armed Forces now give of the personnel situation is that we are facing an acute officer shortage. The Swedish Armed Forces speak in terms of moving from staff shortages to personnel crises. So fewer officers are going to work more, and it's a situation that's actually really difficult-- like an equation that doesn't make sense. Nevertheless, I think that three basic elements can be highlighted. By 2029, that is, in ten years' time, half of the current army of officers has reached retirement age – 50% in ten years. It's kind of alarming. Another basic fact is that there are more people who stop than are newly appointed to the Swedish Armed Forces. This situation cannot, of course, be resolved in the future. Especially challenging is keeping staff and not just recruiting new ones. A third basic fact is that when calculations have been made on this one it is seen that in order to achieve equilibrium, especially in the future, in the supply of personnel, one needs a supplement of 250 officers per year and also 385 special officers per year from 2021. When you look at these two speeches, 250 plus 385, you can say that the Swedish Armed Forces have not trained so much new people in the last 18 years. It says a little about the problem and the challenge we face. Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party know that staff issues are important, but they are also on the verge of what politics should get into. It is in practice the Swedish Armed Forces themselves who have the main responsibility for them. We know that working conditions, and so on, are being created between the social partners in this context too. But, of course, politics also has a responsibility for this to work in the future. Our basic picture in the Center Party is the question: How do we bridge the slump that we are currently experiencing on the staff side in order to get to a better reality? We have some answers. Among other things, we recognise that basic education needs to increase by up to 8 000 recruits per year. It's a way to increase the recruitment base in the future for new officers. We also believe that we will work more actively with using the reserve officers' corps than we have done before. It is also central to working with NGOs. They are an important recruitment base for getting more people into this profession. It is also very important in order to have a people's attachment to the defence, which we really need. It is also quite obvious that the Swedish Armed Forces need to work more with incentive structures, not least to get people to continue in this career. We also believe that it is possible to work more to attract former soldiers back into the profession. We can see this, for example, on Gotland, where there has been a re-establishment. In fact, a lot of people have stepped back into the military, which is very beneficial. Of course, the Armed Forces need to work with being an attractive employer, just like any other employer. Then it is about leadership, salary, participation, meaningful tasks and well-being and culture so that people want to remain in the profession. Finally, the Center Party believes that human resources is one of the crucial aspects. It goes without saying that if you have no staff, you have no defence either. We realise that there will probably be a need for specific policy action in this area. Perhaps you need to sew a package together in some form in the future to meet this challenge. We are prepared to take this discussion mainly in the Defence Committee and in future decisions. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 7.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-213	Mr President, honourable Members and all of you who are listening and watching! Today we are continuing to debate motions in the field of defence policy, and we have come to what concerns the staff of the Armed Forces. Here, the Left Party has raised two motions, one on the Swedish Armed Forces' gender equality work and one on children's rights and protection in war and conflict. Of course, in our motions there are many good proposals and motions, and we are all behind them. However, I will only support one of the reservations, and that is reservation No 6. The Left Party is a feminist party, and it is obvious for us to have a feminist perspective on defence and security work. Women's rights and experience must also be given greater place in this part of the policy. Building and strengthening democracy and human rights is a long-term effort that must involve women's rights and participation, both nationally and internationally. A feminist security policy is a policy that guarantees women education, work, democratic influence, the right to their own bodies and the right to live their own lives freely. In this context, we must also remember that women and children are the hardest hit both during and after wars and conflicts. A feminist defence and security policy focuses on the important issue of popularisation. For the Left Party it is incredibly important that the defence of Sweden involves the entire population, based on the different conditions, knowledge and experiences of all people. Women's participation in defence and security work is crucial for the whole of society to be able to withstand crises and acute events. Gender equality has its own value. Gender balance in workplaces and in decision-making assemblies shows that society is there for everyone, but gender equality is also a method that allows everyone's different perspectives to emerge and be taken into account when planning our society. Ultimately, therefore, it is a question of democracy. Mr President, I would like to It is now two years since military service was reinstated in Sweden and made gender neutral. Conscription is an important part of securing popular attachment and something that the Left Party has been behind all along. Although we agree today that gender equality is an important cornerstone of our society and that women and men should have equal opportunities, the Swedish Armed Forces' activities lag behind quite a lot in terms of gender equality. In a good report in Swedish Radio news we could hear that fewer than 20 per cent of those who do military service today are women. In fact, the fact that the proportion of women in military service is as low as a fifth is quite outrageous – but at the same time perhaps not so surprising. There are few professions and sectors that are as male-dominated as defence and so associated with certain standards of how employees should be. In today's equal society, it is worth remembering that it was precisely within the Swedish Armed Forces that the last occupational ban on women was in place. It was abolished in 1989, and only in 1994 did women receive military training without the requirement to continue as officers. It is important to remember that women were active in many of the voluntary defence organisations, especially the Lotta Corps, whose important work cannot be stressed enough, before they could do military service. It goes without saying that today we must continue to step up gender equality efforts and strive for a gender balance between women and men, even in our various defence activities. Today, the Swedish Armed Forces are quite good at highlighting women in their communication, both in text and in image. It is of course important to show young women who are considering military service that there are women within the Swedish Armed Forces to have as role models. At my own meetings and study visits during this half year in the Riksdag, I have also experienced that gender equality issues are handled very seriously and knowledgeably in the various activities. There are targeted initiatives, such as try-on weekends for women – something I myself have participated in and recommend. Making the Swedish Armed Forces more visible and comprehensible to the public is important in order to increase understanding of what a modern armed forces really are, and thus also the motivation to participate. Mr President, I would like to In the Left Party's motion on gender equality, we demand above all that the gender balance within the Swedish Armed Forces should be improved. This applies to everything from recruitment to the opportunity to move forward and make a career. Tackling the imbalance between women and men requires concrete action plans and targets, as well as serious work on finding ways to achieve the objectives. Here the Recruiting Authority has a very important role in finding and motivating the women who want to do military service. The Left Party is not alien because it may require positive action to increase the proportion of women within the Swedish Armed Forces. We believe that gender balance should be achieved by 2035. An important method for smoothing out the gender balance is to take responsibility for the work environment. The Swedish Armed Forces is a male-dominated workplace, and it is particularly important that women's work environment is free from both discrimination and harassment. In our motion we mention the metoo roll call that took place about a year and a half ago and where there was a special call for the Swedish Armed Forces. Reported violations must be taken very seriously, investigated and addressed. The Left Party believes that it is important that there are networks for women. They shall be encouraged and receive financial support for their activities. Mr President, I would like to Gender equality must not be about individual actions, but must be a priority, ongoing and long-term work. Equality within the Armed Forces must be increased, and the imbalance between the proportion of women and men in the operations must be changed so that we can really achieve the objectives of gender equality. As a member of the committee, I am very much looking forward to following this in the future.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-225	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that we Christian Democrats are behind our reservations in the field of Armed Forces personnel. For time winning, however, I only agree to reservation 3. The Swedish Armed Forces must have an ability and a composition that ensures an adequate defence of Sweden – a defence to ensure our freedom and democracy. The Christian Democrats believe that national defence needs to be substantially upgraded. A well-functioning human resources system is a crucial step in building a strong national defence. The staffing model against which the defence has leaned in recent years, based solely on voluntary activity, has been inadequate. The compulsory service system needed to be reintroduced, and it now needs to be further developed in order to fill existing units and set up new units within the Swedish Armed Forces. The development of the military service system is all the more important when the war organization is now to grow larger and stronger. That is what we Christian Democrats want to highlight in our motion. Mr President, I would like to Another vital part of the defence work is the voluntary defence organisations. The Christian Democrats believe that it is of the utmost importance for organisations to have the conditions necessary for their high-quality work to continue to develop. The voluntary defence organisations, like military service, contribute to strengthening the broad security work and to the popular support of the Swedish Armed Forces. By strengthening the approximately 30 NGOs operating in peacetime, the ability of the organisations to face serious events and crises will increase. For our country's security, it is important to strengthen both human resources and voluntary defence organisations. These are fundamental measures to ensure the security of our country, which is an important task in an increasingly troubled world.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-230	Mr President, I would like to In the report, the committee deals with issues such as staffing, staffing, gender distribution and other recruitment issues in defence. As has already been said, it is important to emphasise that it is primarily the Swedish Armed Forces that, within the framework of delegated state employers' policy, must design the agency's personnel supply. Several of the proposed changes to the activities should be considered in the context of work on a new defence policy, and I therefore assume that the Defence Committee will take these into account in its work. We can all say this, just as Lars Thomsson did before: Without staff, no defence! It is the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel who form the basis for the Swedish Armed Forces to carry out their tasks and commitments, and without a solid foundation it will soon shake. Mr President, I would like to For two days – Monday and Tuesday this week – I attended the Defence Conference in Skövde, where several of you sitting in this Chamber also attended. There are a few words that come up: together, cooperation, planning, follow-up, management and gender equality. There were participants from Must, Säpo, MSB, county boards, municipalities, the Swedish Armed Forces, the Home Guard, voluntary defence organisations and emergency services. Business representatives and investigators from two of the government's ongoing investigations also participated, and all representatives of the Defence Committee were present on Tuesday. It was clearly highlighted that clear coordination, planning and management are needed to cope with the present and future total defences. The personnel of the Swedish Armed Forces are important and necessary, but in order to create a robust and sustainable defence, the functions of society as a whole are needed. It's all connected. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to recruitment of personnel, the Swedish Armed Forces have major challenges. The gender neutral total defence obligation allows for a broader recruitment base consisting of both women and men, creating better conditions for staffing the armed forces. The committee believes that the issue of combating and dealing with harassment and violations is central if the Swedish Armed Forces are to be able to make full use of this opportunity. It is valuable for the agency to take measures to make its activities visible, not least in view of the fact that lack of information and knowledge about the Swedish Armed Forces has disadvantaged women to a greater extent than men. It is now very important that this work continues, not least in the light of the increasing number of young women and men under the Total Defence Obligations Act being signed up and enrolled for military basic training. The Government has entrusted both the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Agency with the task of contributing to achieving the objectives of gender equality policy. A broad recruitment basis is important for sustainable personnel supply and for the defence community. The Swedish Armed Forces must be able to take care of both voluntary applicants and employees for basic military training. It is the Swedish Armed Forces that, within the framework of delegated state employers' policy, will design the recruitment process to reach as many people as possible – and to all parts of Sweden – to lay the foundation for recruiting and also retain staff. Mr President, I would like to It is also important to safeguard the principle that, as has already been said, the social partners should be given the opportunity, in large part, to manage the rules of the labour market by signing collective agreements. This is a central starting point for the future. Since the defence is in a phase of growth, the committee assumes that the Swedish Armed Forces will continue to develop conditions, forms of employment and other incentives in such a way as to contribute to the Authority's attractiveness as an employer. This, too, has been expressed here in the past. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Armed Forces' employees and other personnel also participate in international military crisis management operations and in capacity building activities. Through these efforts, Sweden contributes to peace and security as well as to respect for international law, human rights and gender equality. The basic requirements for all those undergoing an officer's degree clearly emphasise the ability to assess both ethical aspects and human rights in professional practice. Mr President, I would like to It is positive that the Swedish Armed Forces, based on this basis, also have more specific training courses for international efforts to build up knowledge about how women and children are particularly vulnerable in conflicts. It is also necessary to learn about child soldiers, sex trafficking and abuse, which education covers. The Swedish Armed Forces have an explicit mission and reporting requirements to contribute to the implementation of Sweden's 2016 National Action Plan – 2020 on UN Security Council Resolutions on Women, Peace and Security. Mr President, I would like to The Home Guard and the voluntary defence organisations have an important role to play in creating peoples' roots and in contributing, through their activities and their human resources, to total defence and thus also to society's emergency preparedness. This has been clearly mentioned by several speakers today. Defence will is a word that is often highlighted in the talks I have with the Home Guard and the voluntary defence organisations. At the end of March, Mr President, I visited the basic training of car drivers in Villingsberg. The participants there showed a great commitment and a willingness to contribute to society's crisis preparedness. When I asked the participants what made them apply for this training, they responded, among other things, to the forest fires this summer and the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan here in Stockholm two years ago. These people, Mr President, are the very best examples of attracting more people to get involved. I left this education with a good feeling that we are there for each other when it comes to it. By all of us talking about how important it is to contribute when society is in crisis, we can also raise awareness that there is a place for everyone to help. Mr President, I would like to More comprehensive possible changes or priorities to voluntary activities, like so many of the issues raised in this report, should be considered in the context of work on a new defence policy. I would like to visualize a little bit about how important it is to have all the ingredients in place. Beatrice Ask has this under control. It's about baking. I don't bake much anymore. I don't always have time. When I think I'm gonna stand and bake, I take a recipe or something like that out of my head and start. But if I don't have all the ingredients in place, I have to reconsider while I'm picking things up, once I've made up my mind. We can't have that when we look at staff. We can't afford to reconsider, and we don't have time either. If we are to get a working total defence, the personnel of the Swedish Armed Forces are a great and important basis for this. Remember to have all the ingredients in place when you bake. Otherwise, it may take time. It takes time to reconsider.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-252	Mr President, I would like to There are many before Paula Holmqvist who have discussed staff policy and pointed out the importance of having staff. Without staff, it doesn't matter what equipment or training we have. In every sense, a good staff is the basis. At the same time, it has been stated – not only by me but also by others – that there are many problems. Among other things, we see that 50% of officers will retire over the next ten years. The recruitment of officers is very weak – out of the 16 training rounds that took place last year, only 3 of the applicants met the requirements. We also see that the measures taken have not had the desired effect and that instead of manning problems there is a manning crisis. Since I constantly noted that during their time in opposition, the Social Democrats felt that these issues were important, I had to ask what measures the government has now taken to address these problems. It is not only we in politics who point to the problem of staff shortages, but also among officers that it is difficult to put together whole units because there are not enough people. This fundamentally affects the safety of our kingdom. The issue is so important that I have to ask the representatives of the government here what measures have been taken to address this problem.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-258	Mr President, I would like to I can tell Jan Andersson that the government has taken quite a number of measures. First of all, it was decided to resume military service, which was suspended in 2010. The Government decided on 2 March 2017 to reintroduce military service. I think this is a huge step towards raising awareness, especially among many young people, that you can also apply voluntarily. We need to bring in people to sign up for jobs in the total defense. After all, the Moderates were in agreement with the decision to rest military service. It was a big step. We lost staff for quite a few years. People are also important, because if you do not know that you can contribute in society as a conscript or by entering a voluntary defence organisation or in the Home Guard, we lose quite a few. I believe that the decisions taken then, and also previous decisions, have put us in the situation that we are today. Unfortunately, in a very short time we cannot build up something that has been destroyed. As I said in my speech, building what we have dismantled is a challenge.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-262	Mr President, I would like to I note that the government's representatives respond to the question of how we overcome the lack of military officers. My reflection is that military service is the answer to a great many questions from the government, but it is still not possible to crawl away from the problems that exist. Now we are going to increase the number of trained conscripts, who have been at 2 000 for a while. Objective 4 000 was not achieved this year. The government has now decided to increase the target to 5 000. It is said that in the long term up to 80 000 conscripts will be trained annually. We all know that this means that you need officers, officers who today do not exist. 13 out of 16 training courses fail to recruit the necessary staff. You can't get officers into other ways, and you can't keep the officers that exist. Many times even those officers who want to work are not allowed to remain within the Swedish Armed Forces. The answer I get from the government's representatives to this is military service. To me, Mr President, it shows that you are not taking this issue seriously. We have proposed a series of measures, many other elements of the opposition as well. However, when we proposed, for example, that there should be training premiums, you turned and made it a deferred salary instead. I suppose that shows how seriously you take these questions. Let me rephrase the question: do you think, on the basis of the outcome that we can see today, that the measures taken by the government have been sufficient in recruiting and retaining officers within the Armed Forces?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-267	Mr President, I would like to I may well say, as I said in my speech, that the government has taken a number of measures. But it is the Swedish Armed Forces, together with Totalförsvarets recruitment authority, that is responsible for recruitment. Here it is important not to reduce the role of military service in the matter, for many of those who do military service actually stay and perhaps go to higher positions. It is a step in a direction that will give us more officers. I agree with Jan Andersson that it is a major problem that we are losing officers. But now the Swedish Armed Forces, as I understand it, have gone in and taken steps to bring back former officers to the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces are therefore taking steps to try to get officers back and keep them. Then, as I said, there is a major problem with retirement. We are also looking at many other professional areas of problems with maintaining staff.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-270	Mr President, I would like to I heard applause when I was on my way to the speaker's chair, but perhaps they were not meant for me. Mr President, I would like to We ask for the approval of reservation 4. We know that it takes time to build up what has been destroyed. One of the reasons why we will increase recruitment is, as we have been proposing for three years now, to open the recruitment office in Luleå. As the head of the North Military Region and the head of F 21 say, it is the most important factor in increasing recruitments, and you are still saying no. Today you have the chance to change your mind, but the vote on this might be tomorrow. The military is in charge. Yes, but when you talk to different generals, you hear that they have different ideas about how to build the defense. There are different perceptions of the fast track into the officer's profession. There is a letter in the Officers' newspaper about this that actually talks about what we have been saying for a number of years, that there will be an A and a B team. When there are more conscripts, I think you should also have an extended recruitment base from the conscripts, as it used to be. You do military service and can then apply for permanent employment. It is advantageous to go back to this. This also means having conscripts who do not have what we previously called a matriculation examination. I had a three-year real degree myself. So that I could continue on the officers' line, I had to add science, math and physics. I got a year, came back and took a exam, and then I got to go to the officer's training. It's another way into the profession. With this, as I said, I am in favour of reservation 4.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-274	Mr President, I would like to From defense to family – an exciting throw in the debate! Family law governs the legal status of the family and the obligations and rights of family members. The legislation is intended to protect children, among other things. At the same time, the law of family law is such that it enters the private sphere of the family. It is important for us as legislators to ensure that the legislation provides the protection and support that society wants to provide. At the same time, legislation should not unduly restrict and affect families. When society and the ways in which people form a family change, legislation must follow. As family constellations may differ, policies should adapt to this. Although it is anecdote, we have probably all heard stories about new parents who are living together but not married, who are called to social services to establish paternity and who experience some of the questions that are being asked as offensive. For both children and parents, it would be better if today's presumption of paternity equated cohabitation with marriage, given that many children are born today in relationships where the parents are living together but not married. Another necessary modernisation is to review legislation on the presumption of parenthood in order to make it gender neutral. It would also be desirable to be able to make parenthood confirmation before a child is born. There's a lot to deal with when you're a new parent. For the safety of both the child and the parents, it would be better to do this before the baby is born. This should, of course, apply to divorced and same-sex couples, whether married or not. When a woman in a same-sex couple has children through assisted fertilization, her spouse, registered partner or cohabiting partner cannot become a parent in the sense of law before parenthood is established. This means that you as a parent can end up in a situation without rights when you cannot claim parental benefit, shared custody during separation, etc. Parenthood should therefore be established as early as possible. The study proposes a gender-neutral presumption of parenthood if the couple are married – i.e. whether they are couples of the same or different sex. That would be a good step along the way. The referral period for this investigation ended at the end of February, so now we hope that the government will quickly return to Parliament with proposals for amended legislation. The Riksdag has previously decided that the Government will review the matter, and it is time for the Government to deliver and return to the Riksdag with proposals for changes. Madam President, I would like Today there are many children in Sweden who have been created through surrogate arrangements abroad. The number of children born as a result of such arrangements is likely to increase in the future. These children are entitled to the same legal security as other children. There have been some positive changes in legislation that have provided greater security to children who have come about through surrogate arrangements abroad, but a comprehensive review of the legislation in this area is needed to further clarify and strengthen the legal security of these children. The government should get to grips with it and review the issue. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, a marriage often fails and one or both parties to the marriage want to divorce. The legislation we have today on divorce was introduced in the 1970s. The amendments made were aimed at simplifying the divorce procedure. For example, there is no requirement to provide any specific basis for the divorce and the spouses do not have to live apart for a certain period of time before they can get a divorce. However, we believe that further modernisation is needed. We therefore propose that the reflection period be abolished for the situation where only one spouse requests divorce and there are no children under the age of 16 in the picture. This would have several advantages, not least in marriages where one spouse has been subjected to violence or violations of another kind. Madam President, I would like Divorce is not a fun process. It can be hard for everyone involved. Today, a division of property can be delayed, and it can be economically difficult and difficult for those involved. Economic development, freedom of the individual and new family constellations make the conditions in many areas of family law different today than when regulation was introduced. In view of today's changing situation, there is therefore reason to evaluate the existing rules on settlement and to examine whether the settlement process can be made faster and more efficient. Where there are children in the family, it is important that the issue of child custody can be resolved as smoothly as possible. Children in prolonged custody disputes are at risk of harm. We Moderates believe that parents who are considering starting a dispute before a court should first turn to an expert in social services, for example, to get information about what the court process means, and alternative ways to resolve the conflict should be offered. It is important to appoint mediators as early as possible in the court proceedings and that the children should have the right to be heard in the proceedings regardless of whether the parents think so or not. Consideration should also be given to how family members other than parents who can support their children will be better able to associate with them. It may be grandparents, bonus parents and other relatives that are important for children's development. Madam President, I would like Economic development, the freedom of the individual and new family constellations make the conditions for the right of inheritance different today from when the law came into force. In view of today's changing situation, there is reason to evaluate also the rules concerning the right of orphans and surviving spouses to inheritance. There is a need to examine whether the rules need to be modernised in the light of the conflicts that may arise, for example, from an inheritance. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, we support all our reservations, but in order to save time at voting time, I only ask for reservation No 2.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-289	Madam President, I would like I have learned that Norway is in many ways a pioneer country. In addition to introducing modern rules for marriage and custody disputes, they have also been wise enough to retain the right of inheritance for cousins. There is reason for Sweden to reconsider the decision to remove the right of inheritance for cousins. The 1928 decision is simply out of date and out of date. First of all, the number of cousins each person has decreased in number. At that time, between six and ten siblings were not uncommon, and it could then be 20 - 30 cousins. This compares with today's about two siblings, which means that the number of cousins has fallen to between three and six people, which is more manageable. Thus, one of the arguments that caused the removal of the right of inheritance of cousins has now been cancelled. In the 1928 bill it was said that since the cousins are often large and in these cases, when the will does not exist, they are usually small estates, the inheritance will be divided into small parts. ..................................................... Today, rather, the person who dies and has no closer relatives than cousins who can inherit also has closer ties to their cousins because it is actually that person's whole family. It is therefore not comparable with persons who have closer relatives who are also heirs and who then go before cousins in the succession. Another reason that cousins will not inherit, which no longer exists, was the difficulty of tracking cousins who emigrated, when large parts of Sweden's population had moved abroad and people still dreamed of meeting happiness on the other side of the Atlantic. Today, even on the other side of the Atlantic, it is not difficult to contact cousins who settle in another country. It would not be very difficult to send money or other inheritances. Moreover, Sweden is no longer a country of emigration as we were a hundred years ago, so the problem itself is not there. In 1928, a change in the succession rights of cousins introduced the General Heritage Fund. It would defend what it felt that all those who died wanted their estate to be done, that is, what is described as the upbringing and upbringing of the progeny. It was considered obvious that this was what the dead man wanted his estate to be done. The bill also included a special fund for the promotion of children's and young people's care and education. Now that the General Heritage Fund is using lawyers and the judiciary to annul wills and grab inheritances from estates, a change in the succession seems to be even more long awaited. I am not going to go into this speech with all the strange organisations that receive money from the public inheritance fund, but it is often far from the original idea of the money being used for the maintenance and upbringing of the growing race. Some examples of the money goes to golf clubs, water skiing clubs, and lesbian associations – the list can be made long. There are many more or less dubious associations that today receive money from the National Heritage Fund. However, I want to talk about more than this, and I end this part by encouraging the reintroduction of cousins' inheritance rights. Madam President, I would like Another thing I would like to spend some time talking about is child marriage. On 1 January, the new law to prevent child marriage began to apply. However, it only prevents the registration of children's marriages. So it is still possible to be married to a child in Sweden. There are a number of different ways in which you can be married to a child in Sweden. We have the marriages that existed in Sweden before 1 January 2019. They were registered then and still exist. In 2016, 132 children were identified in Sweden who were married. 65 of them were in Malmö. Some of them were as young as 14. So the 14 - year - old is somewhere between 16 and 17 today and still married. That we should have that order was defended last autumn by the fact that we cannot have retroactive legislation. I find that extremely strange. When children were banned in 1979, children born before 1979 were also involved. Anyone who had children before that would not be allowed to continue to chastise their children. However, a completely different assessment is made of child marriage. Another way is children who come here and are married. They cannot register the marriage after 1 January of this year, at least until they are 18 years of age. But their marriage may well remain as an unofficial marriage. And some special measures against unofficial marriages have not been taken directly. There is also an obvious risk that the girl is lying about her age in order to be registered as a married person. It is contrary to the brothers who usually lie to be regarded as children. There are also children who are married away in Sweden without the marriage being registered with the Swedish Tax Agency. Seriously, we have areas where the police do not dare to go in without having an extra patrol with them to watch the car, where virtually all business is controlled by criminals or has closed and where a person can have his throat cut without anyone testifying to what has happened. Do you think that people who live in these areas are sleepless at night out of concern that their daughter's marriage will not be registered with the Tax Agency? I don't think so. There are also cases where one simply takes the child to another country and marries that away. The child can return to Sweden and continue to live in an unofficial marriage. You don't register it with the IRS. The registration of the Swedish Tax Agency is of very little importance. I have already gone over time and intend to conclude my speech by stating that Gambia introduced a ban on child marriage in 2016. In doing so, they also imposed a punishment, a clear prison sentence, on those who violate the ban. The prison sentence is directed against parents who allow their child to be married away. That we should have worse conditions in Sweden I find shameful. I shall conclude by calling for reservation 19 in paragraph 15. For time winning, I do not plead for the approval of all our other reservations. We've got a whole pack.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-304	Madam President, I would like My entry into family law is always to look after the child's best interests. Today we have legislation that needs to be modernised and developed to work in the time we live in. Anyone who has a child without being married must today report to the Social Services who is the father. I think it is good that we agree that digital technology should be used for this in the future. This way you should also be able to report who is the father even before the child is born. Today, more than 45 000 children who do not have married parents are born each year. By removing the requirement for two witnesses, we make it easier for parents and also save resources in social services. It is important that the child has the right to both of his or her parents and that he or she already has it when he or she is born. Therefore, it is important to submit the confirmation during pregnancy. When the child is born, the parents can also be legally established. Otherwise, if the worst thing happens, the mother dies during childbirth, the child has no guardian during the early days of life. As a result, in some cases the father has had to fight with the grandparents about what is best for the child. Madam President, I would like As I said, children are entitled to both their parents. That is why we in the Center Party believe that once you have indicated who is the father, he will also automatically be given custody of the child. Why should you report that there should be joint custody? What kind of signals do we send? Are we saying that joint custody of the children is not self-evident? I think that the focus on the child's right to both parents is clearer if there is automatically joint custody when you report who is the father of the child. In fact, we have an out-of-date view that if the parents are not married, you do not live together and the child may not be wanted by both parents. The family is a positive thing, but some families choose to go their separate ways. Then it is again important to keep the child's perspective. In custody disputes, we need to focus on the parents' ability to cooperate on the child instead of the parents' potential inability. That's the only way we can move forward. It is important to reflect on how we bring out the child's will in this context. For some children whose adults choose to separate, it causes the child to lose contact with other important adults in life. It can be about grandparents, but it can also be about social parents, adults who have lived in the same household. For the benefit of the child, it is important that they remain in the child's life, even in the event of separation. We therefore want to look at how to strengthen the role of the social parent in separations. It is the duty of the guardian to ensure that the child is able to meet those who are important, regardless of the parents' current relationship. Here, social services also have a role to strengthen it if the child's needs are not met. As I said, family law needs to be reviewed and modernised. This is just part of it. Madam President, I would like Another aspect of the report in which the Center Party has reservations is the area of goodwill. A good man shall preserve right, manage property and provide for the person. This also applies to unaccompanied refugee children. Then the good man must also follow the migration process, ensure the child's personal circumstances and ensure that the child receives care and security. Finding the right people for these missions is not easy. It is no longer a question of helping an elderly person who may be demented to pay bills, but of being a safety net for the most vulnerable in society. These are people with disabilities, people who can be violent or, as I said, children who have fled all over Europe. The Swedish National Audit Office has previously pointed to the need for education, some central authority that can ensure supervision and that you need to look at which parts of the goodwill can be professionalised. The Center Party believes that the government needs to raise its ambitions and priorities in order to review the whole of the system. We need to prepare and improve to ensure that those most vulnerable in society receive the support they need, whether it is a person with a mental disability, a demented person or an unaccompanied refugee child. The people who are good men today often do an amazing volunteer job and are important to the people who get their help. But we need to look at how the compensation works, what training and support is offered and how we ensure recruitment while at the same time having good, effective supervision. It is precisely the goodwill of unaccompanied refugee children that, in our view, could be professionalised, in order to help them to have legal redress in the migration process, while at the same time ensuring their security and ensuring that their opportunities for contact with civil society work. Madam President, I would like As I said, the children's perspective is important to me. I want to see a modern family law that starts with the children, and I want us to review the goodwill so that we protect the most vulnerable in society. The Centre Party supports all the reservations, but for reasons of time, I am only in favour of reservation 22.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-320	Madam President, I would like I can't help asking for a line on the government base. As I mentioned earlier, there are still a number of child marriages in Sweden. Exactly how many people don't really know. But the Center Party has actually taken a stand in favour of the current order. The Center Party does not support the law against child marriage that we want and that would mean criminal liability or the dissolution of child marriages that exist in Sweden today and that we know about. In previous debates, members of the Center Party have pointed out that the law must absolutely not be retroactive. It must therefore not apply to children who have already entered into marriage. I would therefore like to remind you of what I also mentioned in the speaker's chair just now: the law against child abuse was introduced in 1979, and it applied retroactively. Is it the Center's view that it was wrong that the law against child abuse should apply retroactively? Or is there a difference between child marriage that exposes children to being part of a child marriage and exposing children to child abuse? It is clear that there is a possible physical difference, but I do not really see why these issues are distinguished in the way that the Center Party obviously does.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-323	Madam President, I would like I do not think that legislation should be retroactive, no matter what legislation we are talking about. You're making a comparison with child aga. If this law were to be retroactive, people who had done something before would be judged. It is when legislation has come into force that we can start judging people for breaking the law. We fully agree that children should not be married. But on principle, I do not want retroactive legislation. There are many different areas where one can think about how we can change the legislation for things that we thought were okay 50 years ago but which are not today. However, I do not think it is okay with child marriage and do not want more to be registered.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-325	Madam President, I would like When it comes to child marriage, I think that one can very well set a date and say: From this date children are no longer married in Sweden. Point. This was against the Center Party, as this would be retroactive. In my world, this is not retroactive. It is not a case of judging someone because he has previously married a child. But when you set a date you say that from this date no children in Sweden are married anymore. If you find children in Sweden who are married, you dissolve these marriages and connect social services to ensure that these children get somewhere where they can live and who are not with the man they have been married to, because child marriages will no longer exist. But this was not something that the Center Party wanted to support, but they wanted to basically just forget these 132 children in Sweden that we know of are married. It seems to be hoped that time will mean that these are no longer children and that the problem will end, instead of helping children, that is, young women and girls, who are married away. Child marriage is rarely voluntary. That would be a myth. I wonder why the Center Party does not want to do anything for these children.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-328	Madam President, I would like There is an incredible amount to work with so that children don't get hurt. As you know, there are children who live in a worse situation than we want. But you were in your own speech that there are many different ways to deal with this. You choose to marry your child away but do not register your marriage in Sweden. It's about working much wider around the issues. You can support the children and make the family understand that this is not a way of living that is accepted in Sweden. There are municipalities, such as Flen in Sörmland, where you work very much to meet these children and young people at an early stage and notice that something is about to happen. Together with school, social services and leisure activities, you can work around the family to strengthen children's rights. When it comes to children who get hurt in Sweden, social services can go in and work with them to make sure they don't get hurt. I still do not want retroactive legislation, but I stand by my opinion. But we need to be much better at working to prevent children from getting hurt in Sweden, for whatever reason.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-331	I would like to remind you that we do not use you in the speaker's chair. We use first and last names.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-332	Madam President, I would like Making a relationship work is not always easy. You build something together with another person, but as the years pass, reasons arise that make you feel the need to separate. At one end it can be about false feelings, at the other end of what we in society have not managed to overcome: men's violence against women. Divorce can be difficult and difficult when it comes to houses, cars, furniture and other things of economic value. It can get worse if there are children in the picture. Children have not chosen the situation but still have to go on the tours. Various studies show that custody disputes have increased in recent years. In Halland, from which I come, the number of cases decided in court has doubled in eight years. For children who are in a custody dispute, the impact may be great. It's not always easy to be small. The last major changes to the custody rules were decided by the Riksdag in spring 2006 and entered into force on 1 July of the same year. The amendments aimed, in particular, at strengthening the child perspective in legislation. The risk of harm to the child was highlighted, and the so-called risk assessment to be carried out by the court and social services was further emphasised. Madam President, I would like The 2014 custody investigation has been tasked with evaluating the 2006 custody reform. The mission has resulted in the report See the Child! During the consultation, the report received widespread criticism from several heavy players, including the Ombudsman for Children, for not distinguishing between custody conflicts with and without violence, among other things. In some cases, children have been forced to marry a father whom they have seen abuse the mother, even though it is not in the best interests of the child. The report was also criticised for having serious shortcomings in the child perspective, despite the title of the report. The investigation has not reviewed the laws and regulations regarding housing and social relations, but has focused entirely unilaterally on custody issues. Since its submission, it has not produced any new legislative proposals. As many consultation bodies have said, there is a great need for legislative changes, not least to strengthen the children's perspective. In order to determine whether the legislative changes have had the intended effect, the application of the new custody rules by courts and social services should be continuously evaluated. This is necessary in order to be able to assess whether the legislator's intention with the amendments is fulfilled, i.e. that the best interests of the individual child should be met in judgments and decisions on custody, housing and relations. The practical application of custody rules should therefore be reviewed. Madam President, I would like When the parents argue about custody, housing or court relations, they are usually represented by each of their agents. Often the legal process will be about justice being done between the parents while the child, who is actually the main character, is being obscured. In order for the child's right and the principle of the child's best interests to be taken seriously, we believe that children should be entitled to a lawyer who is disconnected from the parents and their potential assistants. A child representative would have an interest in the interests of the individual child and would rely solely on the best interests of the child and the child's views in his arguments before the court. The Left Party believes that every child should have a clear and explicit right to express his or her views in disputes concerning custody, housing and social relations. An unconditional right for children to speak on these issues is fully in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. We believe that even small children have views about their life situation that are worth taking seriously. The right to own legal counsel benefits all children whose parents argue about custody, housing or association, and especially those children who are in harm's way. Furthermore, a child representative would lead to more informed decisions that actually take into account the child's wishes, making them easier to implement. I call for the Left Party's reservation 15 to be approved.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-343	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is putting forward a number of proposals here, not just about having representatives in court. I myself have some doubts about this case of attorneys in the courts, because there are also five judges there who are supposed to look after the child's best interests. I don't really see what another person would do for good. But what I really want to ask Jon Thorbjörnson is this with more than two guardians, for whom you have reserved. It feels a bit like the idea behind it is: The more the merrier. But is it that well thought out? Jon Thorbjörnson himself was on the subject of children getting hurt by custody disputes. How difficult is a custody dispute between three, four, five or more guardians? I myself believe that two guardians are optimal on the basis of many conditions. And that doesn't really say anything about the right of access. You still have the right to associate with a child even if you are not a guardian. It is possible for a child to connect to more people. However, if the child has several guardians, the visitation time is divided up on them, and this may reduce the time spent with the biological parents. If you have four guardians instead of two to divide the time, it will be half the time for people who are not biological parents. Is it always the best thing for the child? I'm having a hard time seeing it. But I would like to hear more about this with more than two guardians and how it is supposed to work in, for example, custody disputes.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-346	Madam President, I would like As things stand today, a child cannot have more than two legal guardians. Many children, however, grow up with several social parents. These may be children whose biological parents live in same-sex relationships or children whose biological parents are separated. A social parent can be as important to the child as a biological parent. Under current regulations, the child's guardian is responsible for ensuring that the child's need for relations with someone who is particularly close but is not a legal parent is met as far as possible. To the extent that the lack of access is due to the lack of responsibility of the guardian, it is an important task for the social services to try to get the guardian to take care of the child's needs. There are many adults who can be good for the child during childhood. The problem is not that there are too many adults in the child's vicinity. Maybe there's too few. If this does not succeed, the court may decide, on an action by the social welfare board, on relations with the child for someone other than a parent. I do not think that this regulation of the child's right of association with those who are particularly close to him cannot be considered sufficient in relation to social parents.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-350	Madam President, I would like For me, the child's best interests and the child's right of origin are among the most important things to constantly protect. For us, we always assume that no one has the right to have children. On the other hand, the child is entitled to his or her parents. But I don't think I got a very specific answer about the time I spent with the biological parents. It risks becoming smaller if you have more than two guardians. If you bring in guardians who are not parents, you have the concern that the term of custody should be divided into more people. Many parents who have divorced have children every two weeks. If there are more guardians involved, you might have the children every four weeks instead. I don't feel like Jon Thorbjörnson and the Left Party have really thought about this proposal. It is easy to say that it is good for the child to have several adults to relate to. But the right to visit still exists. If so, the right of access would be strengthened with people other than parents. It is also the case that all guardians must agree on whether the child should, for example, change school. If there are three or four guardians, there is a risk that a guardian will get involved, perhaps because the relationship has ended or because for other reasons the child's education is no longer the same. It could cause great concern for a child not to be able to switch schools because one of the guardians opposes it — a guardian who may hardly even sees the child anymore because of the division of custody of so many people.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-354	Madam President, I would like It feels good that both me and Mikael Eskilandersson have the best interests of the child in mind. That's a good common goal. Mikael Eskilandersson wonders how the time will be sufficient for all guardians. I cannot stand here and talk about the exact percentage distribution that should apply between different parents. I can only say that a large network for children is good. I don't see my son and daughter all hours of the day, even if I'm the guardian of them and have them at home. When it comes to the problem of which school a child should attend, it is good that we have proposals for that in our reservation. We suggest that the guardian's decision-making rights in matters relating to care and school for the child should be placed on only one guardian after a court decision. It's for the good of the child. There should not be a struggle for school, care and care for the child because of disputes.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-357	Madam President, I would like The family is the natural and fundamental unity of society and has the right to the protection of society and the state. Well-functioning families based on mutual love and trust are crucial for children and the future of society. A family where one cares for one another and provides a framework to stay within is incredibly important for the children's continued way forward through life. All children need frames, and it is the parents who should give them. Society must support those parents. When the family fails, it is the municipality's task to support the family socially and financially in carrying out its tasks and duties. By law, the public shall respect the family's sphere and rights. The family should not be deprived of its natural tasks, but instead be given the conditions and, if necessary, social and financial support to be able to carry them out independently and safely. The most obvious obligation is to take care of children and be responsible for their development into adulthood. The most obvious responsibility for the municipality is to be able to support and educate adults in parenting. Not all families work as we wish. The municipality must then support and look after the best interests of the child and not always for the benefit of the individual parent. Investigation See the child! , which Jon Thorbjörnson very well talked about in the speaker's chair, had the purpose of evaluating the 2006 custody reform. The assessment of the investigation is that the custody reform has been successful in many respects. The perspective on children's rights has been strengthened. Children now speak to a greater extent than before. Risk assessments are carried out to a greater extent than before the reform. In more than 90% of the cases, the social welfare committees submit proposals for decisions on the custody issue. However, it is also noted that there are grounds for some changes to the legislation to prevent children from being harmed by their parents' conflicts. The report should be further prepared within the Government Office, and the Riksdag announced to the Government in 2017 what the Government should pay particular attention to in the forthcoming legislative work regarding, among other things, children's and children's rights perspectives and measures against social harassment. The report proposes a great deal of improvements to family law regulation. Among other things, parents who are considering starting a dispute about children should first contact the Social Welfare Board for a mandatory information call and that the child's right to relevant information and its right to express their views freely and to have them taken into account should be clarified in the parental code. It is important for us that the proposed improvements be implemented. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that too many separations lead to disputes. It should be the starting point for each parent to avoid these disputes as far as possible. In addition, unlike the 2014 custody inquiry, I believe that the rights of the child in matters of custody, housing or access should be strengthened by introducing an opportunity for the court to appoint a legal counsel for the child. The fact that the child, who is very much affected by these conflicts, does not have anyone who speaks for its rights and views is, in my view, frightening. It must take the ultimate consequence in many cases, but it cannot properly express its opinion. It is surely a point of view that no one can be against, and it should be supported by all parties in Parliament. I believe that the government should be able to take the necessary initiatives to make this possible. I am also pleased that the rights of the child are strengthened by the fact that we are eventually getting the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law. Then I am very pleased that together we can modernise the regulations on the confirmation of paternity for unmarried people. It is an important reform, not least for the individual child. Since it is a united committee, I hope that the government, with support parties, will be able to give priority to this issue and that we will receive a proposal for Parliament's table as soon as possible. We also agree on the registration of wills in a register, which should facilitate in many situations and is a modern way of managing wills. It is also a security for the writer of the will that it is handled properly. I'm sure we can discuss who's going to pay that cost, but let the public do it from the start. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse reservation 16.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-367	Madam President, I would like The third article of the Convention on the Rights of the Child reads: The Liberals want this to apply clearly in Sweden as well. I would therefore like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 18. Madam President, I would like From a liberal perspective, it is obvious that everyone regardless of age is both given and allowed to take place in society. Even children should feel that they can safely grow as people and develop to take responsibility for themselves, their fellow human beings and their surroundings. At the same time, we know that the reality is very different from what we would like when it comes to what children have access to and what we manage to protect them from. For example, school results, well-being and security in the neighbourhood are issues that we need to work on. The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has expressed concern about the local and regional differences that exist in Sweden. It is therefore necessary to take a strong stance in the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Sweden. Liberals have long fought for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become Swedish law, and this will finally happen on 1 January 2020. There are many international conventions that Sweden has signed, but the Convention on the Rights of the Child is particularly important because it regulates the rights of people who have not yet grown up and are not yet able to take their own action and decide over their own lives. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is a cornerstone of the Swedish policy on children's rights and entails important obligations for Sweden and for Swedish authorities. Although it is already legally binding in international law, it is a very important statement that the Riksdag has decided that it will become Swedish law. Madam President, I would like It is of the utmost importance that the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child into the law is carried out in a well-thought-out manner. The Convention needs to be incorporated in a way that makes the consequences clear and predictable. Only then can the provisions of the Convention be applied uniformly and effectively in everyday life. Implicit transposition where the relationship between the articles of the Convention and other parts of Swedish law is not clarified can risk damaging children's rights policy. Therefore, the perspective of children's rights should be clarified in other legislation now that the Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes law. For example, the parental code should be supplemented by a child's code where the starting point is the best interests of the child rather than the interests of the parents. Children's right to support and support, such as those currently governed by the Social Services Act, should be brought together in a special law.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-376	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask you something different from what Henrik Edin was talking about. There is a reservation about surrogate motherhood and making it easier to use surrogate mothers in other countries that the Liberals have in the report. Let me first say that I understand that the desire for children is strong. I understand that you want your own children with biological connections to yourself. I also understand that the governments of other countries prohibit trade in women's bodies as they have done in both India and Thailand. What I do not understand is why Swedish politicians with knowledge of how ill these women are often feeling and treated can submit reservations and propagate to make it easier to buy women abroad. For example, buying a woman in the United States costs about SEK 500,000. Earlier when one could buy in India the price was like a surrogate mother there got somewhere between 30 000 and 60 000 kroner. However, India has now banned trafficking in women's bodies. Nowadays, many Swedish couples turn to Ukraine because in Ukraine it is about half the price compared to the United States. There is talk of 250 000 – 300 000 SEK to hire a Ukrainian surrogate mother. Given the Liberals' reservation, I wonder: What do the Liberals think is a fair price for a woman's body?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-382	Madam President, I would like What can I say? What we reserve ourselves for and push for politics is actually that things should go well. It will work to have an altruistic host motherhood. Of course, it is not a question of having an exploitation situation, but of having consent. An important and central part of liberalism is that it is about the individual's freedom to control his own life. That goes for everyone, of course. We do not make a difference if you live in Sweden or if you live in the USA, for example, as Mikael Eskilandersson mentions. They are really the only thing I have to add about it.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-384	Madam President, I would like It's supposed to work, and the Liberals don't make any values of it. The reason Ukraine has become the country that is now the country to which Swedish couples and other couples in the Nordic countries turn to get their hands on surrogate mothers is that Ukraine's economy has collapsed. It simply takes advantage of the fact that Ukrainian women are more vulnerable than other women. Ukrainian women are desperate and find it difficult to find other ways to make a living. One way to make a living and quickly get a lot of money is to rent out your body for nine months. Hundreds of women's rights organizations from Asia, Europe, North America and South America, among others, demanded a global ban on surrogate motherhood. They did so only in September. At that time they demanded that the UN raise a global ban in the General Assembly. I wonder: how do the Liberals view this? Can you imagine backing a global ban on surrogate motherhood?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-388	Madam President, I would like What I have already said is that it is altruistic host motherhood, that is to say that we should not market this. I think it's important to emphasise this, because now Mikael Eskilandersson makes it sound like the Liberals are basically in favour of human trafficking – and I've never heard anything so absurd. It is certainly not about this, but much of the policy that is in our reservations is really simply about strengthening the opportunity to do this in a good way precisely so that people do not get caught up in harm's way.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-390	Madam President, I would like Now we are approaching the end of the family justice debate. This is the first comprehensive debate on this subject in the parliamentary term. Former speakers have explained the announcements that the committee has chosen to propose and other issues that they think are important. I'll do the latter, too. But first I want to say something else. In the run-up to this debate, I listened to the corresponding debate held by the Committee on Civil Liberties a year ago. I believe that many of us, including those of us who are involved in politics, feel that politics sometimes takes a long time. Nevertheless, the title of the previous debate was a reminder and confirmation that improvements are being made all the time. We change laws so that they conform to today's views, and thus we improve society step by step. A year ago, the important issues of not making it possible to recognise marriages for minors in Sweden and to set up an investigation to abolish polygamy were debated. Since then, the bill that removes the possibility for young people under the age of 18 to be counted as married has entered into force. The Act entered into force on 1 January this year. An investigation is also set up with the goal of doing the same with polygamous marriages. It is working fully and will report its results by January 2020. So what was fairly debated then, a year ago, is now on the roll. I take it as simple proof that we are achieving very important things in this House. In addition, on these issues we agreed that this would and will be done. It feels good when it comes to questions of this caliber. Madam President, I would like I would now like to talk about the child perspective in family law, and perhaps especially the issues of custody and association. During the months that I have served on the Civil Committee and been responsible for these issues, I have met staff on a number of family dishes and in other bodies that work with children's and young people's rights. Everyone tells me about different varieties of examples when they think that today's legislation and its interpretation lack a child's perspective. This has also been pointed out several times by the previous speaker. In plain language, this means that the interests of adults often take precedence over the interests of children. The fact that it looks like that may not be surprising, given the way history has looked. Of course, parts of today's legislation reflect this: Adults usually think they know best. I do not understand why we do not have legislation today in which children can say no to dealing with a parent they do not want to see, even if other adults think they should. I understand that it may sound radical, but anyone who knows children knows that from a very early age they have the right firm ideas about things. I have a concrete example of a difficult situation for a child whom I have been told back by staff on a family law. There are times when a parent lives with protected identity after threats or violence or both from the other parent. The child lives with the parent with a protected identity, as the other parent has not been deemed suitable to have custody. Nevertheless, the child should have relations with the parent who has threatened and perhaps beaten the other parent. The child is sometimes driven long distances to meet the other parent together with the staff supervising the association. The child must then guard his tongue in order not to say anything that could reveal where the child lives with the other parent. For example, the child cannot mention the name of his teacher. You can't tell me what football team you beat up last weekend or what kind of fun playground you've been visiting lately. For all such information can reveal where you live. It's a pretty heavy yoke on a child's shoulders. There are also times when a parent who has been convicted of abuse of children some year later gets custody of them on the grounds that the other parent has not done all it can to facilitate their association. Perhaps that parent has seen that the children feel very bad and really do not want to see their other parent. It can be for different reasons, but the child really doesn't want to. I imagine it is difficult for a parent to force a child to do something that makes the child feel bad and perhaps fear. We have children who have had to live with parents arguing about custody throughout their childhood, and this is becoming more common. I realise, of course, that issues relating to custody and relations with children are some of the most difficult that we have, because there are many involved and everyone thinks they are right. Of course, it rockes many emotions. What I want to say is that the one it is most about, that is, the child, should have a greater focus and greater participation than it has today. Precisely how it could look, I do not have the answers, but it is important that we all push for it. I understand from previous speakers in the debate here that we have a great common interest in this, and I am pleased. The issues of custody and children's and parents' rights have been investigated. I have looked at the report called See the Child! , which has been mentioned before and which I think contains very many wise thoughts. We will work to ensure that as many of them as possible also become reality. I have been talking to the government, which has told me that they intend to come up with new proposals in this area for more modern legislation based on investigation and report. The government is starting this work now, and we from the Riksdag will of course follow this closely in all our different roles. In addition, the investigation will review how the Convention on the Rights of the Child will be implemented and become Swedish law. This, of course, also matters here, which I thought Henrik Edin of the Liberals described in a good way. Children should simply not be harmed. Children's interest is always more important than that of adults. Before I round off, I would like to tell you that the government will soon announce the investigation that will review the system of good men and trustees, that is, what the Center Party talked about and which was also raised in the debate last year. I think this is great and important. People who need help and support in their everyday lives should of course get it in the best way. That is why I am looking forward to this, and I think many people agree with me on this. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-407	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have supported our common position that it will be easier for fathers to register their paternity. Elin Lundgren said in the speaker's chair that sometimes things don't seem to go so fast. I can agree with that, given that one of the first decisions I made when I entered Parliament in 2014, because just over four years ago, was just an announcement to the government that fathers could register their paternity before the child was born. Now the investigation that has been carried out does not support the possibility of registering paternity before birth. But other countries, such as Finland and Norway, have already introduced such legislation. In Norway, there is also joint custody when the child is born, which I think should be a reasonable way to go. If fatherhood can now be registered earlier, joint custody should also be introduced. I would like to hear the views of the Social Democrats on this. Is it reasonable to register your paternity before the child is born? It is a little bit unclear in the position that the committee is taking today. And if it makes sense, is it also reasonable for both parents to have joint custody of the joint child?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-411	Madam President, I would like I'm gonna make it a little easy for me in this line shift. The referral to the investigation on this, New rules on paternity and parenthood, came in at the end of February. I do not intend to anticipate the government's handling of this important issue.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-412	Madam President, I would like Yes, that really was a nonsensical answer. One might wonder why it has taken four years to come up with an investigation. Unfortunately, we do not get an answer on how to look at it. I could in itself raise another subject, but I think I choose to finish there.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-413	Madam President, I would like I don't see any reason why I shouldn't do it, too.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-414	Madam President, I would like Getting pregnant is something really special for most women. Maybe you've tried and hoped for a while, maybe it'll come as a surprise. Either way, there are few things in life that are so revolutionary as to become pregnant. And right at that moment when the stick shows the right number of lines, you're considered the baby's mother. We all agree on that. However, the father does not become a father in the eyes of the law until many months later, when the baby is born, which of course is very strange. If the parents are married, the husband automatically becomes a father when the child is born, but if the parents are unmarried, you must go to social services today in order to have paternity confirmed. The method used there is outdated and is perceived as offensive by many parents. The report 'New rules on paternity and parenthood' proposes some simplifications which the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs now supports, which is a good thing, but the investigation still believes that paternity should be confirmed only when the child is born. Some of the problems that exist today will still exist. For example, there is a risk that something happens to the mother at the end of a pregnancy or that she dies during childbirth. Then the child is completely without guardian when it is born if the parents are unmarried. The Swedish Democrats want men to be able to participate in pregnancy in real life. Otherwise, the government is very keen to go in and poke into the everyday lives of families and control how we take our parental leave. But when it comes to letting the father be a part of the pregnancy, there are no suggestions at all, which I find remarkable. However, I note that the representatives of the Moderates in their speech here today also wanted paternity to be established as early as possible. And in Moderates' exercise on the subject, it is written that it should possibly be made possible. It is good that the Moderates are now clearer in their opinion. In fact, it is something that I can ask of the Moderates for more questions. Usually there are two about having children, and it is obvious that even the father should be able to fully be part of this amazingly exciting time, follow the ultrasound and also legally be regarded as the child's father as soon as the pregnancy is confirmed. There are currently no medical examinations on paternity unless there are special reasons. Being able to report who is the father of the child, even digitally, should be a matter of course in our modern society. Today, about two children are born with unmarried parents. Apart from the fact that an unmarried man does not automatically count as a father of his own child, he does not automatically acquire custody of the child, even if paternity is established. This system puts children in some cases at risk of losing their father only because this is the mother's will, and fathers may lose the right to parental allowance and child benefit. Children have the right to both their parents, and here the safety net breaks around the children when the mother alone is given the power to decide whether the child should have relations with his or her father or not. The Swedish Democrats believe that joint custody should be the natural starting point after a child's birth. If the father of the child is known and no malpractice has been revealed, we believe that he and the child's mother should automatically become the child's joint guardian immediately when it is born. Any disputes concerning custody should be investigated afterwards, but it is important to put children first and that we have legislation that is adapted to what is best for children. Madam President, I would like A child can change most things in a relationship. There is a big difference between being two and then suddenly becoming three. Even though you know that the baby years are tough and that it usually gets easier in the future, the relationship does not always last. Approximately 25 000 families with children are separated each year. Separation can be an upsetting and difficult time for a family, not least for the children. Research also shows that conflicts and poor communication between parents increase the risk of negative emotional and social development in children. If the case goes so far as to end up in court, it can be a long and lengthy process that is often about defiling the other party as much as possible. Such a process should, of course, be avoided as far as possible. It is therefore important that consensus solutions can be found at an early stage. At the very beginning of a separation, both parents often have the goal of doing what is best for the child, and the conflicts may not have been so great yet. The Swedish Democrats want to introduce a model which, as soon as it is clear that the parents have moved apart, convenes interested parties to family mediation with the aim of agreeing on custody, housing and social relations. We also want to look at the possibility of cooperation between different actors in order to achieve the best possible solution. It may be the school that becomes involved as a support for the child, psychological help or help in solving its financial situation if one is suddenly to be a single household. We think it should be mandatory to take part in family mediation in order to have their case heard in court. Of course, it is important that parents receive support and help, but it is always, at all times, the best interests of the children that must prevail.
i-7MrkSyHQJVF3EmZWxgiDYy	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only agree to reservation no. 1. I wish there was a magic wand so that we could resolve this situation here and now. Even today, Mr Per Bolund, apparently absent, replied to the question of whether he intended to act against the devastating consequences of the housing crisis for young people in particular. The minister who sits with the ministerial responsibility and Sweden's primarily responsible housing politicians thus handles with a heel kick and with a reference to magic wands the big social problem he himself is set to handle. Madam President, I would like Nonchalant reference to wands does not help young people whose opportunities are severely affected by the housing crisis in general and the government's latest amortisation requirements in particular. Nor does it help all the elderly who feel that they cannot sell theirs for large homes, usually villas, and move to a smaller and more accessible dwelling. Nor does it help those who, in the midst of life, have changed living conditions, such as those who are divorced or alone and need housing quickly. Sweden's housing crisis is hitting almost everything and everyone. On top of that, housing is now collapsing. This is the last housing shortage Sweden needs. I regret that, in the area of housing policy, the fairly uninvolved and inactive Minister of Housing Per Bolund, unlike, for example, the Magdalena Andersson, later here today, and Tomas Eneroth, last week, do not take part in either the parliamentary management of housing policy or in the general discussion on housing policy. The Minister does not do this unless he is more or less forced to participate by the media or by us housing politicians. It would have been one thing if the Minister of Housing had been busy delivering housing policy proposals to the Riksdag, but they glow with their absence. Over the last few days, we have heard proposals on black trade and less opportunities for landlords to manage their own portfolio. But in addition to that, the only proposal the government has made is a proposal that building permits should be freed from patios. With all due respect, Madam President, we are all free of building permits. But don't tell me that it will have some major impact on the housing crisis! The building exemption for patios was by the way the only thing in the 73-point program between S, MP, C and L that could be implemented without investigation. Otherwise, everything should be buried in investigations and done as late as possible in the parliamentary term, which means that hardly anything will be fully implemented. That is not good enough, Madam President. It's just not okay. Since both the government's tools and the parliament's task is to conduct politics and not to refer to the wands, the obvious call to the Minister for Housing and the Government is as follows: Why not go directly to pursue a policy that delivers more vacant housing? If the government is so clearly inconvenient in housing policy and certainly does not want to take on board Moderates' housing policy entrances, they can read the Swedish report presented by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) a month ago, which states that radical reforms of the housing market, in particular of the leasing system, taxes and building rules, are necessary to combat inequality. Madam President, I would like I will quickly and roughly sum up the moderate entrances to housing policy. We have four main entrances. Firstly, there are radical simplifications across the board. There may sometimes be an overconfidence in simplifications in Sweden, but what we mean by radical simplifications is that one third of the total planning and construction process may be cut. Then we must see: what simplifications will then be required? You have to start by establishing that very ambition. I can say here and now that there is not a single simplification that anyone might propose in the Swedish Parliament that we Moderates will not be in favour of. Again, I say that it is a question of radical simplification across the board. This applies to everything from noise pollution to beach protection, appeal possibilities and the planning and construction process. Secondly, it is about the possibility of owning one's dwelling. The property is the foundation of the housing market. That must also be the basis of housing policy. The Moderates are a party that believes in social mobility. Given that the home is the only wealth for 90 per cent of Swedes, it is obvious to us that we need to develop the possibilities for those with low incomes in particular to buy and own their housing. We believe in social mobility. An investment in the owned housing will also in itself be an investment in housing production. Thirdly, we are talking about rentals and rents. We want broad cross-block discussions where we can hopefully come up with proposals on a less regulated leasing system throughout the stock. We can also envisage other discussions to promote rented housing, but not inefficient investment aid that takes time and money from other sources. Fourthly, Madam President, it is about taxation, mobility and the exploitation of existing stocks. Of course, any review of housing-related taxes has a major impact on the state budget. That is precisely why, here too, we need broad cross-horizontal housing policy consultations that stimulate mobility and enable us to make much better use of the existing stock, our main resource, than we can today. Madam President, I would like Let me talk about cross-block agreements. The whole industry and every housing organisation calls for cross-block housing policy talks where all of us political parties sit together, drop the prestige and the sacred cows and are prepared to give and take to solve Sweden's housing crisis. We Moderates are prepared to do so. We owe it to Sweden and its inhabitants. It is also you who owe it to Sweden and its inhabitants – a fact that you are the ones who have promised this and who now form the government or government basis. The Green Party and the Social Democrats, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, have promised this both before and after the elections. Now there is a lot of double news, Madam President. It depends on which representative of MP, S, C or L you ask. I would therefore like to end by once again asking the representatives of the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals here today what is at stake: will they keep their promises and invite to cross-block housing discussions?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-447	Madam President, I would like I followed today the presentation of the government budget. I hoped that there would be some proposals, concrete measures, points of discussion or other reforms regarding the problems we see in the housing market in Sweden. It is a problem that not only extends to the fact that it is built far too little and too expensive. It is also about the fact that we have a number of unsafe areas in Sweden, that we have a lock-in effect and that many do not even have the opportunity to get their first home or to study in the place where they would like to study and receive the education they would need. Instead, housing subsidies are again introduced, which may not have been so foreign. They did not talk in the presentation about the market rents that they investigate and will propose. However, it is also these two proposals that are being highlighted in order to solve a variety of problems in the area of housing policy. We have seen a few proposals that have come in these days. These are proposals that are very important in many areas, but we still see a great lack of housing policy proposals from the government. It is a government that has been in the last legislature and parts of this term of office and should by now be able to deliver proposals. At least that is the assessment I make when I look at how long it has actually been possible to put forward housing policy proposals. I think it really does the same which representative I ask about how to solve the housing shortage we see in Sweden. I put the question to the Prime Minister during the previous Question Time and received the traditional answer that housing subsidies are largely the big solution to the question. It again mentions the 20 000 homes created by that system over a three-year period. When you look at Boverket's report on how many homes need to be built – 93 000 homes per year – everyone understands how small that proportion is. Now we see that the number of homes started is falling sharply. According to forecasts, we will probably continue to see a reduction in construction. So while we are in some sort of boom, things are going in the wrong direction. That is the result we see. Everyone understands where this problem ends up when we go into a recession or deteriorating conditions. The focus of the Swedish Democrats is on the costs of building housing. The demand for housing primarily concerns the possibilities for those who do not have a dwelling, or those who would like to have a larger dwelling or another dwelling, to acquire that dwelling. That's where the economy comes in first. So before we can get a larger housing structure, we need to make sure that the conditions are in place for people who need housing to be able to take these homes. Then we need to look at how we press the prices of construction, which ultimately also creates less expensive housing whether you choose to buy or rent. Unfortunately, I do not see very many government proposals in this area where the focus should be. We would need to look more at standardisation and common building rules in the Nordic countries. We must ensure that competition is increased so that it is not just three construction companies that are involved in the procurement process. More people should have the opportunity to participate. Regional housing planning should be expanded so that municipalities can receive the support they need to increase construction. The construction credit needs to be reviewed in order for smaller construction companies to be able to participate more in these procurements. These are some of the proposals that the Swedish Democrats have put forward and that we think the government should also look at. Instead, we see that things are going the wrong way. The costs of housing construction are increasing, which is very serious in the current situation. We also need to develop a housing and infrastructure preparation. We know that the number of buildings built has a strong link to the degree of infrastructure development. These two issues, together with a number of other issues, need to go hand in hand in order for us to achieve increased construction. There should be good infrastructure and opportunities for those who take a home to travel collectively. That makes the homes that are built attractive. We need to review start-up loans and deductible savings so that we have an opportunity to build up housing savings and good start-up capital from an early stage up to 30-35 years. It is important to combine the possibility of rental and own-owned housing in order to bring up housing construction and thus the opportunity for everyone to get a dwelling. Above all, it is extremely important to give priority to housing policy. As far as these questions are concerned, the government must re-examine. We cannot see a high population increase while seeing a decrease in housing construction. There are also other important issues in the report we are debating today, and this concerns the living environment. It is important not only to think about the construction but also about the environment in which we live around the homes. Aesthetics is extremely important both for creating pleasantness and for reducing conflicts, exclusion and a distastefulness in the residential area. Increased security, especially in the particularly vulnerable areas, is an extremely important issue if society is not to continue to divide, crime increases, people feel insecure and parallel societies are to be created. Here we need to go in and create a housing planning that enables, for example, the police to be active without a high risk to those who act in the police profession and other professions operating in these areas. It is an extremely important issue that must not be forgotten when we discuss the reduction in housing construction and the housing crisis that we are seeing in Sweden today. We also see an increased overcrowding. When we see the increasing overcrowding and the consequences it entails for those living in crowded housing in Sweden today, if you want to say something a little radical, you can start to question where the limit is for a welfare country. To conclude, I would like to receive the extended hand from the Moderates to initiate housing policy talks together with the other parties in the Riksdag.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-464	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a social housing policy. There is a need to take a national approach which means that resources are more clearly directed towards weak housing markets and, not least, economically weak households. Both the UN Charter and the Swedish Constitution state that access to housing is a fundamental right. It is enough, Madam President, to go out on the streets a few blocks away to say that this right is not a reality for everyone. The City of Gothenburg, alone, paid SEK 1 billion for social housing in 2017. Together, municipalities' social services are the country's largest landlord and provide approximately 24,000 apartments a year to households who cannot afford to ask for a dwelling and therefore have no roof over their heads. Many of these are referred to usury and illegal trafficking in rental contracts, which we are now helping to ban both for tenants and for renters. Behind the figure 24 000 we find women who need somewhere to move with their children after they have stayed at the women's shelter after being beaten by a man. We find people with disabilities who make it difficult for them to enter the labour market and get permanent housing. We find people with substance abuse problems and gambling debts. But the most common thing is that you do not have sufficient income and have not been in the housing queue long enough. According to Boverket 2017, every fifth of the public utility housing companies applies an income requirement of three times the annual rent. Since the so-called ‘all-companies' were introduced in 2011, there are no longer any housing available that is subsidised by the municipal treasury. That's how it's supposed to be. I have no comments on that. There shall be a level playing field between the private and public sectors on the housing market. Investment aid that has so far been available has not been directed towards low-income households. These households have not been the target group. Nor has the aid been directed towards creating housing in places where it would not otherwise have been built. This is why, now that the aid will remain, we believe that it should be more efficient, concentrated and targeted at housing throughout the country. To this day, 240 of the country's 290 municipalities still have some form of urban deprivation. Although Boverket has pointed to a building need of 80,000 homes a year, construction was as low as 53,000 apartments in 2018. This is a decrease from the previous year by 16 per cent! Never have we even been close to reaching the construction goals. Instead, the construction declines after it started to increase during the alliance years. Mobility is low, and for young people who need to enter the housing market, it is not primarily expensive newly produced rental apartments that apply without getting a first-hand contract in an older apartment perhaps a bit outside the center with commuting distance to school and work. But what is even more difficult today, as Mats Green also mentioned, is to enter the owned housing market. For too long the debate has been focused on rental rights, and we have forgotten that most people, if given the opportunity, actually want to own their home – and preferably live in a small house. Whatever the type of construction, money must be generated, and this money must be borrowed against some form of cash and the double amortisation requirement – introduced with Per Bolund's good memory. When virtually all housing funding is transferred to private individuals, and the banks, with the support of Finansinspektionen, are making increasing demands on those who want to borrow, new forms of savings and others who are prepared to pay for the loans taken by private individuals are needed. And before that, the whole package of mortgages and amortisation requirements needs to be reviewed and phased out. Madam President, I would like It is very gratifying that the Christian Democrats, together with the Center Party, are raising the issue of financing and the need for credit guarantees aimed at the construction and rehabilitation of rural housing. It is also interesting that Boverket is now presenting a proposal for top government loans to finance construction in rural areas. Together with simpler building permits rules and heavily reformed beach protection, it will make a difference for many small municipalities. Municipalities that have previously had a weak population development, but see that an interest from immigrants exists, can see themselves as attractive alternatives to the big city. It is in these municipalities that we find many of the municipality-owned housing companies who would like to build apartments but cannot because the auditors deny them to write off for longer than they could if the newly built apartment building had been located in a place where the market value is higher than the construction cost. Unfortunately, however, many municipalities are not in that situation. Our special opinion in the report points out that the accounting rules will be reviewed as part of the January agreement to get construction going outside large cities and municipalities' central centres. 中 The rent levels of many utility housing companies need to be increased. – Otherwise, we will break the commons. Who says that? Well, Municipal Commissioner Niklas Nordström, Social Democrat in Luleå, in a publication published by Sabo some time ago about the need for a new social housing policy. I agree with him. With greater variations in rental levels, the housing shortage will disappear over time and the availability of cheap rental apartments will also increase. That is the aim of the housing policy of the Center Party. With free leasing in all new production and the freedom for property owners to choose a different negotiating model from the collective, we will over time see more rental rights being built in Sweden. Another vision The Center Party has is to lay the foundations for a new self-home movement, where a social housing policy can be based on more people having the opportunity to nest and own their homes. With a simple, predictable management of building permits in the municipalities of standardised and prefabricated house types from all our skilled wooden house companies, we want to help people realize the dream of their own house as a start to their housing career. You should be able to start your housing career with your own work effort, a targeted housing saving to the top loan and an income from work that allows you to pay off the loan you have taken without excessive demands for amortization rates. Madam President, I would like It is easy to use the UN Charter on the right to housing as an argument for building new, high-standard housing with tax revenues in attractive locations for normal income earners who have been in the housing queue long enough. That is not how the UN Charter should be interpreted. We in the Center Party see this as a sign that reforms are needed that increase mobility and create long-term sustainable conditions for building entrepreneurs to build more and at lower costs. The January agreement, Madam President, is a good start, but it is not enough. The Center Party's reservation 3 on a new modern Swedish model of social housing policy I do not support, to speed up voting, but I call for approval of the joint reserve 7 of the Center Party and the KD for a new and expanded credit guarantee system that facilitates construction in rural areas where payment capacity exists but where traditional bank financing is difficult to obtain. To those of you who are listening to this debate on housing policy and who think that we are not telling you about renting, about simpler and faster planning processes, let me say the following. When it comes to issues of regulatory simplification, faster planning processes, freer leasing and better mobility, there is reason to return to other debates later on when the Center Party will be involved in delivering alliance policies as a result of the January agreement and the investigations that will be set up in the spring with the aim of being implemented well in advance of the end of the mandate.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-485	Madam President, I would like I would like to quote from this year's motion by the Center Party on housing policy, raised by Ola Johansson, which we are now discussing, among other things: That was the wrong way to go. The subsidies for housing construction were once phased out as they were unable to increase new construction but instead contributed to higher costs. As the pace of construction has once again turned downwards, we can see that this time too, subsidies have not had the intended effect. It is important to have respect for the fact that construction and housing companies need long-term rules of play and that, with the reintroduction of subsidies, they have adapted to the current conditions. Nevertheless, the Center Party intends that subsidies do not contribute to the proper functioning of the market and should therefore be phased out. ..................................................... This is not an attitude that goes back ten years, Madam President, but this is this year's motion that we are debating. Here is Ola Johansson from the Center Party arguing for the very building subsidies you want to phase out the fastest of all parties in the Swedish parliament. I would like to hear a few words about this. The promises made by the Center Party before the elections, and even after the elections, to have broad cross-block housing policy deliberations, will we have such?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-488	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Mats Green reads the whole wording about the construction subsidies, and he also tells the House that the Center Party is prepared to phase out the subsidies. That is true, unlike the policy implemented with the Moderates and the KD budget, which we admittedly released, but is the one that applies. This means that the authorisation for Boverket to process already received applications for building subsidies on the existing regulatory framework cannot be dealt with. I find this very problematic. There are many housing companies that have called me, certainly also Mats Green, and even small municipalities, who would otherwise not be able to implement their construction projects because the calculations are based on the regulatory framework that shapes the subsidies. We have taken that on board and understood. Our budget option, which did not win Parliament's voice, does not include the withdrawal of the authorisation. On the other hand, there is a substantial reduction in the amount that would be used for building subsidies. This means that with continued management of the building subsidies that exist, which I hope the government is now engaged in, we will have a system of building subsidies that works in the way I describe. It is aimed at housing construction that would otherwise not have happened, unlike the general subsidies we currently have aimed at weak consumers and weak housing markets that exist and exist throughout the country. That is the direction we want. I would like to come back in the next change of line with answers to the other questions.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-493	Madam President, I would like Now I am a little puzzled, because Ola Johansson is now criticising us because he thinks that we phased out the construction subsidies too quickly. The problem was that the Center Party wanted to dismantle them fastest of all. You basically brought in all the money from day one and also criticised us for going too far. If it were also the case that you wanted to phase out the construction subsidies for a long time, yes, I have just taken note of the spring amendment proposal put forward by the government, which cuts an additional 750 million from our de-escalation. Then some money is added – frankly needle money, Madam President – the last year of the planning period, which of course will not contribute to anything, and says that the government will come back on this. If there was too much escalation, why do the Center Party and the Social Democrats continue to step off even more and then begin to escalate in the last part of the planning period? I can't really get it together. Then again, I wonder what will happen to the promised cross-block discussions on housing policy. That is what you have promised the voters and what we have promised the voters, both before and after the elections, and we will be there to take a holistic approach to Sweden's housing policy challenge once and for all. However, I am told differently or not again, depending on which of the representatives of the four parties I am talking to. If I get a message from the Social Democrats, I get an opposite message from the Green Party. If I ask the Center Party, I get a reply, and if I ask the Liberals, I get a completely different message. What is the case with cross-block housing policy deliberations?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-496	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by pointing out that it is up to the government to invite people to talk about housing policy. And the fact that we are talking about block-crossing about the major structural problems that exist for both housing construction and mobility in the housing market is not something that the Center Party opposes. Above all, this is about the tax system and the major tax reform that needs to be implemented to both create more jobs and improve conditions for businesses. This means a green transition, but also an improvement in the functioning of the housing market, which we have talked about. The second thing I want to say is that the best thing must not be the enemy of the good. In his speech, Mats Green spoke in broad terms about the need to shorten and simplify the regulatory processes by 30% – without specifying what he means. At the same time, he criticises us for wanting to set up investigations. There is, of course, a preparation requirement for everything that is presented to the Swedish Parliament. And it is clear that we need to investigate, especially if we are talking about regulatory simplifications in the sense of 30%. There's Mats Green himself talking about an investigation. With regard to the reform of the rental market, which is not really today's subject but which we choose to discuss anyway, we are pleased to have obtained an agreement with the government parties that means that free renting should apply in all new production and that it is the property owner's right to decide whether the free renting should apply or whether you want to enter into today's negotiating model. This is something that I am sure the Moderates have no objection to. We can start large, broad housing policy talks on the rent issue, but the important thing for the Center Party is to achieve results. That's why we're in politics. It is to achieve results that mean that people can get a place to live.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-501	Madam President, I would like It is an important issue that is being discussed here today. We all agree that there is a housing shortage around Sweden. It is easy to agree, but it is important to also discuss what the housing shortage is due to and what we should do to ensure that it disappears. We talk about this all the time, quite loudly, but few show any greater interest in the history of housing policy. There's a lot to get there. Kent Werne recently wrote an article on this particular story. I'll quote you a few things. 中 100 years ago it was the property owner who decided the rent. The result? That the Swedish rents were highest in Europe, and that poor people were sorted out. Instead, they were housed in empty factories, basements and wind lofts. Some were forced to camp or sleep under the open sky. A common solution was to move in with others. At the end of World War I, about one fifth of Stockholm's population was native to a family that had only one room and kitchen. People shared a bed and slept in shifts. ..................................................... It was long housing queues. This is the history of Swedish housing policy. We pretend it never happened, but there is much we can learn from this. Werne also writes that the only winner of the free market was the private property owners. They had a monopoly. They decided. Ordinary tenants lacked the ability to influence. This led to the mobilization of the population. There was a tenant movement that wanted to change living conditions in Sweden. As a result, today we have the Tenants' Association. As a result, we now have the common good of local government. I would like to strike a blow for the common good, Madam President. The municipal housing companies, the commons, have long held a special position on the Swedish housing market. Public utility is shared by citizens and has the task of providing sustainable and affordable housing for all. Over time, public services have taken on a major social responsibility as housing builders, managers and developers of residential areas. The common good is what basically represents housing as a social right. A strong public interest is crucial for social housing policy and for managing housing supply in municipalities. Madam President, I would like Over the past 20 years, the share of the common good in the total dwelling stock has been sharply reduced, from 38 to 29 per cent. This has been done in two ways: on the one hand, through sales to private property owners and, on the other hand, through conversion to a right-of-occupancy apartment. So there has been and continues to be a systematic erosion of the commons, which has systematically made it more difficult and difficult for ordinary people and low-income people to take advantage of the right to housing. The logic of capitalism does what it does best: maximises profit, usually at the expense of the vulnerable. But the market can't arrange for everyone to have a place to live. The market cannot allow more housing to be built. The logic of the market will always shut out those who cannot afford to demand. Madam President, I would like We have concluded a social contract, an agreement that society has an overall responsibility for everyone to have a place to live. The idea of good housing for everyone, you know – if you remember it! Through sales and restructuring, the proportion of public-service apartments with reasonable rent has fallen sharply. The newly produced public-service apartments usually have a significantly higher rent and cannot therefore be demanded by low-income recipients. Sales thus contribute to reducing the proportion of public-interest rentals that people can afford to demand. Madam President, I would like We must remember the basic idea behind the creation of the commons. The law states that the commons should be a home for everyone and that one should promote a comprehensive household composition. However, this change was made in 2011, when commercial requirements were introduced. Under the bourgeois government, the conditions of the common good were changed, inter alia by the introduction of a requirement for the municipal housing companies to operate in accordance with commercial principles – while the companies have the task of promoting housing supply – by the new law on municipal housing companies, which entered into force in 2011. Madam President, I would like The requirement that the companies operate in accordance with commercial principles has had serious consequences for the housing of the public utility. Market demand for returns means that plans for new production are not implemented. The return requirements also mean that housing companies cannot carry out the necessary renovations of disadvantaged million-programmed properties without significantly increasing rents. I believe that the public housing companies should be run on the basis of social benefits and social responsibility objectives, not on the basis of market principles and return requirements. I therefore believe that the requirement that companies operate in accordance with commercial principles should be removed from the law. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is serious about the sale of public-interest rentals. A reduced public benefit makes it difficult to pursue a social housing policy and reduces the ability of municipalities to cope with housing supply, as has been shown with all the necessary clarity in those municipalities that have sold out all or a large part of their public housing stock. Madam President, I would like In the past, the Government has taken various measures to prevent the sale and conversion of public goods. I asked the responsible minister if he was going to make any changes and got the answer that there is no way to do anything because we have municipal self-government in Sweden. This is not true, however, because in 1999, the so-called ‘stop' law was introduced, which allowed the State to reduce the general state contribution to municipalities that sold off their public housing stock. As a result of the standstill law, the sale of the apartments of municipal housing companies decreased significantly, from around 24 000 apartments in 2000 to around 3 000 apartments in 2003. The stop law expired in 2002, when sales were regulated in all the companies. Madam President, I would like I want to protect the role and future of the common good. In my opinion, a strong public good is crucial for a social housing policy and for managing housing supply. In order to safeguard and develop the position of the public good, I propose a couple of measures: In order to contribute to good and cheap construction of rental apartments, there must be at least one municipal housing company in each municipality. In order to ensure that there is a sufficient proportion of public housing at both regional and national level, I propose introducing a procedure requiring permission from the County Administrative Board for the sale of dwellings owned by municipal housing companies. Madam President, I would like I conclude by saying that the housing shortage does not affect everyone equally. It mainly affects young people, new arrivals, unemployed, single mothers and low income earners – just like a hundred years ago, and no more than market rents will give them their own home.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-521	Mr President, I would like to The parliamentary situation after the 2018 elections has meant that old positions have been reconsidered and new collaborations have come into being. This is necessary because policy is facing major challenges. Care queues need to be shortened. Students need to learn more in school. Foreign born need to get to work. The climate objectives must be achieved and the violence of honour combated. It is the basis of the January agreement and of the Spring Economic Bill and the Spring Change Budget that the government is presenting in cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals. The starting point for the government's presentation of the reform proposals is the budget decided by Parliament last autumn in accordance with a joint reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Since a new government was not in place at the time of the surrender of the autumn budget, it was the responsibility of the transitional government to present a budget. Broadly coordinated, the principles of the budget were drawn up, on the basis that a new government could make its mark on fiscal policy. Let me say that this was not the case. In the sketchy budget voted by the Moderates and Christian Democrats with the support of the Swedish Democrats instead four months ago, the tax was reduced by 20 billion, a reform that is impossible to reverse during the current financial year. Net of the three parties weakened the Swedish state finances by SEK 17 billion for 2019, before a new government was in place. It is not taking responsibility for Sweden. Nor is it a responsible way of dealing with social problems in the long term. Sweden is not meant to be governed by a government budget on a handful of pages. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's economic development is to a large extent affected by our environment. There is still considerable political uncertainty about the forms of UK withdrawal from the EU. The European Council will meet in Brussels later today, and the consequences may be great for both the United Kingdom and other European countries. The Swedish state has prepared for the UK possibly leaving the EU without an agreement, but despite this, a non-contracted withdrawal can be costly for the Swedish economy. It can also increase the hassle, not least for Swedish small businesses that need to adapt to new customs and tax regulations for their trade with the UK. Also in other parts of the world a lot is happening. Continued trade policy tensions, particularly between the US and China, have contributed to a slowdown in world trade and to the expected slowdown in economic growth. There is great uncertainty about how the situation can develop in the future. But despite the uncertain situation, the Swedish economy is strong. After a few years of high resource utilisation, we are moving towards a slowdown in growth, but at the same time employment has been revised up. We have order in public finances. Sweden has the lowest public debt since 1977 and the highest employment rate in over 25 years. Unemployment has fallen, employment has increased, and this has brought the lowest proportion of people supported by compensation and insurance systems since 1981. But, Mr President, record employment rates and falling unemployment should not obscure the challenges we face in the labour market. More reforms are needed to enable employers to fill more than 100 000 job vacancies where there are often no candidates with the right skills at present. Until 2026, 156 000 people need to be employed only in welfare. At the same time, six out of ten public sector employers indicate that they already find it difficult to recruit the skills they need. In the private sector, nearly four out of ten employers face the same challenge. The situation in the construction, manufacturing, IT and transport sectors is most acute. In order to reduce labour shortages, we need to continue to expand the knowledge boost and ensure that job seekers get to work. It will be an important task for the government in the future. We also see that the employment rate is lower among those who lack upper secondary education and among women born abroad. There is great potential here. Everything else equal – if foreign-born women worked to the same extent as women born in Sweden, bnp could increase by 1.5 per cent, unemployment would be 1 percentage point lower and the Treasury would receive a supplement of 37 billion SEK. It is therefore obvious that more women born abroad should take their place in our offices and workshops, in coffee rooms and in welfare. We need that workforce. But it's all about so much more. It is only in this way that these women can make the journey that many Swedish-born women made in the 50s, 60s and 70s – the journey to their own livelihood that gives freedom to make their own, independent decisions. Our prosperity will be secured with high employment, both among women and among men, strong driving forces for work and better conditions for innovation, exports and job creation. The Swedish economy is open to the outside world, and Sweden is a major export nation. Swedish foreign trade contributes to 1.4 million Swedish jobs. Therefore, the government wants to continue to develop the current export strategy and help create even better conditions for strengthening the internationalisation of Swedish companies. That is why we are proposing more funds for export and investment promotion measures. The opportunity to start and run businesses and to succeed as entrepreneurs will be better, not least in rural areas, with climate-smart energy, production of healthy and safe food and values that contribute to jobs and welfare. Rural development is crucial for the whole of Sweden. There we ensure that the policy is shared by the whole country, with broadband expansion, training efforts, climate investment and much more. The summer of 2018 was an exceptionally warm and dry summer, resulting in both fires and droughts. In order to provide better conditions for the farmers affected, the government proposes to strengthen existing support, and we will also provide funds to compensate municipalities for the costs associated with forest fires and to strengthen their capacity to prevent climate-related accidents. Mr President, I would like to Global climate change is the destiny of our time. The Parliament has decided that by 2045 we should not have any net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere. To achieve this goal, climate change must take place in such a way that everyone has the opportunity to be part of the solution. The Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget reservation chose to cut nearly a fifth of the environmental and climate budget. Now we make sure to restore some of those bets. We will strengthen the climate life, the industrial life will be expanded, the sea will become cleaner, more individuals and companies will be able to install solar cells and valuable nature will be protected. Economic policy should contribute to achieving high-level Swedish environmental objectives. Sweden should take the lead in climate and environmental issues. It's our generation's responsibility to our children and grandchildren. Mr President, I would like to We live longer and longer in Sweden, and we have more and more children. It is a fantastic success for our country. But it also obliges. During the last term of office, the government strengthened health care, school and care with historic SEK 35 billion. But if welfare is to be secured for the future, more will be needed. This is one of the biggest tasks of the mandate. We need to train and hire nannys, teachers and nurses. Schools need to be built and equipped to make room for students who dare to dream big dreams, whether you're a guy or a girl and no matter what parents you happen to have – schools where all students are given equal opportunities to gain the knowledge required in tomorrow's labour market, where teachers focus on students and their knowledge development and where all students are given studyo and support by the teacher when they need it. The government's and the partner parties' long-term investment in teaching assistants means that we take a step in that direction. This is how we strengthen the foundation of the Swedish knowledge nation, which is a basis for our prosperity. Mr President, I would like to Every fourth woman has been subjected to violence by a loved one at some point in her life. Every woman who is beaten, threatened or humiliated is a woman too much. Every child who lives in fear of domestic violence is a child too much. It is for these women and children that we must act. Many efforts have been made by previous governments, but unfortunately more needs to be done. I know that there is a great deal of support in this House when we now direct resources towards men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression and to girls' and women's shelters. Violence must be prevented, prevented and punished!
i-3955fc806ba8c046-544	Mr President, I would like to With this budget, we are taking a first step towards the implementation of the January agreement. Step by step, the government, together with the partner parties, will tackle social problems. With the Center Party and the Liberals, the government wants to create the conditions for a society where cohesion and security go hand in hand with people's freedom and opportunities. Jobs will increase, school knowledge will increase, care queues will be shortened and the climate challenge will be met. So we want to take Sweden forward!
i-3955fc806ba8c046-545	Mr President, I would like to This is Magdalena Andersson's fifth year as Minister of Finance. She has been at a time when we have had a strong global boom and also a domestic one. Nevertheless, the government has not been able to make the necessary structural reforms to face an employment crisis when the economic cycle is turning downwards. But above all, Mr President, the government has failed with the most important thing: to create a safer Sweden. During these years, exposure and sexual crimes have tripled and the shootings of death have increased avalanche. Children now dare not go home from school or Fritis because they are afraid of being robbed. The list can be made long. It is a new Sweden, and it is not safer. Furthermore, Mr President, during this period the police have become fewer. And now, then, the government's and the cooperation parties' conclusion is that the police's resources need to be reduced. I can't believe how you can draw that conclusion. How can you cut a quarter of a billion in the police budget and at the same time walk out of here and look the citizens in the eye?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-548	Mr President, I would like to Strengthening the police is one of the government's important priorities. At the end of the last parliamentary term, we made sure to spend a lot of money on the police. We made a historic effort in 2018, and we have doubled the admissions to police training. It is quite correct that the number of police officers has fallen slightly, and that is because during the alliance years they cut in police training so that there were not enough newly trained police officers out. Now we are making sure to increase, even double, the number of trained police officers, who will also be able to be hired. The goal is for us to have 10,000 more police employees. That is why it is good that we were able to make major increases in the police force last year and that the Moderates and Christian Democrats in their budget reservation added great efforts to the police for this year and the coming years. These are initiatives that we fully support. We also want to streamline police operations. Since there is a shortage of police officers, we want police officers to hunt for criminals, not transport prisoners, as has been done before. Therefore, we have transferred the task of transporting the captured criminals to the Prison Service so that police officers do not have to engage in it. When we move that task from the police to the Correctional Service, we also make sure to transfer money for this. That's what you usually do when you move businesses between authorities. In addition, we have also made sure to strengthen the Prison Service, which has financial problems, with an additional 100 million so that there will be enough detention places now that the police seem to have gained their effectiveness and manage to catch more criminals. That this will continue to be a priority for the government is clear and important and, as far as I know, there is consensus here in Parliament. This is important for the police to know – that they have the support of the parliament.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-554	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly what you're not doing, Magdalena Andersson. You do not support the great effort we made in December because you are now reducing the police budget. That's the whole point. I think a lot of people with me are tired of the Minister of Finance never taking responsibility for the fact that she's actually in a government, and that's her fifth year. There is no blame on the Alliance; it was a long time ago. Blameing our budget is not possible because we strengthened the police. Of course, she cannot blame the economy because it has been strong either. Take responsibility! Sweden is no safer now than five years ago, on the contrary. And you're cutting the police. My very simple question, to which I think many people want answers, is: does the police receive more or less resources in this spring change budget? Are you cutting or adding money, Minister of Finance?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-557	Mr President, I would like to I take responsibility every day of the week for the increased efforts we have made in police training and for the doubled admissions to the training. Elisabeth Svantesson can take responsibility for the cuts made in police training during the time Elisabeth Svantesson sat in the government. It is important to take responsibility for our policies. What we are doing in this budget is moving tasks from one authority to another. Then you also move money from one authority to the other. Otherwise, the Correctional Service would have big problems. I heard Elisabeth Svantesson on TV saying that she thinks the Correctional Service should have more money. But, Elisabeth Svantesson, it's your budget that's been through. The prison services have the money that you have proposed to the Riksdag for them to have. Take responsibility for that, Elisabeth Svantesson!
i-3955fc806ba8c046-560	Mr President, I would like to At the beginning of May last year, the European Commission presented its new proposal for a so-called long-term budget. It proposes that the Swedish EU contribution should increase by approximately 35%, which is equivalent to over SEK 15 billion per year. I was sceptical, and so was the Minister for Finance, for natural reasons. So far, we agree. This money would have been much more useful if it went to the Swedish welfare instead of being sent to Brussels. So that is not the question. My question is: is the government prepared to use the veto, after all, because this decision must be unanimous, in order to stop the Commission's draft budget? That is a question that can be answered by yes or no. It is one thing to speak in sweeping and critical terms to the home public about bad proposals at European level – this particular proposal was only the Liberals who were cheering – but quite another to act sharply in sharp negotiations on the ground in Brussels. I think that the government is leaving a great deal to be desired.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-563	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Oscar Sjöstedt knows how the negotiations are going in Brussels before closed doors. I have pursued an extremely clear line on the part of the Swedish Government and have received good support from the EU Board for this line. Sweden is pursuing a very restrictive line with regard to the EU budget, and we are doing this together with other countries that also see the fact that Brussels has to correct its mouth after its lunch, just as we do in Sweden when we have a national budget. If you get less income, you can have less expenditure. When the UK leaves the EU, of course, the EU budget must correct the mouth after the lunch. That is why we are pushing the line that the budget should remain at 1% of GDP. This is a line I have taken in many of the talks I have had with my colleagues in the European Union. I have also had a number of meetings with the European Commissioner responsible for the budget to put forward the Swedish positions. As late as last Friday last week, the Finance Ministers and the Budget Commissioner had a meeting in Bucharest, where I again put forward the Swedish positions. Even in this situation, when we are in the opening part of the negotiations, starting to wave the veto card, I know that I have never been a successful strategy for any country, but it risks overturning rather than helping the whole process. This is probably a demand coming from a party that does not really want us to be in the European Union.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-567	Mr President, I would like to I just don't think it should be as expensive as it is. That's just what it's all about. The total net flow since the start of Swedish EU membership, i.e. from 1995 until last year, amounts to SEK 386.4 billion. So it is not the total fee, which is considerably higher, but the net flow, that is, the difference between what we pay and what we get back. There's a lot of criticism there. We could have built high-speed tracks for that coin, probably in about the same time. I note that we did not receive an answer. It is quite right that if it had been us who were present at the negotiations, we would have been clear that the proposal could be thrown away now because it will not go through when we should veto it. The government is not prepared to do this. Then we have a message – thank you!
i-3955fc806ba8c046-570	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Government has made it clear that the proposal will not see the light of day or become a reality. Oscar Sjöstedt says that it is about him not thinking it should be so expensive. There we are in complete agreement. Nor do I think that we should get a much higher fee than we have today, at the levels that have been discussed from Brussels. However, to overturn the whole negotiation by opening it by waving the veto card has never, I know, been a success in the European Union. Such a requirement can reasonably only come from a party that wants to overturn the whole of EU cooperation.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-572	Mr President, I would like to The budget does not mention in one word that economic inequality should be reduced. This may be self - evident when one looks at the distribution of income: It is they who are best placed to benefit. It should be the poor pensioner with worn-out body who does not get the pension to be enough even for the most necessary, or the single mother who is forced to turn and turn every penny but whose money is still enough, or why not the assistant nurse who is forced to work shared tours and every other weekend and who needs both higher pay and more colleagues. It is not those who have the greatest needs that are prioritised, but it is the richest men: it is the CEO on the floor of Östermalm, and it is the millionaires in the luxury villas in Danderyd. It is those who already have so much money that they do not know where to make of those who are the priority. They're the ones to be cherished and better off. When the military tax is removed, it will be a gift of just over 6 billion to those who have it absolutely best. The government also chooses to spice this up with a gift deduction for charity. If you pay for charity, you're supposed to have a tax deduction for it too. I wonder: does the Minister of Finance know what consequences it will have for the development of society to pursue policies that increase income inequality rather than reduce it? I also wonder: why does the Minister of Finance want to increase income inequality?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-576	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson has a perfectly correct description of the budget that the Moderates and Christian Democrats got through in the Swedish parliament. There the tax was reduced by SEK 20 billion, and it is a clear distribution profile in the budget reservation presented in the spring bill. It is a policy that increases the gaps. Ulla Andersson is also quite right that in the January agreement we have agreed to abolish the military tax. It was a clear demand from the Liberals and a necessity for them to join in the cooperation. We Social Democrats took the view that there are a lot of policies which go in the opposite direction in the January agreement and which can reduce the gaps, such as strengthening the poor pensioners – the pensioners who have worked a very long working life but still have a low pension. There are also clear statements that one of the starting points of the tax reform is that we want to combat and reduce disparities. We also have investments in the welfare of the budget and also in the January agreement. The budget is now about additional resources for schools, and in the January agreement we are clear that the welfare billions that exist will be able to continue to increase during the term of office. But it is quite correct that we Social Democrats will not be able to implement all our policies, because we did not get our own majority. Then we will have to compromise. Our assessment is that the January agreement and the cooperation we have is much better than the alternative, namely the most conservative government ever that Sweden could have had, namely the Moderates and Christian Democrats with the support of the Swedish Democrats.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-579	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has the least redistributive tax system of the EU's 15 core countries. It has been a conscious policy of reducing progressivity. I believe that the Social Democrats have probably lost faith in the redistribution of the tax system and have therefore chosen to allow for the reduction of the military tax. For it is the Social Democrats who have chosen to support the settlement. Even Anders Borg did not think that the defense tax should be removed, but the Minister of Finance chose to do so. 6 billion are given to those who are in the best position. The welfare money for municipalities is 5 billion. The country's 290 municipalities will share 5 billion, while the 10 percent richest in society will share 6 billion. This says a lot. I would have liked it to be the poor pensioner, the assistant nurse or the single mother and not the millionaires in Danderyd and not the CEO on Strandvägen on Östermalm. That is a wrong priority.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-582	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson and I are in complete agreement. This would not have been the priority of the Social Democrats if we had had our own majority – it is – but in cooperation you need to give and take. This was one of the prerequisites for us to achieve cooperation. The question to Ulla Andersson then becomes: What would have been better? Would it have been better for the military tax to have been abolished by an M-KD government that had ruled with the support of the Swedish Democrats? Because that was the alternative. Now we have a January agreement, which, while containing abolished military tax, also contains 20 billions of welfare. We implement the School Commission's proposal for greater equality in school, we invest heavily in health care, we raise the pension for the most deprived, we start the family week and we invest in women's shelters against honour-related violence. There are very good social democratic policies in the January agreement which I look forward to implementing.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-584	Mr President, I would like to Do you remember Magnus, Brasse and Eva's tango in Five Ants? First it goes forward, then it goes backwards, then it goes around for a little while, then it goes down and then it stops. This is probably a reasonable forecast also for the January party waltz in 73-pace: forward, backward, around a little while, downward and then stop. Steering dance without direction, hefty right turn and strong left at the same time. Who's it really for? It's one of the others. This is what happens when jointly designed proposals to go into close struggle with social problems are instead replaced by the principle of the January parties, to impose their most symbolic demands on each other with political panderings, best functioning in sterile ideological spaces. The journey of politics then suffers from a lack of goal and meaning. Apparently, it is the agreement itself that should be worth the effort. But without a political direction, the force for reform will not be there. I'm afraid it'll be forward, backwards, around a little while, and then it'll stop. The Social Democratic Government is now going to implement the same ideas that the Social Democrats went to elections to stop and that they have spent decades fighting. Some say that the Social Democrats are an idea party with two ideas, to take power and to retain power. If you look at how it's been historically, that's not true. But now the question has to be asked: what do the Social Democrats want? The focus on welfare is clearly completely gone. We have seen this today when they choose to cut back on care for the elderly. They will use the force of reform for other purposes. The question then arises which reform Magdalena Andersson is most excited to implement. Is it the relaxation of labour law, the closure of the Employment Service, market rents or the removal of the military tax?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-588	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Forssmed has obviously been very excited about cutting down on the Public Employment Service, because they have saved 3.6 billion there to reduce taxes – mostly for those with the highest incomes. That is clearly Jakob Forssmed's priority. I might sense a certain bitterness in Jakob Forssmed's speech. After a turbulent political autumn, after Sweden has been ruled with the napkin sketch that Jakob Forssmed developed together with Elisabeth Svantesson, we now have order again. We have a government, we have stable cooperation in the middle, we now have a spring budget and a spring bill and we have a January agreement that will take Sweden forward. There is now stability here to address the societal problems that we need to address. We need more police officers, the care queues need to be shorter and the children need to learn more in school. With the climate change that we have in front of us, we cannot look at without taking action. This also distinguishes this co-operation constellation from Jakob Forssmeds, who in practice carried out a veritable slaughter on the environment and climate budget. There is now clear stability and a clear direction forward. But if you think that the direction ahead is just another big step with job tax deductions, you may not see any direction. But here is a broad reform agenda that we in the four parties agree to implement together.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-590	Mr President, I would like to A crucial difference between me and Magdalena Andersson I think is not the level of bitterness but that I still stand for the policy that I went to elections on, while Magdalena Andersson will be forced to implement a completely opposite policy in a wide range of areas.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-591	We can talk about the so-called napkin sketch. I just heard a speech by Magdalena Andersson saying that she supports the additional resources that we provide to the police and also the additional resources that we provide to the municipalities. The queue billions that we made available to Sweden at the turn of the year are now to be introduced. That, of course, is very good. But what concerns me is your lack of direction. Where is the force for reform? What are you going to put into this work when you are going to implement reforms that you have forced upon each other in this cooperation? I don't think that's the best thing for Sweden. I think we need a clearer focus. And it is true that I also think that Sweden would have needed another management that could have done this in a better way.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-593	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats and the Moderates, unlike what they said before the elections, were prepared to form a government with the support of the Swedish Democrats – this is about saying one thing before the elections and another thing after the elections. At least I did not hear before the elections that they said they were prepared to form a small, extremely conservative government with the support of the Swedish Democrats. It was a message that we received later in the autumn.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-594	On the other hand, we have cooperation, and in all collaborations we have to give and take. But this is a stable and broad middle cooperation in Swedish politics, and we will now implement a programme to tackle the societal problems that we all see as necessary for the policy to address. This creates stability for Sweden.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-595	Mr President, I would like to Two years ago, 75 per cent of the global economy experienced an upturn. This year, 2019, 70 percent of the global economy will face a downturn or a dampening. It is in this environment that we are debating here today. It was not for nothing that Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund, said a year ago: The sun is shining – fix the roof. In the economic boom, one should save, make the necessary reforms, tackle the major problems and thus prepare the country for more difficult economic times. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Minister of Finance has walked to Parliament with his tenth budget. This time with a budget that she has negotiated with the Liberals and the Center Party. She still hasn't fixed the roof. There is now a saying in the Riksdag about these walks: the Minister of Finance she comes and goes, but the social problems they persist. I'm thinking of the middle-sel couple in northern Western Northern Norway. They recently sat and ate a Sunday dinner when they suddenly heard that someone was trying to break in through the locked front door. They go up to the peephole, and there they see two people kicking and hitting to try to get in. Of course, they are terrified and call the police. The police answer and hear through the phone how this sounds. The police say, "Oh, oh, no matter what you do, don't open the door." But unfortunately, we don't have a patrol to send. This attempted burglary and this experience of terror lasted for an hour before the perpetrators left. It could have ended much worse than that. But it's terrible. Even those living in rural areas, far from the nearest city, must be able to rely on the police to protect them when they most need it. Mr President, I would like to That is also basically what economic policy is all about, namely that we can ensure that the economy grows, that we have the ability to conduct a sensible stabilisation policy and that we then allocate and prioritise resources where they are needed most so that the state can be strong where the state should be strong and so that the police can also send a patrol to the Middle East. It is therefore completely incomprehensible and irresponsible for the four parties that are now presenting a budget to cut resources to the police. Yes, I think it's good that the prison services now have more resources. We will support that. But don't cut the budget for the police.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-605	One can imagine that the four parties that have now negotiated a budget have been negotiating for very many hours. But the question when you read this is: What have they negotiated? Have they negotiated how to stop the escape from the police profession? Have they negotiated how to reduce the shootings – or what is often pure executions –? Have they negotiated a sustainable and tight migration policy or how to break the dependency on subsidies? No, the really difficult issues are not included either in any agreement or in the budget that we are now debating. The Social Democrats are in their fifth year of government. During that time there have been fewer police officers, care queues have doubled, accidents at work have also increased, integration problems have increased, and so have emissions according to SCB. Unemployment targets have been scrapped and growth per capita is now almost lowest across the EU. All of this happens in prosperity, and all this happens when the Social Democrats rule Sweden. There was a time when good Social Democrats said: Do your duty – demand your right! Now the rest of us are saying it. There was a time when the Social Democrats were perceived as justice, or at least perceived themselves as it, but it was a long time ago. Now we see a completely different policy. It is not fair that some people work hard at work and pay for others to be more free. That's why we Moderates say no to free years. It is also not fair that for some people it pays better to live on subsidies than to work, Mr President. That is why we Moderates want to introduce a ceiling on subsidies. It is not fair for those living in rural areas to bear the heaviest economic burden of reducing emissions. That is why we say 'no' to higher taxes on petrol and diesel. It is certainly not fair either that the police only come to some, while for others – like those in the Middle East – it is not even worth calling. That's why we need more cops, and they need a higher salary. And it is not fair that Swedish IS terrorists are welcomed back and cared for in Sweden, while we are showing people who are here and working with their excellence and contributing to Swedish growth, Mr President. All this is happening in the Sweden where the Social Democrats rule. Löfven and Andersson are ultimately responsible for this. How many times, Mr President, have we moderates pointed out these problems and injustices to the government? Yet the government has not done what is necessary. But then, in January 2019, something happens: The police are getting a huge addition to reach 10,000 more police employees by 2024. A special effort is being made on the police's salaries in order for them to be 1 000 SEK higher in the month as early as 2019 – if the government delivers. We're starting a record on the defense. A queue billion, which is actually several queue billions, is introduced to deal with the long care queues. Municipalities and county councils are strengthened by 5 billion in order for them to maintain the quality of their welfare. Important climate investments are being made that lead to real climate benefits. The tax on work is reduced so that it pays better for everyone to go to work, and every pensioner received a tax reduction on 1 January.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-612	This happened in 2019, during the fifth year of the Social Democrats in power. Then it happened, and it was we – the Moderates and the Christian Democrats – who took responsibility and made it happen. You didn't do it, Magdalena Andersson. Much more needs to be done. Years of priorities and reforms are needed with a view to the future. The Minister of Finance and many of her colleagues often talk about the 1930s, and there may be reasons to do so. However, we need to focus even more on the 2030s. How will Sweden be better for the next generation? What reforms are needed now and throughout the 20th century in order for Sweden to have stronger growth, more growing companies and better welfare services in 2030? How can more people support themselves, even when we go into recession, and at the same time have a monthly salary at the bank? How can integration become part of solving the problems of the future rather than being a problem? These are the major tasks for the years to come. Sweden should be a country where everyone does their part but where everyone also gets something back. It is basically the new Swedish model that v i Moderates want to build. I am convinced that Sweden can be a better country in 2030 than Sweden is today, but reform efforts are needed for that. We can't find that force of reform in the government. When the government had the chance to join our line, it did not. You don't do anything about the shootings. You don't do anything to keep the police in the whole country. Nothing is being done to break benefit dependency and make it more profitable for everyone to work. The necessary reforms are not being implemented that can eventually boost growth and thus secure welfare. It's unbelievable. Mr President, I would like to I think it is painfully clear to many of us in here – now that we have again been visited by the Minister of Finance, who comes here with his budgets and goes – that unfortunately Sweden's very big social problems still persist.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-617	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson does not want us to learn from the 30th century. I feel a little iskyla walking through my body when I hear it. Where are the Moderates going? However, that is not what I was going to ask you. Elisabeth Svantesson addresses many social problems in her post. There is no difference between us when it comes to the will to deal with social problems, but we probably have different attitudes to how it should be done. The budget passed by the Moderates clearly showed how to solve social problems, namely by reducing taxes. For where did you put the emphasis? It was not on the police, not on the health care and not on the school, but the largest amount of space was used to reduce the tax by 20 billion. Something good happened in this election, and it was that for the first time the Moderates promised to close the tax gap between pensioners and wage earners. Today, pensioners pay higher taxes than wage earners, which is a legacy from the time of the alliance government. But what was done in its first post-election draft budget? With these 20 billion in tax cuts, a new tax gap was created, with 3 billion SEK in higher taxes for the pensioner collective. I would like to know, Elisabeth Svantesson: Why did you increase the tax gap by 3 billion for Swedish pensioners?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-620	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate that Magdalena Andersson has started to use the word. It is a rather new phenomenon that this government is talking about them at all. I hope that the next step will be not only to talk about and see the problems, but also to come up with powerful reforms – as we did in December. Strengthening the police, prioritising defence and prioritising welfare were clear priorities in order for us to address social problems. Swedish pensioners, and all Swedish employees, should be very happy and pleased that we and our budget won in December. This meant that pensioners had a greater tax cut than they would otherwise have had. Since we reduced the tax for everyone, we also reduced the tax for pensioners more than Magdalena Andersson had intended to do. We are fully committed to closing that gap completely, and we will take it step by step in the future. However, we took a first important step and therefore reduced the tax on all pensioners. It wasn't in the Social Democrats' plan. I am proud of the budget that won in this House in December. It may be the only tax cut for ordinary wage earners that we will experience in these years. I think it is a good thing to remove the military tax, but I wonder whether ordinary wage earners and all pensioners will continue to receive tax reductions during this term of office – as in our budget.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-623	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson says that she wants to reduce the tax gap between pensioners and employees step by step. But you widened it, Elisabeth Svantesson. What you did when you had the chance was not to narrow the gap; you increased it. You increased the injustice between pensioners and employees. The Moderates created this unfair tax gap during their years of government. Five times the gorge was widened, and when you had the chance again, you widened it a sixth time. You didn't answer the question, Elisabeth Svantesson: Now that you had in common and reduced the tax by 20 billion, why did you choose to increase the tax gap by 3 billion? You can't say that you want to narrow the gap step by step if you actually increase it when you have the chance. Why did you increase the gap? What's the motive? Why is it important for pensioners to be taxed instead of being honored?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-625	Mr President, I would like to This is, once again, a strange way of looking at justice. All pensioners received tax cuts with our budget, which they had not got with any other budget. That's good to know. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced, and will ensure, that during this parliamentary term we are moving towards closing the gap completely. Our alliance parties – the partners you now have, Magdalena Andersson – and we lowered the tax in many steps, both for those who work and for pensioners. We first made a tax cut for those who work. This increased employment. Then we could reduce the tax on pensions, and so we continued at that rate. That's what we did now. What was unique in December was that all pensioners received reduced taxes, both those with the lowest income and those with the highest income. Both I and the Minister for Finance know – I think we should be honest when we are in the Swedish Parliament – that not all pensioners would have had a reduced tax if a Social Democratic government had been allowed to continue already this autumn, as they would have liked. Fair to me is that all employees and pensioners receive reduced tax.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-629	Mr President, I would like to The issue of justice is central. It's about security and freedom. Therefore, it is very clear from the spring proposal that the appropriations will increase significantly during this term of office – from 49.2 billion, which we are now allocating, to 53.9 billion by 2022. This is an increase of almost 5 billion. This is due to the sharp increase in ambition that exists with us trying to add 10 000 new police workers to reduce crime and increase security. I understand that there is agreement on this. The budget that was now going through came through under some special circumstances. A lot in the budget is good, we Liberals think. The embodiment was mentioned. Tax cuts are good. Many other investments, including in the judicial system, are also good. However, we now have to add EUR 820 million to this spring change budget to the overall judicial system. I want to hear if Elisabeth Svantesson thinks it is a good initiative and if she thinks it contributes to a stronger judicial system or vice versa.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-633	Mr President, I would like to It's obvious every day of the week that we Moderates think it's good to continue reinforcements throughout the judiciary. We think it's good that money comes to the correctional department. We think it is good if it can continue to get money to the Prosecution Authority and to the judiciary. We have demonstrated this in all our budgets in recent years. Former government had huge problems investing in the judiciary. I should like to congratulate Johan Pehrson and the Liberals, if you are the ones who have pushed for this. During the last term of office, greater investments were made for building subsidies than for the police – it was very worrying. Yes, I think it is good that this is strengthened. But no, I do not think it is good that the police in this budget have less resources. This applies even if the prison services are given a new assignment, which they received two years ago. Continue to strengthen – we will support it.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-637	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals are very pleased about this. We should be careful about the concept of the 820 million that we are now adding. However, if we make strong efforts on the police, which, after a reorganisation, achieves efficiency, and if we tighten the penalties, this leads to costs for public defenders, courts and prosecutors. In addition, more prison places and rehabilitation are needed, so that people stop committing crimes when they come out at some point. I would like to emphasise this, because sometimes in the debate it has sounded like there would be considerable savings in the judicial system. This spring budget adds 820 million, and we in the Liberals are very happy about that. As far as the changed responsibility is concerned, we believe that the tasks of the police should be refined. We believe that the penal services must, as far as possible, take responsibility for transport. The police are supposed to be out fighting crime. Then there is a reversal where you can bring the money from the police to finance the prison costs. It's no wonder. This has happened in the past and under previously good governments.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-641	Mr President, I would like to Now I think Johan Pehrson is spinning himself in properly. I know you can't say that there are people who will e-mail me if I use that expression, but in all the Moderate budgets in recent years, we have strengthened the law enforcement bodies at all levels. We will continue to do so, and it is good that you do so. But in fact, you save the police-- the police get less money in this spring change budget. You're taking money from the police. I do not think – and we Moderates do not think – that the police have too much money. When I talk to the chief of police in Lycksele, whom I visited just a few weeks ago, I do not hear a sign that he thinks they have too much money and too much resources. They need more money, not less.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-644	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates talk a lot about the effectiveness of environmental policy. In view of this, I would like to ask Elisabeth Svantesson two questions. During the spring, our environmental authorities have adapted their activities to the budget decided by the Riksdag in December. There have been drastic changes which, in some parts, basically run the work that has been built up for a long time. My first question is: In what way do the Moderates think that you can ensure the effectiveness of environmental work when the tools used to assess whether the measures taken have had an effect and whether the impact is proportionate to the social costs of the measures are reduced to a minimum? My second question is about low-hanging fruits. The most effective thing is to stop making mistakes. Although it is very well known that a uniform CO2 tax is the most effective of all tools, we still have many exemptions in Sweden in terms of CO2 tax and energy tax. Emissions cost different depending on who you are, and the pressure to switch is different in different industries. The highest is the pressure on us consumers. Is there, in the name of efficiency, any subsidy of emissions that the Moderates might be willing to rub on?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-650	Mr President, I would like to To answer briefly the last question, we note that petrol and diesel taxes are currently high: two thirds of the cost of one litre is tax, about subsidies and about taxing climate policy. Much of what we are talking about when it comes to subsidies is also supported by Moderates; it is not that we are tearing up everything that the previous government did. But Karolina Skog is into something interesting, namely efficiency. Karolina Skog has been Minister for the Environment, and the Green Party has also held the minister's post for climate issues. During the time that Karolina Skog sat in the government, emissions did not decrease. There is sometimes a strange thought that some things get better the more money we spend on them. When it comes to policemen, it is clear that – you hire another police officer. However, in recent years climate action has been characterised by a great deal of symbolic policy. Speaking of efficiency, it is not I who think that the government has had an ineffective climate policy, but it is actually all the authorities that are evaluating this. For example, the Konjunkturinstitutet has been very clear that seven out of eight interventions are not climate-smart or effective. The Swedish National Audit Office has actually completely condemned the Climate Scene, which you are now spending almost 800 million on. Karolina Forest's first question, which I can hardly remember now, was about how to measure efficiency. We have several authorities that constantly evaluate and review the government's policies and that state that it is not climate-smart.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-656	Mr President, I would like to It was clear that I did not get an answer to any of my two questions, but there is one line left. When the budget that the Moderates pushed through in the Riksdag became known, a group of researchers went out and alerted about the consequences. These are researchers who work with environmental monitoring at sea. They follow developments in the environment and follow up the measures taken and their actual effect on nature. That is the basis for all other future measures taken by other authorities. Through long-term monitoring, they create an understanding of large-scale and long-term effects of change. They said that they are now going to have to stop doing this work and to stop monitoring the effects of the actual measures being taken. This was a clear warning. It was a direct effect of Elisabeth Svantesson's policy. What was your plan? Did you have a plan, or was it just a slaughter? Was it just tax cuts you were looking for?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-660	Mr President, I would like to I have heard here the word slaughter connected with the environment and climate a few times. The budget that we received in December was the second largest budget in terms of climate and environmental policy that has been passed here ever. In addition, we invested in climate aid and on the green industries that are important for the transition, so there was no climate slaughter. But what we focus on is to make climate policy more effective. I assume Karolina Skog is looking for the resources of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. When administrative appropriations are reduced, as we did to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and other authorities, it is still a matter of doing what is most important, what is most prioritised. For example, to argue that we cannot now have mosquito control in East Uppland, for example, because of our budget is pure nonsense on the part of the authorities and the government. You choose different parts of the budget and claim that it depends on us, when you yourself can give priority to what is important. If the government prioritises this as important to measure, it can certainly do so. So little money doesn't have the Environmental Protection Agency.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-665	Mr President, I would like to It did not take very long for the Minister of Finance to return to the almost warlike rhetoric towards the country's small businessmen that, unfortunately, we all became too familiar with during the previous parliamentary term. Some of the first political proposals we have heard from the Ministry of Finance since the elections have been about how we can increase the tax burden on small and growing companies, that is, precisely those that ensure that people end up in jobs and, by extension, enable us to finance and maintain a something like that when functioning welfare activities in the form of school, health care and care. I want to make it clear that my party and, I believe, the other two opposition parties in this House – you may correct me if I am wrong, but I do not think I am – are prepared to act sharply against any initiative aimed at reducing the 3:12 framework or otherwise increasing the tax burden on the country's entrepreneurs. If this is what will be the outcome of the tax reform that you will at least try to agree on, not least the Center Party and the Liberals have a great deal to answer for, to say the least. Mr President, I would like to I do not really have any fundamental, ideological or, in any case, economic objections to a somewhat lower marginal tax in Sweden. I just find it a little fascinating in a way that an absolute majority, somewhere over 90 per cent of Sweden's employees, that is, all those who have an annual income of less than SEK 703 000 per year, do not get a penny more in their wallet. Those with an annual income in excess of SEK 703,000 a year receive a fairly substantial tax relief, and it is a fairly high income. We're talking about almost 60,000 kroner a month. Anyone who doesn't make more than 60,000 a month, which is the vast majority, won't get a penny more in his wallet. The Swedish Democrats are also proposing in the budget options we are presenting fairly substantial reductions in income tax. We think it's wise. But then they are aimed at everyone, both those who have a high level of income and those who have a low level of income from employment and all those in between, and both those who have income from employment, i.e. employees, and those who have income in the form of pensions. Of course, lowering taxes on just those who have a high income from service and who have a high income from service and completely ignore everyone else is a priority. It can be done, but I just note that I had given a different priority. Mr President, I would like to Objectives are generally a good thing. It's hard to know if you succeed or fail with anything if you don't know what the goal is. But objectives must be sensible in themselves, otherwise they are meaningless or even directly counterproductive. They must also be something like that when realistic. Having the lowest unemployment rate in the EU, which was the government's main promise to voters, is a typical example of a poor objective. It is bad because it does not say anything about the state of the Swedish labour market, that is, it can be bad in Sweden, but as long as everyone else is even worse we can still achieve goals none. But anyone who is unemployed in Sweden does not necessarily get happier knowing that there are even more unemployed in Greece, Italy or France. Whoever's out of work wants a job. In addition, everyone, apart from the government itself, understood that this was not a realistic goal either. Since it was introduced, we have lost and lost and are now in 19th place. It is not an overly honorable place in a club with only 28 members and especially not too honorable for the one who promised that we would be in 1st place, not 19th. But it should surely be for a social democrat to save himself from that situation by completely abolishing the very objective. It no longer applies, as if nothing has happened. After all, it was a Social-Democrat who made himself known for the following quote: That's a problem for us. ..................................................... This is, of course, linked to the historically low GDP growth per capita, which for the current year amounts to only 3 per mille – per mille, nota bene. Had we had needs-adjusted labour migration instead of this deeply, deeply irresponsible asylum and family migration, the figures would have been quite different. Mr President, I would like to If you're going to allow yourself to be semi-aggressive, you can divide people into three different groups. There are those who learn from others' mistakes and thus avoid making a lot of mistakes themselves. It is an extremely desirable quality but also very unusual. Most of us don't belong to that group. Most of us make mistakes on and off, in large and small, but at least we learn something from them. We may take with us expensive but at least valuable experiences. And when we face a similar problem one more time, we may do it in a slightly different way. That's how they all work, most of them. Then there is a third category. These are the ones who make mistakes, just like most people, but they learn absolutely nothing. They make the same mistake over and over again. Then you have somewhere a marginal pull towards the slightly imbecile direction. And that's about where we find Sweden's current government. Just the mistakes that have been made over and over again in the past with regard to migration policy are now being made again by loosening and liberalising immigration policy. Nothing has been learned at all from one's past mistakes. Facilitating family immigration will of course increase family migration to Sweden, and it will increase asylum immigration as Sweden becomes a more attractive country to apply to, relative to other Western countries, which in turn will lead to further increased family migration. All the warning bells are ringing, everything's whining, every light is flashing red. Do you not understand now, with all the information on segregation, shadow communities, parallel communities, exclusion, a welfare that goes on your knees, police crisis, honour violence, overcrowding detention centres and returning IS terrorists that Swedish society cannot cope with even more migration-related pressures, then I wonder if the lift really goes all the way up. Something's missing. Mr President, I would like to When I finally think of the small improbable five-leaf constellation that in some strange way has come to rule Sweden, I will think of the old American aircraft engineer Edward A Murphy. He was the author of Murphys's law, a little rewritten to get the approximate meaning that if anything can go wrong, it will also go wrong. If, then, the good Murphy was right, if you take his team and apply it to this January agreement, we can only say that you are in for a ride. If everything that might go wrong with this agreement also does it feels pretty good to belong to an opposition party.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-680	Mr President, I would like to It was an interesting speech by Oscar Sjöstedt in many ways. But there is one thing in the economic policy of the Swedish Democrats that I do not really get together. The Swedish Democrats usually say that their policies benefit low- and middle-income earners, but when I read in your budget motion it is very clear that the richest tenth receives almost twice as much as the tenth that has the lowest income. The 10 percent in Sweden with the highest income thus receives twice as much as those with the lowest income. Of course, you can think that is reasonable, if you now think so, but at the same time the Swedish Democrats write that a Swedish Democrat's budget is aimed primarily at individuals with low incomes. This doesn't really make sense, Oscar Sjöstedt. One cannot invest twice as much in the tenth with the highest income, while saying that it is aimed above all at those with the lowest income. Which of these is not correct?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-682	Mr President, I would like to Does the Minister of Finance understand the difference between relative and absolute terms? Obviously not. In relative terms, with the overall reforms, therefore, if we take our budgetary policies and measure everything that can be measured, the lowest income group benefits relatively most. Then there's a falling scale. Even the highest income group benefits from our budgetary policy but not as much as the lowest. If you do the same and instead of income distribution, we look at age distribution, on the contrary, it is the oldest age group that benefits relatively most, and then it is a falling scale – even the youngest age group benefits but not as much as the oldest. Then you can look at the sex too. Then we see that there is a certain list for women. They benefit relatively more than men with our overall budgetary policy.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-683	Mr President, I would like to Oscar Sjöstedt is now talking about relative percentages. But you don't buy so many winter boots for the children with relative percentages. Nor do you buy coffee at the diner or even at McDonald's with them. You do not pay the rent with relative percentages, but with real crowns and the crown. When we look at the policy of the Swedish Democrats and look at what it is in real crowns and the ear, that is, what you pay with, you see that twice as much goes to the tenth that earns the most in relation to the tenth that earns the least. Why is this correct policy? Then, while he is at it, Oscar Sjöstedt can also answer why he was voting through a budget reservation that increased the tax gap between pensioners and employees by 3 billion. Why should Sweden's pensioners pay higher taxes than employees?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-685	Mr President, I would like to It is correct that you do not pay the rent as a percentage. It's true. But you might pay it with housing allowance. Then it may be an idea to increase the housing allowance so that the families with children who have very tough margins meet. They can use that to pay the rent. They do. We can raise the BTP, i.e. the housing supplement for pensioners who are in very poor condition. They can pay the rent, too. We can raise the ceiling in the unemployment fund for those who are outside the labour market. You can also pay the rent with that money. We can increase the guarantee pension by 1 000 SEK a month. It can also be used to pay the rent. This isn't the percentage, it's the crown and the crown. These reforms, which we want to do and which the government has been so opposed to, give us this strong distribution when we do the distributional analysis of our budgetary policy. It is a strong reinforcement for the very lowest income group and then on a falling scale to the highest.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-689	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have been involved in driving through large savings on the Swedish Public Employment Service and are therefore also co-responsible for one of the greatest premonitions of our time. They are now co-sponsored for 4 500 people at risk of losing their jobs – professional employment intermediaries who are really needed at work to bring more people who are far from the labour market closer to the labour market and at work. More than half of all the country's offices are in danger of disappearing and, above all, small rural municipalities are hit very hard. At home in Gävleborg five out of ten offices disappear, and then we are still the county with the highest unemployment rate, with over 10 000 who are far from the labour market, and this is mainly because they have not passed primary school or have upper secondary school education. In Oscar Sjöstedt's constituency in Västmanland there are about 11 000 openly unemployed or in programmes, and even there half of the offices disappear. Fagersta, a place of use with high unemployment, loses his office, and also affects Arboga and Hallstahammar. In fact, the Swedish Democrats wanted even greater savings than those implemented. But, Mr President, I really wonder what Oscar Sjöstedt has to say to all the 4,500 people who have been given notice and are in danger of losing their jobs, to their families and to all those who need the professional employment services of the Employment Service in order to get support and help. And what does he say to the rural communities like Fagersta who are hard hit by the cuts and will have increased costs?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-693	Mr President, I would like to This will be a rhetorical question, but when you stand here with Mr Andersson, there may still not be much of a rhetorical question. Even the Left Party can't seriously think that we should have government agencies just for them to have a lot of employees. There must be a function of having an authority. We cannot have an authority for that authority to employ a lot of people. As I said, it was a rhetorical question, but you get a little insecure when dealing with Mr Andersson. My problem with Arbetsförmedlingen has, of course, not to do with those who work there. My problem with Arbetsförmedlingen is not that it is expensive – not really. It would have had to be expensive, and even more expensive than it is, if it had worked and something had happened in the end and turned out that a few more than just a few percent have been in the Arbetsförmedlingen which then came out to work have done it because they have been in a turn at Arbetsförmedlingen. That's not how people get jobs today; people get jobs in other ways. It is clear that it is tough to be a politician sometimes, but does not work an authority or if for some reason it is not needed and is to be closed, there will be a notice of those who are employed in that authority. Unfortunately, this is not an argument for maintaining an authority. If you are to have an authority, it must play a role in society. I am convinced that the majority, not to say 100%, of these 4,500 people will find a new job without going to their former employer, but they will manage it differently. If we are to get people to work, it is quite different kinds of measures that are needed. It is part of our labour market policy to cut back on what does not work – all these pointless programmes and efforts – and then we can spend our money on other things in labour market policy. There are a lot of things that I can recite, but to mention the most important thing, it is of course about reducing employers' contributions for the smallest companies. Then we create lots of jobs – real jobs and not subsidised fake jobs. It was just one example, because unfortunately I don't have time for any more.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-698	Mr President, I would like to I note that Oscar Sjöstedt does not have any support in research or empirical research for what he says. In fact, active labour market policies have had very good results. I also think that Oscar Sjöstedt should perhaps look at what the Public Employment Service actually does and does not keep spreading myths. Arbetsförmedlingen works with those who are furthest from the labour market, i.e. those who have the greatest need for help and support. Both labour market training and various forms of employment support have very good results. Then you need professional employment services that can actually help those who are far removed from the labour market. I notice that, instead of taking responsibility for the consequences of its policies on rural municipalities, the unemployed and all those who are in danger of losing their jobs, Oscar Sjöstedt pretends that reducing employers' contributions for small businesses would have some effect when everyone knows that in practice it does not, because it has been tried.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-701	Mr President, I would like to We're definitely going to have professional employment agencies. They just don't have to work for the government. Australia has its model. They've privatized. You don't have to do exactly as in Australia. They have their conditions, and we have ours. However, when they evaluated their reorientation and reform of labour market policies and their employment services, it turned out that it was precisely the group that Mr Andersson is so much concerned about – and there we are in agreement – those who are the furthest from the labour market, who benefited most from the reform. Of course we should have professional employment agencies. But they don't have to work for the government. They can work somewhere else. I'm not spreading myths. These are the facts from the statistics. It can be accessed. It's not weird. There is no intrinsic value in being against an authority, if it works. It would be great if it did. The problem is, it doesn't. That is why we are against it and have other solutions instead.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-706	Mr President, I would like to If you surf into the Swedish Democrats' website, you can read the following: During our term of office we have had the greatest actual aid proposal every year, which is why we have a particular credibility in this matter. 中 A particular credibility, it says. But last autumn the Swedish democrats in their own shadow budget came forward with demands that the aid offer should not only decrease a little, but it would decrease by 25 percent directly. It's not a cutback. It's a huge cut. According to the Swedish Democrats' proposal, the important aid target of 1 per cent of BNI would be cut by 11.3 billion in 2019. We can only imagine how such a proposal would affect maternal and child health services in Uganda, the demining of playgrounds in Iraq, efforts to maintain freedom of expression and press in Belarus or, for that matter, refugees in conflict zones. It is also interesting to see how the rhetoric of Sweden's democrats regarding aid has changed. Just now, increases were urgent, higher than the government suggested, in an attempt to give credibility to the policy of aid in the immediate region of the crisis. However, when a press conference last autumn announced that it would be possible to vote for a moderate and Christian-democratic budget in a second vote, it was not thanks to it, but despite the high ambitions of the budget in the field of aid. Then Jimmie Åkesson said :中 It is problematic that KD is pushing for a larger framework for aid than M and we want. But we have to live with the fact that we're not in charge. ..................................................... My question is: What are you going to write on the website, Oscar Sjöstedt? Sweden's most anti-assisting party is well quite given. But what else will it say?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-710	Mr President, I would like to We pass that question on to someone who works with such things. It is problematic that you want to spend so much money on aid, Jakob Forssmed. We thought that the joint reservation you had spoken to the Moderates about was so much better than the alternative that it received our support anyway. But it's problematic. First of all, Sweden stands out internationally in this respect too. That's just the way it is. There is no Western country that has an ambition of 1% of GDP, or that lies there. They may have that level of ambition, but they do not. If we had received 51 per cent of the votes in the elections, if it were our budget that was in force and if we had to decide everything, Sweden would still have an internationally very high level of ambition, at least on a pecuniary basis, in terms of aid. Our target level is the target level recommended by the UN, which is 0.7% of GDP. We lie down at the UN-recommended level, and then the Member of Forssmed is very upset. Maybe we're not in complete agreement here. I guess it's just like that. But Sweden cannot do everything. Should we have that logic, I wonder why we should only add 1%. Then we can add 10%. We have needs here, in this country, which this debate has been about quite a lot: the police and the elderly. These are priorities. I'm not saying it's super simple all the time. It definitely isn't. But that job is what we're set to do here. The financial authorities are here with us. In our budget option, we go to the UN-recommended level, at 0.7% of bni. We have come to the conclusion that this is a reasonable figure. There I and Jakob Forssmed disagree. That's what happened.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-717	Mr President, I would like to So I was on the Swedish Democrats' website yesterday, Oscar Sjöstedt. Then you claimed that you have a particular credibility on the issue of aid because you are spending more money than the government and that this is very important. It says that you have had the biggest actual aid offer every year. But now you've suddenly changed your mind and want to cut 11 billion on a board to the most vulnerable people in the world. Of course we'll be upset about it. It is also interesting that you said in the last parliamentary term that you are looking at the urgent needs that exist and that it is unacceptable that more countries should not be involved in contributing. That was your motive then for having a higher level of aid than the government. The fact that others are not contributing is now a motive for having a dramatically lower level. Why have you changed your mind about aid? Is it simply that it is not about aid? It is about giving credibility to your rhetoric about helping on the ground instead of helping people in Sweden.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-720	Mr President, I would like to It's not just about the size of the crowns and the crowns. It is also a little bit about the direction. Sweden has been pumping regular budget support into dictatorships, which is not great. There are terrible examples that our aid has done damage, where it has cost us money and has then caused damage in the recipient country. There are plenty of such examples. So it is not entirely unproblematic. It's not just saying, I spend the most money. That's why I won because I had the best politics. It's not quite that simple. We focus aid on crisis and disaster areas, where the needs are greatest. You can't make it just a matter of spending the most money. In fact, a lot of Swedish aid has also caused quite a lot of damage around the world. It's a fact.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-723	Mr President, I would like to Oscar Sjöstedt performs some dynamic analyses of psychiatric conditions, whether we humans are imbecilla or whatever it was. I am not interested in Oscar Sjöstedt's psychiatric diagnosis but very well in his view of dynamics. Taxes came up here. For us liberals, it is quite clear that taxes should be designed in a smart way. We know that reduced taxes can lead to increased tax revenues. It's important to have with you. I see, for example, that Göran Persson's former staff, now the Minister for Education, is sitting in this Chamber. She was involved in cutting taxes by 90 billion. Tax revenues increased. As a liberal, I love big tax revenue. But, as I said, it has very little to do with the levels of taxation we have. Then we had a bourgeois government, an alliance government. Then taxes were also reduced by about the same amount. And you know what? Tax revenues increased. We in this House were given more resources for health care, for schools, for welfare, for the police and for defence. Oscar Sjöstedt is storming against the military tax, this temporary tax, which we know drives knowledge out of the country and, as we know, contributes to a worse functioning economy. You can check this with the Council of Finance Ministers, the OECD, the Economics Association – a whole series. Has Oscar Sjöstedt read this? Does he believe that reduced tax can lead to increased tax revenue? Oscar Sjöstedt believes in dynamics? Or is he only capable of static thinking when designing his economic policy?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-728	Mr President, I would like to Since I started working with politics, I've been told that the Laffer curve is right-wing. No, I don't think that's the way it is. I absolutely believe that, as Mr Pehrson says, there are dynamic effects. I wouldn't really like to paint it like I'm going to storm against the war tax's good or non-goods. I even think that I said – if I speak freely from memory – something in the sense that I do not really have any particular principled, ideological or, in any case, financial objections to it. What I'm reacting to is something else. One can take a national economic approach and land in a certain thing. But it is not economists who rule the country or the world, at least not normally. You need a different approach, too. Somewhere there is a question of a broader and deeper legitimacy of the whole tax system. Of course, if you do this alone, just this and nothing else, you get a question back. It comes as a letter in the mail: Anyone who works part-time in the care and gets out- what do I know - really little doesn't get a crown. However, anyone who is a Member of Parliament, Speaker or Governor of the Bank receives huge tax cuts. It is therefore more a question of a broader principled approach to the tax system. In order to maintain and have a kind of legitimacy for it, one should not just have the economic approach of dynamic effects or non-being. I think you should think about it one more time.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-733	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that there is an ounce of light in Swedish democratic static thinking. We are returning to the tax levels that Mr Ingvar Carlsson, former Social Democratic Prime Minister, was behind, and that cannot be called extreme politics. Then we've completely lost the concepts here. But that has happened in the past in this House. We must agree on this. Dynamic effects of reduced taxation can result in greater tax revenues, and I love that as a liberal. This can enable the woman you mentioned to get full time in Örebro municipality when she is working in home care and supporting welfare. You mentioned yourself that reducing employers' contributions is very good. So do we Liberals. Now we have a budget that ensures that the tax is drastically reduced for the first job. There will also be reduced tax on the first employee. Do Oscar Sjöstedt and the Swedish Democrats think that it is good and that it, as it is also signalled by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Entrepreneurs, creates more new jobs?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-736	Madam President, I would like Let me answer the last question first. We have a little different entrance and also go forward with tangible relief in the employer's fee. However, we have a slightly different model from what you have come up with. What is unfortunate is that you have joined the socialist side. You'll get some politics through-- maybe not very much, I think, observing this from outside. After all, there is a majority in this House to go forward with another tax policy. I think we should use this majority in a completely different way. However, you have chosen not to be a part of it. Then it is also a question of priorities. We focus mainly on ordinary employees and pensioners, but also high income earners had benefited from the tax relief that we are promoting. I just find it unfortunate that 92% of employees are not allowed to be on this train.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-739	Madam President, I would like When we present this spring change budget and our proposal, I can say that for the Center Party, the process that has led to this day has been about one thing: delivering substantive political success that brings Sweden forward. We have had a full focus on getting the political reforms and results in place that Sweden needs. We are presenting this budget in a relatively good economic situation. Clearly, negative clouds begin to materialize on the horizon. But still the forecasts we have suggest that there will be resources to invest in wise new things to both strengthen welfare as well as make balanced tax cuts and in different ways build Sweden stronger. However, it is clear that there are a number of worrying clouds that could very quickly affect Sweden's economic situation for the worse. We know from experience from past cyclical fluctuations that it can go very quickly from sunshine to not only the clouds of unrest but full economic storm. There is every reason to keep our eyes on the ball constantly and watch the macro-image change so that we can take measures to ensure that we have a balanced economic policy that is adapted to the economic situation in which we now find ourselves. But at the moment, as I said, it looks like we will be able to strengthen economic policy. We will be able to make new investments that build our country stronger. The Minister of Finance and other actors in the debate have been easily critical of the budget that went through the Riksdag just before Christmas. Let me be the good cop for the constellation of four parties behind that budget. There were very good things in the draft budget decided by Parliament. It was right to step up the defence efforts, and that was a good thing. It was wise to bring in more municipal money and money to strengthen prosperity locally and regionally. And as a centre party, I think it was right to introduce tax reductions for low and middle income earners in the form of job tax deductions. It is wise that this is firm. However, a number of mistakes were also made in Parliament's budget decisions last autumn. We are now correcting these through this spring change budget. As a center party, liberal and participant in this constellation, I note that the economic policy pursued is becoming a bit of the best of two worlds. It will be a good combination of what was good in this autumn's decision and the wise policy we are now doing in the form of correcting the things that went wrong. The budget we are now presenting contains a number of things, Madam President, which are very good for Sweden. I would argue that the budget rests above all on four legs:
i-3955fc806ba8c046-750	Going forward with a budget with such a centre of gravity is an easy cross to bear for a center party. During my allotted speaking time, I would like to present some of the budget highlights. When it comes to jobs and entrepreneurship, we are making a number of sharp changes that will make it easier for our job creators from mid-year onwards. We know that the new jobs in Sweden are emerging in small and growing companies. When we then reduce the employer's contribution for those companies that do their first job and permanentise the reduction that has existed in the past and also in two steps remove the employer's contribution if you hire young people between the ages of 15 and 18, it will further boost job creation in our country. That is good and wise policy. Gender equality was a rather prominent theme in the Centre Party's election movement, which is now more than six months away. Time flies when you're having fun. Here we get a number of initiatives in place to strengthen Swedish gender equality. We sometimes think that we live in the world's most equal country. The question is whether that's true. Whether this is true or not, further efforts must be made to strengthen the work. It is very good that we now get reinforcements in place for women's and women's shelters and efforts against honour-related violence as well as initiatives at NCK, the National Centre for Women's Peace. Here I also want to lift up the small but important effort that is being made to strengthen women's entrepreneurship. More young girls need role models in their mothers, sisters, aunts and aunts, i.e. good women close to you who run businesses. It's about female CEOs, chairman of the board and principal owners of companies. This is an important part of Swedish gender equality, and it is very good that we can also prioritise this. Madam President, I would like I'm going to try to describe a picture I've seen in a number of contexts. It is from summer's drought and the fires that came in the tracks of drought. The picture shows the contours of a Swedish pine forest against the Fund of a wall of smoke. Tough against this wall of smoke and this fire core you see a tractor, a John Deere, with a Swedish flag waving up on the roof and a manure wagon that is attached back there. For me, this will be a very clear symbol of why we need to have a green business in place all over the country. It's the spine for so much else. Had we not had Sweden's farmers with tractors, manure trucks and labour, it would still have burned out in the Swedish forests, despite the winter. By then, billions of dollars had disappeared into thin air. It was a large part of the infrastructure that dealt with this very difficult situation. To further strengthen this and take new steps to strengthen that part of the Swedish green economy, we are already making a number of important investments in this spring change budget: SEK 350 million in train support, SEK 150 million for forest owners, SEK 100 million for broadband expansion and much more. It is a first step in strengthening this part of rural policy. More will come. We must fill the peasant package that the January agreement overlooks with content. When the farmers are doing well, the countryside is doing well, and when the countryside is doing well, Sweden is doing well. We have received new stronger arguments for investing in this part of the Swedish business community with the climate challenge that was not least materialised in summer fires. I am very proud that we can take the first steps in this direction already in this spring change budget. This was a reminder that something is happening to our weather and climate. We are likely to face new and bigger challenges in the wake of climate change. Here, Sweden must move from talk to results. We need to get back to the situation that we have had for many years, where economic success is matched with environmental policy success and declining emissions. Here, too, a number of efforts are being made to quickly get started with the development. We are correcting a few things that went wrong in the winter budget decisions. We are adding the money that was lost for the expansion of solar panels and solar cells in the household sector. We are investing in a first step in achieving negative emission technologies. We also have a rather powerful green tax exchange. That is how we finance the job tax cuts in this budget. We are raising a number of environmental taxes to find room to lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. This is a wise way of building the right basic incentives for greening economic policy. I am very pleased that we have delivered results both in the January agreement and now in sharp politics that kicks off already until the mid-year. Jobs, gender equality, rural areas and the environment are a reasonable priority for this spring change budget. I am proud to have contributed to this in a small corner. This is a good start. But this term of office must deliver so much more. We have a number of processes that will now kick-start when it comes to tax review and a new impetus for the infrastructure roll-out talks. With regard to the further expansion of defence, the effective process within the Defence Committee must now continue with the economic-political conditioning that this entails. All these areas and much more will require broad agreements. I hope that the Center Party will be able to be a bridge for building broad responsible majorities and tackling the social problems that we have been doing too little for quite a long time to face. This spring change budget is a good first step.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-763	Madam President, I would like I read the other day a change of line between Ulla Andersson and Emil Källström, where Emil Källström wrote: The countryside is our soul. I'm sure that's how it is for the Center Party and Emil Källström. But when I read the January agreement and the spring change budget, I can feel that they have probably had to compromise some with that soul. As Emil Källström says, the Center Party supports environmental taxes of 15 billion. What it means in practice is that the over-indexation of petrol and diesel taxes comes back. It is the one who beats the hardest against those who live outside the big city and try to make ends meet. You have to drive to football, pick up from preschool and get to work, and the bus rarely goes. Just a few years ago, the Center Party was the main driving force of all parties here in Parliament to ensure that the air tax was not introduced. They were even prepared to set aside a minister for this. I agree with the criticism that Emil Källström had at the time. It is a tax that does not really reduce emissions or do any climate benefit, but which makes it significantly more expensive for people, even in rural areas, to travel in Sweden and from here. But now the Center Party welcomes the airline tax. My simple and straightforward question is: in what way does air tax and increased taxes on petrol and diesel benefit rural areas?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-767	Madam President, I would like As Elisabeth Svantesson probably knows, our criticism of the airline tax remains. We think that this could have been done much better. We also think it is a good thing that we now agree that what we want to see instead, namely the involvement of biofuels and so on, should happen. It will now be a workshop. I think that is a good thing, because we need to switch flights in a climate-friendly direction. The criticism of the airline tax remains. The arguments remain. But this is how compromises work. When we see what we are getting in the second wave, such as tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship and the investments in rural areas that I was speaking about, the bowl of wise center politics weighs so much heavier than the bowl with, among other things, air taxes. I do not need Elisabeth Svantesson's help to say that the green tax exchange must be designed wisely. I am the first to admit that it is not the easiest thing to be involved in politics in a party that wants to be the best at both environmental, rural and entrepreneurial policies. Not infrequently, these different interests are in conflict with each other, and they must be weighed against each other. With regard to the green tax shift, we need to find environmental tax changes that do not hit rural areas in an unreasonable way. At the same time, there is another balance. Here, too, there are two scales. For every billion that we raise environmental taxes with, other taxes, primarily on jobs and entrepreneurship, are to be reduced. Then it is a question of finding ways to shape this policy so that it benefits entrepreneurship, for example, throughout the country. As we have resolved it in this budget, it will be a very reasonable balance. I intend to return in the next line to the wise balance, but this is simply how we will resolve it. We will ensure that we find policies that work both for the environment, for rural areas and for entrepreneurship. How it works in step one we see in this budget.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-770	Madam President, I would like That was a long answer to a very short question. I asked how this will benefit rural areas. When you are involved in the negotiations, you take responsibility for the whole, just as Emil Källström says. Politics is about prioritising. We gave priority in the December budget, and we will continue to do so. In fact, the Center Party and all the other parties in this budget are now giving away money to the police. This will affect, for example, Emil Källström's own constituency, where Mellansel is located. When you cut the police down, it will affect the police's ability to do their job. You can think what you want about reduced VAT on nature guides. I know that Emil Källström has previously preferred to see reduced taxes on labour and increased VAT on such services. But no matter what – when one prioritises reduced VAT for beaver safaris before money for the police, it has effects, and it affects the countryside.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-773	Madam President, I would like That was a long answer from Elisabeth Svantesson without me asking a single question. When it comes to the police, I think we should play with open cards. Anyone who opens the budget text can say that this is absolutely true. In the line for the police, there's a minus. But that money, and even more, we're taking it over to the Correctional Service. Overall, these two authorities are getting more money. In total, there is even more for the judiciary. This can be criticised if you want to, but I still think that Elisabeth Svantesson goes a little too far when she says that citizens in my constituency will see a difference to the worse because of this policy. It's the other way around. This is a change that is being made in order for police officers to be police officers and to be out catching criminals in the Middle East instead of driving prisoners, which instead the Correctional Service should do. It's a more effective way. To the extent that this will affect the security of my constituents, it is an improvement. It is a transfer that we do to make us work more efficiently: catch more criminals and transport them in a better way. That's how it is.
i-EmKR5ZNvayYoQBN6GGrM31	Madam President, I would like Is the closure of over 130 of Arbetsförmedlingen's rural offices good for rural areas, Emil Källström? To stand for one's politics and political decisions is usually dressy, respectful and good for democracy. Unfortunately, in the case of the Employment Service, it cannot be said that this is what characterises the Centre Party's actions. Instead, they try to place the blame on the Director-General of the Employment Service and thus evade their own responsibilities. It cannot be news for the Centre Party that their policies are having the consequences we are now seeing. The Centre Centres have long wanted to scrap the entire Employment Service and had large, substantial savings in their own budget. It was almost in line with the budget they released, that is, that of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The consequences of that budget were very clear. It was also announced in the Committee on Employment before the budget was adopted that what is happening now would happen. The Centre Party could then have chosen, together with the government, to return the savings, i.e. to provide the Employment Service with resources and avoid the closures of the Employment Service's rural offices. One thing is very strange, except that the Center Party does not stand for what it does. It is that it is not in a single word, not in a series of words, in the budget we are debating that more than 130 offices are disappearing, that the whole premise of active labour market policy is removed, and that it is intended to introduce a huge neo-liberal experiment into employment services. Shouldn't the Center be grown enough, Emil Källström, to stand for its politics?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-781	Madam President, I would like I stand here trying to visualize a government text that contained the words gigantic neo-liberal experiment. I think we will have to wait a while before it is precisely that choice of words that will be used. Ulla Andersson makes exactly the same mistake as Arbetsförmedlingen's management does. What you're saying, Ulla Andersson, is that saving is the same thing as centralization. It's the only way to save money. In the budgets I have put forward in opposition over the last few years, we have seen it quite the opposite. We have seen that authorities should move from expensive city locations to smaller towns as a way of saving money. Had it been the case that in the Centre Party's model for the transformation of Arbetsförmedlingen had it been that one should first put down a lot of offices in rural areas and then take other things in the next step, I would of course have answered the questions asked by Ulla Andersson. It's not like that now. We're annoyed about Arbetsförmedlingen's handling. I would like to note that the Minister responsible also has some objections to the way in which the Public Employment Service has now acted. Of course, it would have been reasonable to do so in the larger cities if this were to be done quickly at all. There are other actors there who can do this and also a stronger labour market. That would have been reasonable. We've been clear about that. There will be a major change in the Arbetsförmedlingen. It needs to work better. We need to have a system of more matching players who are getting better and specialized and who are doing the job. Now it sometimes sounds like the old Arbetsförmedlingen was perfect. But it is, after all, an authority that very few employers use and deliver very poor results at all. The fundamental need for reform remains. On the other hand, neither I nor anyone else has said that the removal of rural offices is the first step. It's actually the Arbetsförmedlingen's own invention.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-790	Madam President, I would like When the bourgeois government carried out the privatisation of welfare, it was a 15-page bill that had no investigation at all. Over 130 offices are now being scrapped, with 4 500 employees being told, and this is not even mentioned in the budget. The savings you make, Emil Källström, is precisely on premises and staff. This usually has consequences such as the number of premises to be reduced and staff to be laid off. It will be the effects of that saving. If you reduce all labour market training and labour market policy efforts, what should the administrators do? At home in Gävleborg, for example, they cannot now assign the long-term unemployed to an education unless they have an activity support. They don't even have the money to give them activity support. It has enormous consequences for the unemployed and for small rural municipalities.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-792	Madam President, I would like This is where Ulla Andersson's true colors shine through. Ulla Andersson is not primarily upset about the offices. I'm upset about the offices. What Ulla Andersson is upset about is that we are doing something about Arbetsförmedlingen at all. Ulla Andersson would like to continue to have this huge government colossus that delivers far too bad results. It's not Center Party politics. Nor is it the policy that has been pursued shortly. We see that we need to reform the Public Employment Service fundamentally. Then it is absurd to save in those places where the rents are the cheapest and where the pay rate is often a little lower. Had the agency been sincere in its intentions to make some savings, the roast would have been turned around and saved in expensive city locations in larger cities. Why you don't do it doesn't make any sense to me. That is, above all, something that needs to be asked about the responsible minister and the responsible authority.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-796	Madam President, I would like I am not surprised that Emil Källström is the good cop of the January parties. I would still like to ask you something. The Centre Party has for a long time, most recently this autumn in its shadow budget, wanted to abolish the government's building subsidies to developers who build in a certain form of lease, namely those who build rental apartments. They're the only ones who get subsidies. The Center Party has referred, among other things, to the fact that the Institute for Economic Development has condemned the construction subsidies. On this we have been touchingly agreed. The Center Party sees risks that construction will be carried out at higher cost at the expense of taxpayers. Emil Källström himself has condemned this as a bad policy that leads to stagnation. But the building subsidies for rentals are now being maintained. The January agreement is almost fixed on the rent right. In addition to building subsidies to developers, developers will now also be allowed to take out market rents. At the same time, barriers to own-owned housing are increasing. I would like to put on record that Emil Källström now almost demolished the speaker's seat when he unloaded the upper part. I got off a little bit. ( EMILY Källström: I had no idea it was loose! ) The desperate applicant who buys a contract for a rental contract black will now be imprisoned in the search for a dwelling, and the obstacles to own-owned housing are increasing. I see that people in this way are being pushed into expensive newly produced rental apartments. There will be poverty traps for people. They are pushed into the forms of housing, although they really want to have their own property, but they cannot have that with the problems we have today in the housing market. My questions are: Why fixation on rent? Why does the Centre Party now want construction to be done at a higher cost at the expense of taxpayers as a result of subsidies?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-806	Madam President, I would like To sum up M-KD's criticism today, it was a move from two authorities in the judiciary, and it was a little on green tax exchange. Then we can go back to the January agreement – deeply known matter – with air tax and building subsidies. The simple conclusion I draw from this attempt at a storm of criticism is that we have managed quite well with the budget. It's pretty strong. There is quite a lot of good in this and quite little to criticize. Nevertheless, Forssmed takes up a number of very wise views on the future of housing policy. It is absolutely true that we need to do far more than the things that Jakob Forssmed exemplifies with. We still need a new housing policy in which we take the holistic approach. I believe, for example, that the tax agreement I reworded in my speech will need to have a great deal of emphasis precisely on housing policy in order to create more reasonable conditions, not least for the ownership of housing. Here we have a number of imbalances. That is one of the things that we must, in the broadest possible consensus, address in this parliamentary term. It is true that here too there are some things that we may not be overjoyed about but which are part of the common policy. Building subsidies are part of that. They will now be screwed, and a new model will be developed. Basically, we are critical of its existence as a whole. It's the same thing there: This is in the negative bowl. There is also another, much larger, positive bowl, where we have a lot of center victories. But I understand that it's not primarily them Jakob Forssmed criticizes me for, because there we usually agree.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-810	Madam President, I would like Emil Källström will have to accept that we are also discussing the January agreement itself. It should form the basis of the policy you are going to pursue during your term of office, so we will probably have to come back to that. I think there is a vagueness and a fuzzyness in which the various parties in the January agreement read out what they themselves want in the tax agreement. It's like a fortune cookie, where you all think it's your own stuff that should stand on the note that comes out of the fortune cookie once you bite it. The rest of us have no idea what it will contain, so that may be materialised a little further. Right now everyone can say that they themselves will affect the content of the cake. I note that Emil Källström may have been newly awakened this morning, but a major criticism point today has been cuts in care for the elderly. The initiatives that were in place and that have been decided by the House on 310 billion will not be implemented, but will instead be cut off. I find that deeply regrettable.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-813	Madam President, I would like When it comes to investing in care for the elderly, our answer is generally found in the general initiatives. We think it is important that we strengthen the municipal economy. These are municipal competences, and municipalities need to have the best possible conditions. The absolute bulk of M-KD's investments in this area remains. But there are a number of areas where we do not see that there are conditions for actually using these funds during this year, and then it is reasonable to transfer resources to other important things. This is, for example, how we finance the investments in LSS, where we see that the money can work and instead strengthen this part of the welfare. It's a giving and a taking. It is about ensuring that the money can work and that we use the money on funds that can actually be used, which did not really apply to all the investments that were part of the current budget. Madam President, I would like I still think we have a really good spring change budget.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-817	Madam President, I would like The right turn of the Social Democrats is encouraging, the representative of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise happily proclaims in the newspaper and calls the removal of the military tax for a great achievement. Now we have finally been heard, they continue. And perhaps that is the new task of Social Democracy: to fulfil the wish list of the economic elite. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise is not only pleased with the abolition of the military tax but also about the relaxation of labour law and the neo-liberal privatisation experiment with Arbetsförmedlingen with its huge reductions. Instead, the rest of us are concerned about a disintegrating society, and we believe that other than rich men should be the priorities. We live in a class society that affects the lives we are allowed to live. It affects our health, our growing up conditions, our school results and even how long we are allowed to live. Whether you are a winner or a loser depends on how much money you have, what your parents are or what sex you belong to. For example, if you are a man and belong to the 10 per cent of the society with the highest income, you are to be congratulated, because you live on average 9 years longer than men with the 10 per cent lowest income. For women, the difference is 7 years. Over the past few decades, the share of the richest percentage of total income has doubled. At the same time, the economic standards of chronically ill and disabled people have deteriorated and more and more people are forced to live in financial vulnerability. Even those with jobs and decent income have fallen behind the elite. Clam society lives and thrives and is allowed to do so. But it is the task of politics to change. We must have an economic policy in which people can feel confident and where climate investment is allowed to take a large place. It should be an economic policy in which one vulnerable group is not put against the other. We must build a society in which everyone is allowed to take their place and where the most needy and our common needs are the most priority. This government, in cooperation with the Centers and Liberals, will not do this. Instead, they will increase inequality and prioritise the residents of Danderyd over the residents of Bollnäs, tax cuts before welfare and rich men before the nurse. It's just to be sorry, because that's not what Sweden needs. We need a policy for all of us, not a policy for the richest. Let's take a look at the 73-point group's tax policy! The Center Party has the ambition to lower taxes most of the bourgeois parties, regardless of the consequences for welfare. Liberals have the skewedest distribution of income from all parties. It is an achievement and a reputation that they seem to be proud of. The social democrats' conclusion after they gained power in 2014 was that the card was short. That is what the Left Party heard when we negotiated with the government on the budget – this despite the fact that the country had then had eight years of crude bourgeois tax policy. The Social Democrats seem to have lost faith in the redistributive effect of the tax system. What the Green Party wants in tax policy is few who know, but they probably want some cooling off anyway. The redistribution of the tax system from high to low-income people has decreased over several decades. There has been a conscious policy of reducing progressivity. Sweden has reduced progressivity and redistribution most of the EU's 15 core countries. At the rate that income differentials have grown in recent decades, Sweden is planning to bypass the United States in the 2030s, and we have not been there since 1910. There is simply a great need for change. The Left Party wants Sweden to become once again the world's most equal country. Our principles of economic policy are that those with the highest income should contribute more in tax and that the richest should share and contribute according to ability. The principle of equal tax on equal income shall apply. Contributions to the richest – sorry, I mean tax deductions – should be removed. Welfare will be strengthened and expanded. Climate investments must be given a clear place, and climate change must be accelerated. The policy of the Left Party reaches rural and suburban areas. We do not close 132 of Arbetsförmedlingen's offices; they just do not. We also believe that the tax equalisation system must be changed. Accommodation in Dorotea or Årjäng should not have to pay much more in municipal taxes than residents in Danderyd or in Vellinge. Access to well-being, services and infrastructure must be strengthened in rural and suburban areas. So we build a community that stays together and where we take care of each other. Madam President, I would like Being able to feel freedom and being with your friends when you're young is important. Therefore, free public transport during summer holidays was such a success last summer. You could go with your friends on excursions and meet and socialize even if your parents' wallet didn't take the monthly card to the bus. This was one of many equality reforms The Left Party pushed through – reforms that have also been praised by the Mayflower. But this reform, like several other of our reforms, was removed by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. This applies, for example, to free swimming school for six-year-olds in preschool class. Watering and swimming skills should be able to get even if parents can't afford it, we think. But the Moderates did not think so, not the Christian Democrats, nor the 73-point gang, who have chosen not to reintroduce this. They also remove free sports holidays, Easter holidays and Christmas holidays. Apparently, children and young people are not more prioritised than that. However, contributions to those who can afford to pay a company for picking up the mail on vacation or watering the flowers for you — that's their priority. They also give priority to those who can afford to have their own security guard between the houses in Danderyd. They will even investigate whether you should not receive a grant to have someone at home moving around your furniture, if you are not able to redecorate yourself. And it may be that you live so large that you find it difficult to find each other in the wings or among all the rooms on the floor on Strandvägen. But why should you have a grant for that? Why is this more important than the six - year - olds who need to learn to swim and the young people who cannot afford to take the bus to the beach on summer vacation? Why is it that those who are already in the best position are the ones who should benefit? Why are you betraying the nation's children and young people? The government chooses to save on care for the elderly instead of investing, even though it needs to be employed about 50 000 more over the next four years. At the same time, over 20,000 of current employees are expected to retire. Older care suffers from chronic understaffing and poor working conditions, but the staff work and work. This is bad for the elderly, for quality, for staff and for equality. That's not how we get people to want to work in the care of the elderly, and that's what we need. This may come as a surprise to several parties, but it is possible to prioritise welfare, to raise wages in welfare professions, to improve working conditions and working environment, to remove new public management and to ensure that the taxes we pay go to what they are intended for in welfare and not to corporate owners in school, health care and care. It should not be more profitable to run a retirement home than a bank. The vast majority of people think that this is entirely reasonable. It is also possible to have health insurance that can be trusted, one that does not deny chronically ill compensation and that does not throw out burnt-out teachers and nurses after a certain number of predetermined days. It is possible to have a pension system that guarantees people pensions on which to live. It is about political will, to stop prioritising those who are best off. It is all of us, not least all women in the welfare professions, who should be given priority. Instead of pursuing a policy that strengthens the class society, let us build a society on equality, a Sweden for all and not just the richest and a policy for the whole country. Let us simply become the world's most equal country again!
i-3955fc806ba8c046-834	Madam President, I would like To begin with, I hope that Ulla Andersson did not really mean what she actually said. It was with a very elegant tone Ulla Andersson commented on people who are not able to refurnish themselves – she was referring to the RUT deduction. Now there are a lot of people who for various reasons are unable to redecorate themselves. Then you need help, and then there are many, not least older, who use the RUT deduction as a way to get that help for a financially reasonable money. By using the RUT deduction and the RUT deduction operators, we also do not get the same pressure on the municipal home service, which can then focus on the tasks that its other actors perform best themselves. You don't have to tell me about this. It is good that that group can use the RUT deduction. It is a wise part of economic policy. Then in the Center Party we got a scoop from the Left Party because we wanted to lower the tax regardless of the consequences and so much. That's not true. We have always, during the time I can review, presented entirely funded budgets. There have been reasonable tax cuts which, if implemented, have produced good results in terms of jobs and entrepreneurship and thus more resources for welfare. If anyone has a tax policy that does not care about the consequences, it is the Left Party! Let us be clear about what the Left Party's economic policy would mean: excessive taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, activities and jobs moving beyond the country's borders and thus less resources to allocate. Is there any limit, Ulla Andersson, to how much you can increase taxes on jobs and companies?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-839	Madam President, I would like It may be that you stand and falter if you get a little pressured. It seems Emil Källström does. The tax policy of the Left Party is that those with the highest income in society should contribute more and those with low and medium-sized incomes should have somewhat lower taxes. We do not think that the sick and the unemployed should pay more tax than those who are lucky enough to be healthy and have a job. I think most people think that is reasonable. We think that people with large capital assets and large luxury villas in Danderyd should pay more in taxes than those who have a small wooden house at home in Bomhus in Gävle. I also think that most people think that is reasonable – but apparently not Emil Källström. For Emil Källström, economic equality – the tick that holds society together – is placard politics. I think it says a lot about where the Center Party stands in economic policy. So to the question of RUT deduction. RUT deductions are mostly used in the wealthiest municipalities in the country, i.e. where the richest people live. It's no wonder, because it's usually those who have high incomes and thus can make big deductions. I think that people who have a large income should be able to pay for their private cleaning themselves. It is not reasonable for low-income people to be involved in financing their tax deductions. Why should you have a allowance for cleaning at home? Instead, let us expand the home service, make it easier to access and fix Fix-Malta so that you can get help to set up curtains and move boxes, desks or whatever it may be. Why should we have a system that favours the economic elite instead of the large population? I really wonder.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-843	Madam President, I would like It is clear that there was no answer to my question. At least Ulla Andersson did not present an answer. Clearly, there is no limit to how much tax can be increased on jobs and businesses. That was my question, but it was not answered. It is a fact that the Left Party always wants to increase the tax on value-creating activities, jobs and entrepreneurship, in a state of crisis, in a government position as an opposition. It leads to one thing: it leads to ruin. As a result, people and companies – those who can – move away from the country so that the common cake becomes smaller. When Ulla Andersson talks about economic equality, we must understand that what she means is that everyone should be equally poor. It's a very bad economic system.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-846	Madam President, I would like That, Emil Källström, is usually an argument that the right hand uses when they cannot defend why the richest should always be the most prioritised. Emil Källström may have missed that Sweden has the least redistributive tax system among the EU's 15 core countries. There has been a conscious tax policy that has reduced progressivity, and now Emil Källström intends to remove almost the last remnants of it. He may have missed that we have had the fastest growing income differentials for several decades, that if we continue at the same pace you will walk past the US already in the 20's or 30's and that the vast majority of Swedes think that economic equality should increase – and then you still think that the economic divides are smaller than they actually are. Yes, I believe there is strong support for increasing economic equality. I believe that this is necessary for society to stay together but also for us to be able to finance the common welfare. We need 23 billion a year in order to maintain today's quality in welfare. How will Emil Källström finance it? By magic?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-849	Madam President, I would like The lack of direction in the January parties' agreement is clear. The fact that the common objectives simply do not exist makes it more difficult to move towards the objectives of the agreement. The actual ride is likely to follow. Strong turn to the right! No, it's left! It's left! Yet he slipped there, yet she slipped there. The risk of ditching becomes apparent. Where the Alliance's signature was a joint analysis of social problems and jointly devised reforms to meet them, the proposals of the January parties are products marked by political pandering, a kind of horse-trading on speed where the parties will have to implement reforms they do not believe in. The quivering makes no one want to take responsibility. There was someone else who wanted this particular reform, not us. We have heard it a number of times today. What the government is doing is completely insane, says someone whose party has been involved in negotiating the proposal. And even those who pushed through the most radical reforms do not want to stand for them when they face reality. There are, of course, some good ones, but we are now also beginning to see the consequences of the 73-point programme being developed on the basis of party pamphlets rather than in reality's problems. Symbol politics reaps triumphs when everyone should have their own, as free entrance to some state museums in Stockholm. Badly functioning authorities are being reinstated. Inefficient measures reflect the light of day. Expensive employers' contribution reforms that have been judged ineffective and do not respond at all to the problems of the labour market are being introduced. The fixation at the rental right gives us construction subsidies and market rents in a nice association, when the problem is that more and more people want to own their home but fewer and fewer people can. The older ones are supposed to pick up a large part of the bill. Madam President, I would like We understood that the ageing reforms were low-priority when they shone with their almost total absence in both the 73-point programme and the declaration of government. The Ministry of the Elderly was abolished in the new government. That was bad enough. Anyone who heard Stefan Löfven talk about his wanting to make the election a referendum on welfare might not have imagined that the Social Democrats would have the elderly pay when the budgetary power would be secured, but that is what is happening now. The emphasis on social content in care for the elderly in order to counter loneliness and on community values in shelters is removed – it is abolished. In the case of half a billion in performance-based funds to shorten waiting for a retirement home, the actual performance requirement is removed. And when it comes to shelters, the money is narrowed in. Does the government not see the problem of retirement homes and of loneliness and its health consequences, which according to research-based estimates cause costs in the form of increased care and care interventions of over SEK 12 billion per year? There will be more depression, more dementia, more cardiovascular diseases, such as stroke and heart attack, more malnutrition and more pain. When the Riksdag has decided on small steps to break this loneliness, the January parties are tearing them up – they are saving in. It's a little winter and cold over it when it should be ours. When the moderate and Christian-democratic budget saw the problem of a lack of continuity of staff in home care, which affects both the elderly and the staff, the January parties saw an opportunity for saving. Now the effort to develop methods, disseminate good examples and train schedulers that could increase the opportunities for elderly and care professionals to build relationships is being dropped and deleted. This could be the case instead of insecurity and poor quality when the 24th person appears in the home service within two weeks. The initiative could also help to reduce some of the bad schedules that care workers often experience. This was deleted. Suggestions existed. Of course, they could have been more comprehensive, but they were still included in the budget. Now they're ironed out with a pencil line. In fact, however, this budget debate should have a little more focus on what is not changed in the spring proposal and amending budget, because much of the moderate and Christian-democratic budget that won the approval of Parliament is fixed. Materials and tools are available to renovate community building. In our budget we saw the sick waiting in growing care queues. We provided historically large resources to health care, about 5 billion this year, which then grows further. Equally important is the question of how it is done. It's a doubled and improved queue billions. It is a strategy for equal care with standardised care processes for five people's diseases. It is an enhanced primary care to stop the carousel that many, especially elderly and multi-sickness, experience – with fixed medical contact and multi-professional teams. We saw the person who is the victim of crime and who gets his freedom cut around. It is a strong effort on the police, including better working conditions, to ensure that the perpetrators of crime are at great risk of being caught. It is a central crime prevention measure. Our budget adds more resources to the whole legal chain: 12 billion over three years. Security shouldn't be a shortage. We saw all those who do not get a chance at a working community and who must not prove their worth. We increased the driving forces for work through job tax deductions, more training places and increased wage subsidy ceilings. In our budget, we increased teaching time and invested in teachers in vulnerable areas. We are expanding the RUT, which is important for jobs for foreign born. We increase social orientation and language opportunities for better integration. We saw those employers in the business and public sectors who do not get the right skills and how it threatens our prosperity. Higher education is being expanded. Generation shifts in companies are facilitated. The cut-off point for government taxes was raised, so that it pays better to educate or work extra. Our budget removes the special payroll tax that employers pay for older workers, so that experienced staff can work a little longer. Teachers, engineers and midwives can remain on the labour market for a few extra years when employers have a little more opportunity to give them better conditions. We saw those who need Sweden's voice in the world. Now our defence is greatly strengthened in a troubled time to protect democracy and the values we hold dear. Sweden can now do more in the international climate work. Sweden will also, through high and effective aid, step up efforts against poverty and oppression. It takes even more when others withdraw, governed by narrow nationalism. We want a Sweden where everyone can fit and be seen. We increased the resources by 50 percent to reduce children's groups in preschool in our quest for staff to have time to see each child. We began work to restore the LSS, so that those who cannot breathe or eat themselves will regain the right to assistance for these basic needs. Now we see that the legislation proposed is not up to date and is not enough. There must be further changes here. It must be implemented all the way. We all saw in the non-profit Sweden that makes invaluable contributions to others. Now the tax reduction is being reintroduced for gifts, which allow that heat to spread to more people. In our Sweden, society is infinitely larger than the public. We create it together, old and new Swedes, in communities such as families, associations, parishes and companies. When such communities are strengthened while the core mission of the public – care, school, care for the elderly and security – improves the trust that is so important, including for the national economy. We were prepared to take over the leadership of Sweden. This was not the case, but we stand ready every day to take over government power. We want more freedom for individuals and families. We want to see the realization grow stronger that companies are not enemies but the basis of our prosperity. We want solidarity that goes beyond cultural and national boundaries. We have the will not to leave anyone behind, but we do not want to hold anyone back.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-879	Madam President, I would like In fact, I have a rather simple and brief question for Jakob Forssmed. Then I thought I would take the opportunity to repeat the issue of subsidies that Elisabeth Svantesson did not want to answer. When I read the budget motion presented by the Christian Democrats in Parliament before the elections, I noticed that there were several fairly progressive environmental taxes. I found a lot of inspiration in it, I'll say. I thought: Here there may be opportunities for cooperation. However, in the budget that you submitted to Parliament in December, there was only one reduction in environmental taxes. So you made it cheaper to let out. My question is simple: what happened? What was the difference before and after the election?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-882	Madam President, I would like It's always fun to be able to inspire. We were very clear, when we presented our budget, that it could not contain everything. It was a very short preparation period, and there was little preparation resources in the Riksdag. We had to make impact in order to quickly get the most important thing in place. It is a question of providing resources to the municipalities. It's about the supply of resources for defense and for the police. These are areas where we saw very great needs and where we could quickly provide resources and reforms. Not least in the area of health care, we wanted to get different things in place. On the tax side, I have always been open to returning not least to environmental taxes and finding instruments that work, which do not hit the countryside unreasonably hard, but which govern in a good and correct way. I see just like Karolina Skog that there are a number of exceptions. We talk very often about petrol and diesel taxes for the consumer, but we also see that there are exceptions to the industry, for example, which I am prepared to look at and also remove in order to obtain a clearer and better collection of the CO2 tax, which we know is an effective instrument. But I think you have to do it wisely. I am a little worried about the tax policy that you will pursue when you may allow reduced or abolished military tax for the 300 000 with the highest salaries in Sweden to be paid by increased environmental taxes for people in rural areas. I think that is a tax policy that will not work very well.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-887	Madam President, I would like That was a very good message: that there are many of us who see problems with the environmentally harmful subsidies. It was a completely opposite message I received from Elisabeth Svantesson. If we can have broad support for the green tax exchange that we are going to carry out this term of office, that is obviously very good. I can also reassure and give a clear statement that the defence tax will not be included in the green tax exchange. That is a statement with which the Minister for Finance has been very clear. Instead, we will find tax cuts that benefit the whole country and meet many people while reducing environmental taxes. Removing the exceptions that exist is a good start. As Jakob Forssmed says, there are a number of exceptions for the industry that there is reason to remove. I note that using environmental taxes as an election frenzy and not implementing it after the elections is particularly interesting. It says a lot about what the Christian Democrats think the people want. However, it is very close to what I think people want – politics that make it more expensive to release!
i-3955fc806ba8c046-890	Madam President, I would like I think that few who study our election movement in the near future would see that we used increased environmental taxes as some kind of whale freckle. That wasn't our main focus. But I'd be happy to say we want to see a green tax shift. We have been clear about this for a long time, and I share Karolina Skog's view that there is more to do here. However, it is good news that it is not intended to allow tax relief for the most highly paid people to be paid by people in rural areas. I hope it lasts all the way. I think it's full when I see it, but it's a good news we're getting here. Then I would like to take this opportunity to say to Karolina Skog that I think one thing in the 73 point programme is incredibly good, and that is improvements for cycling commuting. I don't know who to thank for this, but I am prepared to thank Karolina Skog.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-893	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs structural reforms to nurture the wealth-creating forces. For example, it is about integration, the structure of the tax system, the regulatory framework in the labour market, how we turn to a climate-smart society in full, how we build on the knowledge school, how we guarantee both quality and diversity in welfare and, for that matter, how we restore the rule of law to trust. This is reasonably best done with the most stable government base with a focus on solving societal problems, question by question. It is a new political reality in Sweden. It is a reality where the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Entrepreneurs see great opportunities for Sweden as an industrial nation, while not least LO and the Left Party are high red in the face of anger. You'd think the cylinder's about to go. For the Liberals, the January agreement means that we have budget cooperation with the government and cooperation around 73 specific challenges. Otherwise, we are in constructive opposition. The latter has already become clear here in the Riksdag, where we have gathered quite different majorities, for example, in terms of the perception of the certificate of order and the judiciary and its authorities. We Liberals are at the heart of this policy. These are 73 points which, in many ways, begin by taking a structural approach to social problems. However, that is not enough. More will have to happen for quite a long time because different governments for perhaps ten years have missed the chance to reform central institutions and Swedish society while the threats and opportunities of the outside world have changed rapidly. What is it about? It's about school, of course. It is about resources, work peace, quality and previous grades. We're preparing for a nationalization. It is about integration, where we are talking about measures now. We've been waiting a very long time. We have a serious integration debt. It is also about increased penalties and efforts against honour-related threats and violence. It is a question of language requirements for citizenship. We intend to upgrade Swedish citizenship. It's about the jobs. It is about reducing taxes on labour, better matching, more modern and more efficient ways of conveying work and lower thresholds into working life for those who are young and for those who have immigrated to Sweden. It's about labour law. Soon, hopefully, an investigation will be set up under our January cooperation agreement with the government. It is a question of modernising a rigid and outdated system for today's labour market. This is about housing policy. It is about market rents on new production, abolition of tax on deferred amounts in case of capital gains and further things that may be relevant. Location and quality should be assessed differently in the renting process. It is about tax policy. We're talking about a tax reform. We return from the turn of the year to the principle of half left. Do you remember Ingvar Carlsson, former Prime Minister of Sweden? We're going back to his tax levels and principles. Then it was correct to say, as a social democrat, half left. That's what you stood for. It is still the case, Ulla Andersson, that whoever earns ten times more also pays ten times as much in tax to the welfare. We are talking about social policy, and we are doing reforms in the LSS during the term of office. As I said, we protect both quality and diversity. We are making reforms for justice policy. We are tightening up a lot of penalties and we are ensuring that 10 000 new employees are added to the police. There will be consequential changes in all other authorities, not least in the area of penitentiary services. We're making efforts for the environment. Nature conservation and climate are at the centre. Our generation's challenge is to reduce our burden on the environment and climate and make sure that we are sustainable. Madam President, I would like This was a bit of a background. It is a new political landscape. The Liberals believe that it is important to highlight the issue of teaching assistants. The school is Sweden's future. Knowledge school requires a lot of action to get us through. Resources and adults are required in school, but it has been clear that there is a shortage of teachers in Sweden despite efforts at higher wages and order. In the absence of teachers to hire, we therefore introduce the possibility of teaching assistants so that the teachers can be teachers. We are happy to now invest heavily in honour violence and support for women's shelters. We must break down the structures that enable people to live an alienated life and that mean that children, young people and adults do not have access to their fundamental rights and therefore the freedom to shape and influence their lives – this in one of the world's most equal countries. Here we are now permanentising the national competence team against honour-related threats and violence that has so far been present at the county administrative board in Östergötland. They get a broader mission, they get a new platform and they also get a deeper mission to meet not least young people who are victims of honour violence and oppression. I am also pleased to see that we are now continuing to build on what we received from the Moderates and Christian Democrats budget that went through before Christmas. It further reinforces the situation within the LSS. Here we are talking about decency. Here we are talking about the most vulnerable, and I look forward to the legislative change that I hope will come already on 1 July that ensures that people get the right to probe and breath support. In addition, a completely new assistance investigation is announced. We lower taxes on the first job, and we lower taxes on the first employee so that more people will dare to hire young people and more will dare to take the step of hiring their first employee. We provide the necessary resources to the judiciary: 820 million more than what Parliament decided here before Christmas. We're raising climate taxes, because that's right and important. Madam President, I would like It's important to talk about the spring bill. Here we lay down the framework for what it should look like in addition to the January agreement and what framework we have. We think it is a good thing that it is a more bourgeois budget. The ceiling on expenditure falls as a percentage of potential GDP. General government expenditure is falling and the tax ratio is falling according to the spring bill. This is the forecast before we implement, as I see it, important tax reforms included in the January agreement. It is as I said, Madam President, in a previous change of line: we believe in dynamism. We believe that you can make Sweden even stronger by giving more people the chance to succeed. We'll have more companies, and more talent will be attracted here. It gives a more dynamic Sweden. That's how we can get increased tax revenue, and that's something I love. I want this for welfare and to even out differences. But it is not the case that tax levels and tax revenues stand exactly next to each other. It could be the opposite. It works with neither 0 % in tax nor 100 % in tax. Madam President, I would like All in all, this is a budget based on a January agreement that will last its term of office. It has important liberal entrances. In some other way, you cannot interpret the interest organisations, such as Företagarna and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, who think that the budget is exciting and are curious about where it should go. We focus on how we create prosperity. We're putting entrepreneurship in focus. Furthermore, we place the focus on personal responsibility, school and care for our most vulnerable citizens. This means that more people will have the chance to experience freedom in Sweden. More people will have the chance to realize their dreams.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-921	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Pehrson, for your desire for tax cuts! There is also a need for some people to see the benefits of reducing the tax. During the eight years of the Alliance, we really did it together. We reduced the tax on income by about 100 billion and on companies by about 30 billion. This led to increased employment, but that does not mean that every tax cut was effective – if we are to be a little self-critical. But we know that job tax deductions in particular led to increased employment. Then the question is what will happen in the future. Now the defense tax removal is on the table. It's praiseworthy. Johan Pehrson mentioned that many are curious. I am curious about what will happen to all other ordinary employees over the years. As I read the budget and the January agreement, I am currently seeing more tax increases than tax cuts. The budget that has arrived today is about thermal energy tax, chemical tax and other environmental taxes. We know that the tax on petrol and diesel will be increased. We know that the airline tax will remain. Annie Lööf and Jan Björklund have discussed in the media simply introducing a property tax again. We have heard discussions about increased capital taxes and the removal of interest rebates. All of this, however, drives up the tax burden. My simple question to Johan Pehrson is this: will ordinary wage earners get further reduced tax this term of office?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-926	Madam President, I would like I'd love to. But I want to be careful that we liberals give priority to the most harmful taxes first. We believe that the path to prosperity is based on increasing productivity and increasing the proportion of people who want to train and stay in Sweden. When Spotify explains that they are considering moving from Sweden, it is not only about the availability of housing in Stockholm, but also about the taxation of talent. We must ensure that the world's highest marginal taxes actually change and that the breakpoint moves up. It's an important message. I am pleased that Elisabeth Svantesson has a great interest in our future taxes. I hope that the Moderates will participate in the work on tax reform. It should be sustainable, and we need a common understanding of how we secure broad tax bases in the long term. It is about reviewing the entire VAT system, where there are major gaps where VAT is not charged. It is a question of considering whether today's property fee is entirely appropriate. There is no need to consider whether each reform should involve a higher tax charge. It may be the same but with a more fair withdrawal. You can think about that. Of course, it is also about the conditions for entrepreneurship. I do not think we should change the tax level of the 3:12 rules, but you can make changes within the 3:12 rules. I will fight to ensure that we continue to reduce taxes. The expenditure ceilings are set so that prosperity gains for citizens will be achieved through continued tax cuts. But I wish the Moderates would be involved in the work of tax reform. It would be valuable to all of us.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-931	Madam President, I would like I understand that Johan Pehrson wishes that. I can send back that it is good if the four parties in the agreement first decide what to do. What are the problems to be solved? What direction do you want? If you want to include a party that actually wants to lower the tax on ordinary employees, it is of course good to have the Moderates to push forward on this issue. At the moment, few parties seem to be pushing this issue. I fully share the view that the defense tax is harmful. It is a good thing that it is removed, but we will have to reduce the tax on ordinary income earners. I hear Johan Pehrson says: Why not? Maybe. But we won't be told if that's going to happen. We know, unfortunately, that there are families where it does not pay to go to work. Eso came up with a report. I have eight seconds of speaking time left! It doesn't pay everyone to go to work. A premium ceiling is needed, and we shall continue to reduce the tax on low incomes as well. I hope the four parties want to see it.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-937	Madam President, I would like I welcome this answer. I share the view that these traps that people are stuck in where it does not pay to work are one of the biggest problems of the integration challenge. The debt we are in, that there are a lot of people who are currently in different project employments paid by all sorts of authorities and municipalities where they sew pillows instead of working in the public or private sector, or have entry-level jobs, is a major problem. It must be attacked. For this, both taxes and premium ceilings can be used. Of course it has to pay off to work. It is the fundamental essence of creating prosperity in a society. That is quite correct.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-939	Madam President, I would like Working has always paid off. If we are to have a subsidy ceiling, it should be for those who have absolutely the highest income in society. Liberals usually claim to be feminists, but they seem to have completely missed out on designing an economic policy for it. When you look at how Liberals distribute their reforms, it is clear that men are the great winners. It will be twice as much for men as for women in tax cuts, and it will be as much for the 10% richest as the rest of the population gets together. That is the economic policy on which the Liberals were elected. Liberals' distribution policy is widely known as unfair. It benefits high-income people and men. It seems that the Liberals have not realised that men own almost twice as much as women, that men's wages are significantly higher than women's, that women's median income is SEK 6 200 less per month than men's, that women's share of men's pensions is not even 70 percent and that over a lifetime a woman earns about 3 1⁄2 million less than a man. As I read through the 73-point programme, I hardly see anything that changes this, but rather a policy that reinforces inequalities between women and men. Is it because the Liberals have had such a big impact on those points, Johan Pehrson, that the inequalities between women and men will be strengthened?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-943	Madam President, I would like We Liberals are driven by an idea of freedom. We are obsessed with the possibility of giving people good opportunities to equalize life chances, but we are less obsessed that there may be different outcomes of people's hard work, efforts and life choices. I share Ulla Andersson's view that it is a major problem with the spread of income and income differences in Sweden. The latest report and analysis by the Council of Finance Policy can be found in the Spring Bill. It is about the fact that the income from capital has pulled away immensely during the years that Ulla Andersson's party acted as a support party for the government. We know that there are more elderly people as a proportion of the population. It increases the differences because people have less in retirement than they have in income. We know that the proportion of single households has increased. We know that transfers have not increased at the same rate as wages. We know that the composition of employment has changed. The latter is a huge challenge. How should we ensure that we keep – if I put it that way – middle class jobs in Sweden? It's a huge challenge. But when the Left Party has attacked this for four years, before the January agreement came into force after the election, this has become worse, unless the income differentials have broken record because they have pulled away during Ulla Andersson's time. I think nothing is more important than securing resources in welfare. It is through a functioning care of the elderly, a functioning childcare facility, a functioning healthcare system, a functioning school and free-of-charge universities that we create equality and the conditions for people to carry out their life dreams. It is also by having an integration policy that does not duck for the oppression that women are subjected to in Sweden today. That's the way we want to go.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-948	Madam President, I would like The freedom the Liberals seem obsessed with seems to be at the cost of someone else's freedom. That's not quite reasonable. Those whose freedom the Liberals seem to cherish most are the great high-income earners, that is, those who serve as Johan Pehrson or more. These are the priorities of 6 billion in tax cuts to a group where 74% are men, and they are at the cost of, for example, a lack of investment in care for the elderly or even cuts and a health insurance that cannot even be trusted anymore, despite the fact that most people who are on sick leave are women because they wear themselves out in their work. What Johan Pehrson is doing is hitting welfare and increasing gender inequality, and I regret that. I do not call it freedom; I call it the freedom of women.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-951	Madam President, I would like I had a change of line about dynamics and undynamics with the Swedish Democrats before, but I have to repeat it when we pull left on the political field. I can't believe it. When taxes were lowered by Social Democratic governments, mainly under Göran Persson's leadership, tax revenues and resources increased to welfare. When the Alliance did the same, we lowered taxes, and resources increased to welfare. Then you have to understand that the same thing can happen again. It is absolutely crucial that we manage to keep all those who are well educated and get new companies to invest in Sweden. Then they pay more money in taxes so that we can pay all the people, for example in my home country Örebro, who work in home care and make the welfare go around. We have to pay them, and we do so with higher tax revenues. This can never be done with Ulla Andersson's high tax levels.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-954	Madam President, I would like Involuntary loneliness is a major social problem that we talk about too little, both in this House and in the public debate. Many have no one to confide in or share the joy and sorrow of life. We know that loneliness means suffering for the individual but also leads to physical ill-health. In fact, involuntary loneliness is as much a risk factor as smoking to die prematurely. We even know that the body's vessels physically contract as a sort of protest against the conflict in not being able to be human in full, and that leads to cardiovascular disease. Calculations that I have made, based on research, indicate that involuntary solitude only in the form of increased healthcare and care costs among the elderly costs Sweden about 12 billion per year. I, who have tried with some frenzy to highlight the problem, was pleased when representatives of the Liberals, including the party leader, wrote this summer about this – that the feeling of loneliness leads to physical consequences, that lonely people more often seek medical care, that older people experience more physical pain and malnutrition and that one should not have to die alone. The Liberals also proposed a great deal of reforms to counter the loneliness of the elderly. After the summer, the elections came, and after the elections, the Liberals negotiated a 73-point programme that they had to adopt was intended to meet the urgent needs of society. But the commitment of Liberals in the summer to the issue of older people's loneliness did not reveal a trace. Among 73 points, the problem was not mentioned at all. Johan Pehrson talks about more people experiencing freedom, but those who are involuntarily alone and feel isolated in their accommodation against their will do not experience that freedom. What really happened? Were the others totally opposed to doing anything about this, even entering it, or what happened?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-961	Madam President, I would like No one's against it. Many see this serious social problem. As Jakob Forssmed pointed out in his main speech, this leads to many consequences. It leads to depression and, at worst, people choose to end their lives, so of course it is an enormous suffering. We must ask ourselves what we have done with our society when many experience themselves alone. What happened to the common arenas? What happened to the squares? What happened to the sports clubs? We need to ask ourselves what more we can do to support all the environments where people experience community. It could be people who have been alone for a whole life. This may be the case for people who become lonely later in life because their partner dies and you become isolated. It's a huge problem. I can only say that we Liberals are involved. Whether we rule in the Stockholm region or in Stockholm municipality or what we do in Västra Götaland, for example, this is an issue that is present. It is, of course, mainly a matter for municipal activities if we are talking about older people. But loneliness can affect everyone. It is about fighting unemployment and including people instead of sitting at home staring at the wall and receiving a passive contribution. It is important not least for young people. I do not want to make myself a spokesperson for the participants in the January agreement, but I can assure you that nobody here takes the issue of loneliness lightly.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-966	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers! It is good to hear this commitment. We need to ask ourselves the questions about the squares and things like that. The January agreement is one thing, but in the budget you are removing 200 million that would go to more community among the elderly, to increased social content in care for the elderly and to stimulate more shelters with community hosts, which we have seen as a driving force for construction companies and others. If they can offer these values, there will be more shelters. You wrote yourself this summer that the focus should be on housing forms that provide opportunities for community, social content and security. This was decided by the Riksdag, but n i removed it. You took away 200 million. You can ask questions about the squares, but there were 200 million in the budget, and you removed them. I find it sad and sad that it is not even mentioned, that it is not a priority and that there are reductions in the care of the elderly and in this particular area that are Community promotion measures – more housing places and more opportunities for the elderly to break loneliness.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-971	Madam President, I would like It's a strong commitment here. However, I must inform you that this is project money. Jakob Forssmed himself recently explained how difficult it was to get to this budget with the Parliament's limited investigative resources and how difficult it was to describe how all these projects would be used. It is project money that has now been allocated. I can testify that I've been fighting for projects after projects, and that money's still there. That will be 800 million more in this budget than it was in last year. You had additional projects allocated, but when projects cannot be implemented this year, we intend to come back. We definitely came back when we confirmed 5 million straight off to welfare. There will have to be additional contributions throughout the term of office. But money for projects that can't be useful and that can't be implemented right now, they shouldn't be on the shelf waiting. They're going into other business.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-974	Madam President, I would like It is 20 years since the Riksdag adopted Sweden's environmental objectives. Limited climate impact, clean air, non-toxic environment – these are goals worth fighting for. But the parliament that was wise enough to set the targets has not been able to take action enough to achieve them. To achieve environmental objectives, political courage and strength are now required. Madam President, I would like Taxing emissions works. Since the introduction of the first environmental taxes in the 1970s, health-hazardous emissions have fallen sharply. Now we have to speed up. Everyone knows that general taxation is the most effective way of reducing emissions, but yet we still have a wide range of exemptions and subsidies for emissions. We need to clean up the subsidies. We must stop supporting outdated technology and destructive habits. It's time to stop curling the emitters. The parties behind the January agreement have started the work together in an excellent way by removing two environmentally harmful subsidies this year, the reduction in environmental taxes on cogeneration and the mining industry is ending. The airline tax will remain. During the term of office, a green tax exchange of 15 billion will be carried out. It will give us the opportunity to put out more fossil subsidies. Madam President, I would like Let me say a few words about what it takes to achieve Parliament's environmental objectives. This is called for because a fairly large proportion of this House is not clear. The most basic thing is that information is needed on changes in the environment. Sweden's environmental monitoring is the scientific basis for all environmental policies, but it did not even escape the environmental slaughter that Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats pushed through in this House. Sometimes I meet the argument: Don't argue about the environment; it's so important. Can't you just get along? This type of argument leads the idea wrong and creates fog curtains over the very large conflicts that actually exist in the environmental field. The environmental slaughter by the conservative parties is a sad reminder that there really is no consensus in environmental policy. In their budget, M and KD reduced climate investments in Sweden by approximately SEK 840 million. the halved appropriations for the protection and management of a valuable nature; They cut down unimaginable 40 percent on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's overall activities for nature, environment and climate. During the spring, authorities have had to adapt their activities to the new budget. Staff have been made redundant, and protection and investment in valuable nature have stopped. Environmental monitoring and inspections have been reduced to a minimum. Entrepreneurs who had planned investments with the support of the Climate Centre had their plans overturned. Houseowners who wanted to do their part by putting solar cells on their roof ended up in a long queue, and landowners with species - rich lands suddenly could not receive compensation. Conservative parties often try to show that the only thing that separates us is how we choose to meet the challenge of climate change and the ongoing loss of species. That is absolutely not true. They slaughtered the environmental budget to finance tax cuts. Environmental authorities are both suspected and dismantled. It is a pattern that we can recognize from other countries that is affected by the neoconservative wave. It's politics. Madam President, I would like Today, however, is a day of joy, because now we are making sure that the historic slaughter of the environmental budget by the Moderates and Christian Democrats is historically short. We save the Climatian life and ensure that the work on eutrophication of the Baltic Sea is strengthened. Landowners with species-rich areas can now receive their compensation. With our amending budget, we are recreating an environmental policy worthy of the name. We have the sleeves rolled up, although it will take time to rebuild what has been destroyed. However, one step forward is to ensure that the Conservative bloc never again gets a chance to slaughter Sweden's environmental policy.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-986	Madam President, I would like Let me say that when we fail to achieve results, that is to say, we have had four years in which to reduce emissions, we must use words such as slaughter, even though our climate and environmental budget was the second highest that has ever passed the Swedish Parliament. But I leave for now and focus on the future of welfare. We know that there is a great need for staff and resources for welfare. The most important challenge is probably the staff. Therefore, more than I was probably surprised that the government and the cooperation parties are going to spend over SEK 1 billion on a new form of free year. This has been tested in the past and the effects have been measured. It was mainly women in the public sector who were on leave. They were no less on sick leave. On the other hand, they retired earlier and had a worse wage development. The Green Party, together with the other parties, now wants to promote a measure that reduces financial resources for the public sector while at the same time allowing municipalities less and less access to trained staff. It is about resources but also about justice. My question to Karolina Skog is: Why should people set the clock and go to work and work hard for others for a year to be more or less free?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-991	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that one of the major challenges we have in Sweden in the future is to supply the well-being and also to supply the business community with skills. An important part of that is that people need to be able to work longer, and to be able to do it people have to keep. I am convinced that one way to get people to hold is to give them the opportunity to influence their situation, make new choices during working life, rethink and reload. The year of development is about that very thing, to increase people's freedom and the opportunity to make new choices during life, to reload and perhaps to try to start a business, which many used the free year for. An investigation has looked at a revised version called the development year. In this House we often talk about lifelong learning and new opportunities, and the year of development is about just that, to get people to stay longer so that they can work until retirement and preferably after retirement so that they can contribute to welfare and business.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-995	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that more people have to change and have the opportunity to do so. That is why a conversion package is needed. It is about being able to read higher up in the years at universities or take shorter courses and that universities need to have a transition assignment. I do not think there is any difference of opinion about this in any of the eight parties in Parliament. What there is, however, a clear difference of opinion is who should pay for the Green Party's free year. It's about a few of the 5 million going to work every day getting paid for a year, and who's going to pay? Well, everyone else who sets the clock every day and goes to work and rips. In addition, the pensioner in Laxå or Bandhagen may be involved in paying for this year. I believe in increased opportunities for the individual. Karolina Skog can read about the Moderate Conversion Package. But it should not be paid by everyone else in the way that the Green Party presents.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-998	Madam President, I would like We are taking a wide range of measures to strengthen people throughout our lives. We are also taking a wide range of measures that encourage companies to invest in their staff, train it and help it find new ways. Many of these measures we are funding jointly with tax money, which seems to be uncontroversial. The difference in doing so to the individual, that the individual gets full freedom and paid on time, is actually not very great. I cannot see the huge difference in principle in the fact that we are jointly funding education in this way. If we agree that people need to educate themselves more than once in their lives and need the opportunity to choose new paths, I believe in a variety of measures.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1001	Madam President, I would like I have two different questions. During the last term of office, the Left Party received a targeted state grant of 2 billion for elderly care. It chose M, KD and SD not to extend. The government, with the Green Party in it, has not extended it either. According to the newspaper, this means that two out of three municipalities intend to lay off staff in the care of the elderly. That is certainly not what is needed, but there is a need for substantial reinforcements of resources.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1003	My second question is about health insurance. A lot of people work until they get sick. The resources are too small, and you have far too little power and influence, so you get burned out. Many of them work in the care of the elderly. Others have severe physical diseases but are denied compensation. Still others are chronically ill with permanently impaired work capacity but are denied compensation. Worst of all, LO members are affected – especially women LO members with low pay. On the contrary, many who are denied compensation are forced to turn to family, friends or social services, even to charitable organizations and to the church. Despite the abolition of the headstock, more and more sick people have lost their compensation because the so-called time limits remain – those imposed by the bourgeoisie and which this government has chosen to retain. Last year 24 000 people were insured. The rigid rules, which are not in any way individually adapted but determine in advance how long a sick person should be allowed to be ill, have major consequences. We no longer have health insurance that can be trusted. I wonder: what does the Green Party intend to do about it? Or do you think this works well?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1006	Madam President, I would like It has been repeated several times here that elderly care, as well as the more medical care, will need resource reinforcements in the future. We fully share that picture, and I also understand that it is reflected well in the January agreement. On behalf of the Green Party, we want to increase resources through, above all, general state subsidies to regions and municipalities, so that you can decide locally what you want to spend the money for. That should continue to be the main focus. There is a clear ambition in the January agreement that we shall of course live up to. We also have to work a lot to continue to reduce sick leave. It's mostly about measures that make people hold and don't get sick. Then we see that there are shortcomings in the insurance system. This time we chose to focus on the shortcomings that existed in the LSS, because there were the acute deficiencies that we needed to correct. This has been the focus of the work so far. Unfortunately, we are very limited because M and KD chose to reduce taxes enormously, and these effects are still there. This affects the scope for action in our amending budget. Unfortunately, it will continue to restrict us in the future. When taxes are reduced, the money disappears from the state budget. But I share the Left Party image. The answer to the question whether I am satisfied is: No, we will focus on this together with the work. However, I would also like to make it clear that when M and KD remove 17 billion from the state budget, that means limiting what we will be able to do during this term of office.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1011	Madam President, I would like If you think that the 17 billion is such a big problem, you can choose to put them back from the end of the year. This gives you quite a lot of money to spend on care for the elderly. But this government will not. According to LO, it will take 23 billion a year, already this year, to maintain today's quality in welfare. Instead, you choose to withdraw state subsidies to care for the elderly and not even carry out the initiative that the Christian Democrats got through. You're cutting down even more. There are consequences. Two out of three municipalities intend to lay off staff this year. The time limits in health insurance have been in place throughout the last term of office. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have had no interest in changing them. As a result, 24 000 people, most women and many of them burned out were insured last year. You simply don't have health insurance that you can trust anymore. This is an enormous shortcoming, especially in a model such as the one we have chosen, the Swedish model, where social security is a tickle in the construction of society. But we don't have health insurance that can be trusted.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1014	Madam President, I would like There have been a number of major reviews of insurance systems in Sweden. The goal is always that people should be in the right place and get the support they need right then. I would say that too little focus has been on prevention. Now we are creating a working life where people are holding, and I think we need to have a special focus on why women are being worn out in the private and public sectors and find much of the answers for the future in that work. But of course it is also an ambition that we should have insurance systems to trust. Now we have chosen to fix the reefs in LSS, because we thought that right now was the most important thing, and I stand for that priority.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1017	Madam President, I would like There was a lot to be done in Karolina Skog's speech. I am partly thinking of conservatism, neoconservatism and so on. I myself represent a Christian Democrat party. There is an excellent book called The Common Best, published by the think tank Civitas, which I can recommend both to Karolina Skog and to many others who think about these questions. There you can get a little more inspiration about things like community, solidarity, stewardship and subsidiarity – good principles for building a good society. I was not going to ask you a question about this, but rather a question of a priority. In the moderate and Christian Democratic budget there were a few different initiatives that are now being deleted. There was an effort to reintroduce a leisure allowance, so that children in households that are financially vulnerable could receive fees for leisure activities – cultural school, football training and such – paid without competing with the household economy. Today, for many, it is a problem that money is not enough and that things that could benefit active leisure time are being ironed out. This reform is now not being removed and implemented by the government. There were also proposals for increased parental support – that all municipalities should offer compulsory parental support. This has proved to be an important factor in strengthening parents so that they can contribute to more, and it also contributes to more mental health, the evaluations show. You chose to support these proposals and instead invest in something that costs about the same amount, namely the reinstated free entrance at some state museums in Stockholm. Does Karolina Skog think this is a reasonable priority?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1021	Madam President, I would like I have made my political journey from the municipal plane to the national plane. One thing I note when I come here is that many of our colleagues here in Parliament are itchy. You also want to be a municipal politician, and I understand that, because it is very fun to be a municipal politician. One can be very concrete and have concrete reforms implemented. One thing I did when I was a municipal politician was a parental education specifically aimed at newly arrived families. It was very appreciated. I thought it was a very good initiative that I made and which was part of my mission as a municipal politician. Now that I see the needs of welfare in the future and what we are going to do from here, my focus, as I said, is that it should above all be general state subsidies for regions and municipalities, so that you can make the investments that are needed locally. The difference between Malmö and Dorotea is very big. I do not think that we here are the best at identifying the exact solutions to be found. Some of the efforts made by the Christian Democrats in the budget are money which, now that it has been a few months, we see will not be spent. The projects do not seem appropriate, and we do not think it is a good thing that there is money on a row in a budget, but rather we return the money to something that can be concrete. Then you can always take part of the budget and compare with another. But I can see that the reform of making the entrance to state museums free of charge had a very good effect in the sense that new groups and more people go there, to the common cultural treasure. When we spend a lot of money tending to our common cultural treasure, I think it is a reasonable principle that it is also open to everyone. It's a bet that I believe in.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1027	Madam President, I would like We talk about the needs of welfare, and then we come down to the free entrance of state museums. Yes, it will also be a comparison. I note that the government itself wants to play municipal politicians, or whatever it was said from the speaker's chair, that it was, when you reintroduce the targeted contribution to the cultural school. Here we wanted to do one thing to keep the fees down and, above all, to give children from financially vulnerable homes an opportunity to have the entire fee paid so that it would not interfere with the household economy. It was a system that existed, and it would have been so easy to reintroduce. But if you don't want to, you can always say: Now it's been so long of the year that we can't reintroduce these things or make these investments anymore, but now we have to invest in other things. It has been quite a long time since the budget was decided. If this were to be done, to introduce more parental support and to invest more in vulnerable children rather than in free admissions to museums, it would of course have been possible to do so. It is a matter of priority.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1030	Madam President, I would like The fact that the budgetary efforts made by the Christian Democrats have not been used is because they do not seem to fit the activities out in municipalities and county councils – nothing else. The special funds available for the cultural school are linked to a government review and work with the cultural school, which is done in cooperation and according to agreements with the Swedish municipalities and county councils. It has been agreed in common that it is good to do this. Of course, when the state is active and demands more, it is reasonable to go in with money; there is a funding principle that we should also safeguard. So I do not think that the comparison is entirely consistent.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1033	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Left Party. The Left Party has, of course, been extremely critical of the wording on the introduction of free renting in new production contained in the January agreement, that is, the 73-point programme which was a prerequisite for the formation of the government. The same programme also states that the Left Party should be isolated and excluded from all political influence in Sweden. I was going to ask about the credibility of this. One condition for the government to introduce market rents – as defined by the Left Party – to take office was that the Left Party released it. It would be interesting to hear the Left Party develop how it thought there. When you hear people around Sweden question this hypocrisy, if I may put it that way, Madam President, it would be interesting to hear the motives of the Left Party to release this government, which wants to introduce market rents on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to isolate the Left Party from all forms of influence on the other.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1035	Madam President, I would like Interesting – when I was looking at the list, I saw that the Moderates and the Center Party would speak before me, and I thought I would have liked to take a line on them. So it became that after I spoke it was the Moderates and the Center Party that demanded a reply – fantastic! To your question. It is said that a particular party should not have influence. We are here, just on the same terms as all other parties, to influence Swedish politics. It is said that we as a party should not have any influence, and so it is we who are allowed to influence which government is to be formed in Sweden. It's almost a little comical. It is clear that we should influence Swedish politics. We did so during the last parliamentary term, and we will continue to do so. We have every intention of doing so. That is why I am here talking about market rents and the commons. But I'd like to put a counter-question to the Moderates. I've always wondered where the Moderates stand. Last time we stood here, the Moderates attacked the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Green Party, and that makes me and many others a little confused. Are you in favour of market and free renting or not? If you are in favour of it, why are you attacking a government that actually wants to introduce what you want? If you are not in favour, I think people would appreciate it if Mats Green could clarify where you really stand on that issue. I have been wondering that since the last time we had a debate here, when I saw how hard you went towards the government.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1038	Madam President, I would like The Left Party enables market rents in Sweden by releasing this government. It is this, Madam President, which is really the comical part of this debate. It would not have been possible otherwise, so sometimes it is a bit difficult to take the moral breast tones of the Left Party seriously. If you really wanted to say no to this, you would have said no to the government, and you did not. One should probably reflect on this, speaking of what is comical. As far as what the Moderates think about renting is concerned, we have said and have a decision that we want less regulated renting throughout the stock and that it should be carried out within the framework of block-crossing agreements. But I can admit that we had to withdraw some of our claims in the Civil Committee because the government went further than our claims. It was a very interesting discussion in the Civil Affairs Committee. But again – The Left Party actually releases market rents in Sweden by releasing this government. I would like the honourable Member to explain this inconsistent action. Is there any understanding that, for example, the Tenants' Association thinks this is very strange on the Left side?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1041	Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone who listens to this takes what Mats Green says seriously. The Left is the only party that has stood here every time we have had debate and consistently spoken against market rents. If we are also to talk about morality, the Left Party is the only party that said one thing during the election campaign and now stands here and continues to push those issues just as we promised. That this issue is raised with us can no one among the Swedish people who listen take seriously. Another thing that I have always wondered about moderate politics is why there is so much contempt for poor people, low-income people and weak and vulnerable groups. Why are you pursuing an economic policy that is constantly based on lifting those who are already at the top, at the expense of those who are at the bottom? Why do you have this contempt? Why do you want to abolish investment aid for the construction of rental rights while at the same time being in favour of subsidising the richest, who can afford it? Why do the Moderates have this hatred and contempt for poor, low-income, weak and vulnerable people? This is a question that I think the Moderates should think about. But perhaps the answer is that this is how capitalism's logic works. Capitalism sucks the must out of poor people; that's what it's built on. And it is this ideology that moderate politics is based on, so I understand that. But it's a terrible ideology. The policy that is being pursued, especially housing policy, is about rights, but you want to turn it into an object of investment. It should always be about how to maximize profits.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1045	Madam President, I would like Momodou Malcolm Jallow began his speech by educating us about the history of housing policy in Sweden a hundred years ago. I'll tell you another story. In 1917 the socialist revolution was carried out by the Bolshevik Vladimir Lenin, and we got a socialist society in our neighbourhood whose example of planning frights and which the Russian society and its citizens and former states that entered into still suffer from. Above all, this is reflected in the standard of housing in many Russian cities, in the complexes built during Soviet times with enslaved labour force and for money generated in a society in which capitalism had been abolished. You should be careful when you speak history, Momodou Malcolm Jallow, especially if you represent the Left Party. Now to my question. Momodou Malcolm Jallow, like the rest of us, wants to get housing started, but he does not mean that it is the logic of the market that will do this. The question is who if not private construction companies are going to build these homes. If this money is not to be borrowed on the free market, with whose money should housing be paid?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1048	Madam President, I would like It's strange that you stand here defending capitalism, Ola. Again: I was talking about Sweden. The story I was talking about was about Swedish housing policy history. You're welcome to contradict me about Swedish... ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: We usually use first and last names, not ) Excuse me, Madam President. What Ola was talking about was not about Swedish housing policy history. If Ola wants to tackle the issue, which is about Swedish housing policy history, I am prepared to take it. As regards housing policy in Sweden, the Left Party's position is clear: We believe that the state must take a greater role in the construction of housing. The state must take the funding. Having said that, this does not mean that private housing companies are not welcome. It is clear that it is a partnership and that the state must do so together with private housing companies. One thing we know has been a problem is that building costs a lot. That is why we say that the state must be able to come in and use taxpayers' money to facilitate construction so that you can build a little cheaper. It's important. As we heard, Olas's strategy is that the Center Party does not want to use taxpayers' money to finance the construction of rental apartments. But the Center Party has no problem at all in subsidising dwellings, villas and houses owned by wealthy, wealthy people. It's hypocrisy. It will therefore be very strange to hear Ola talk time and again about how we can finance, when you have no problem financing rich people's interest deductions, which cost 17 billion just last year. It is money that could be used to build cheap housing with reasonable rents.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1054	Madam President, I would like I thought it was important to draw these parallels, because crude capitalism and socialist society are in a way each other's counter-poles. They unite and meet when democracy is undermined and when people's freedom and rights are restricted. I, for my part, prefer a liberal market economy that can achieve housing construction and give people the opportunity to start a housing career by getting their first home. I would like to ask a question to Momodou Jallow, who, in his speech, mentioned the municipal housing companies, which he believes should not operate in accordance with the current regulatory framework. Momodou Malcolm Jallow claims to ignore EU state aid rules and allow them to compete with the private housing sector through public funds. What conclusions does Momodou Malcolm Jallow draw about Sweden's EU membership in this regard? Momodou Malcolm Jallow also said that there should be at least one housing company in each municipality. There are a number of Swedish municipalities that have between 5 000 and 10 000 inhabitants, and perhaps some that have even fewer. What conclusions does Momodou Malcolm Jallow draw about the municipal mergers that must take place in order to make it possible to run public utility housing companies in all these municipalities? I would also like to hear Momodou Malcolm Jallow's definition of a modern social housing policy. Does it also mean rights and opportunities for people to own their homes so that the thresholds into the owned housing market can be lowered?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1058	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of questions, but I'll start with the last one. You asked what that means, Ola Johansson. I agree that this means that every person living in this country should have the opportunity to have a good place to live. Everyone should have this regardless of how thick a wallet you have, how poor you are or whether you are a low-income or an unaccompanied refugee. You should have the opportunity to get a place to live. It's a constitutional right. For the Left Party, this means that we must have a general social housing policy that makes it possible for every person who is here to have a place to live. For this to happen, we cannot repeat the same thing that we did a hundred years ago, as I mentioned in my speech. The system proposed by the Center Party, together with the government today, is that property owners have the exclusive right to set rents. This has been tried, and it led to catastrophic situations for people. Homelessness increased greatly, people had nowhere to go but lived in tents and industrial premises and several were inherent. We have tried this and know what the consequence is. When we know what the consequence is and what history has taught us, it's just stupid to stand here and insist that we repeat the same mistakes. We know how it will be, and all the research shows that it will be bad. Even the property owners, who actually benefit from this, say that they do not like the solution. Yet the Center Party and the government continue to say that this should be done. It doesn't make sense.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1061	I would like to remind you that we use first and last names in the speaker's chair, not you or first names. I would also like to emphasise that during the last speech there was no request for a reservation, as I understood it.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1063	Madam President, I would like Bostaden is one of the most central and important parts of a well-functioning society. An adapted housing market contributes to more jobs and to people being able to move to where they want to live, live where they like to live and make their dreams come true. It is not only from the perspective of freedom of choice that the dwelling is important but also from the perspective of having a dwelling that you call your own, being able to close up and having your own place where you can do just as you wish. Today is not the case. The Swedish housing market has become a patchwork of faults and problems. For example, the waiting time for a tenancy is very long. In Stockholm, people on average need to stand in line for eight to ten years to get a chance to live. In Gothenburg it is between four and seven years. Measures are needed to increase the possibility of obtaining a tenancy right within a reasonable time. For young people, the difficulty of leaving home becomes. Over 260,000 young people aged 20 to 27 lived at home in 2017. Of these, 82 percent did so against their will. Increasingly tough amortisation requirements and higher bank demands prevent those with lower but rising income from receiving mortgages. At the same time as more and more flats are being produced, it has become increasingly difficult to demand them. We need measures to enable people to take out loans and buy a home on reasonable terms. The problems then continue through the life cycle of the housing market. The so-called migration taxes reduce the incentive to adapt the housing situation according to how life is shaped – from solitary living, to cohabiting, to family and then to adapted housing. In each step, large tax cases are often released. This is not least a problem for the elderly, who instead of selling the far too large dwelling and moving into a better adapted accommodation chooses to stay – often in isolation. We need a substantial housing policy reform to solve a lot of the problems I highlight. We Christian Democrats want to enable young people to leave home and create their own lives. We have proposals to increase mobility in the housing market, for one housing for every event in life. That is why we have proposed a subsidised housing saving for young people. More people will be encouraged to save for an accommodation. An effort by the young person to show that you can save should be an entrance to a starting loan from the state. A housing saving together with a start-up loan for young people may be the way to increase the possibility for young people to buy their first home. We want the cap on deferred capital gains tax to be removed if you buy a new dwelling. The payment of the interest on the deferral should also be possible to postpone the future of the purchase of a new dwelling. In this way, profits on sales are not forced up to taxation, which means that a large part of the lack of mobility caused by the taxes on removal can be eliminated. Credit restrictions may be the single largest inhibitory part of new construction today. People cannot buy the home they would like to buy or need, even if they have finances to cope with it. The Christian Democrats want it to be possible to take the step to the owned housing market. With inspiration from our own homes, we want people with regular income to be able to build homes with the help of start-up loans, housing savings and changed rules for land leaseholds. Municipalities today have great opportunities to take initiatives that create more housing. But the efforts of municipalities alone are not enough. The government must also take a number of steps, based on today's need for housing, for a large-scale investment in new residential areas characterised by its own home town. I want to see an active state policy that promotes the emergence of a number of new residential areas in places that can be linked to functioning infrastructure paths. New residential areas can be added by the government commissioning the county boards to identify new areas where completely new districts can be built. These areas can then be built mainly with housing that the residents themselves own in the form of small houses, terraced houses and more. Furthermore, potential home builders and home buyers should be given an opportunity to obtain a government-funded start-up loan corresponding to their top loan. This would mean that families who do not have an opportunity to save up for their own efforts can take the first step towards their own accommodation. State aid reduces the risk for the individual and increases the mobility of the market. The municipalities have housing responsibility and the planning monopoly. This means a responsibility for municipalities to draw up outline plans and detailed plans to ensure the creation of housing. I believe that there is reason to investigate a model for imposing fines against municipalities that do not meet their housing planning figures. We also believe that it should be possible to build housing in municipalities where the market value is not so high but where there is still a housing need that needs to be solved. In these areas, it is also by nature difficult to obtain bank financing for residential building because the market value is lower than the construction costs. We believe that it is important and urgent to make better use of state credit guarantees and loans to facilitate housing in rural areas. We also believe that more attention should be paid to the write-down of newly produced rental housing, which in many cases becomes too heavy a burden economically to bear for housing companies in sparsely populated areas. A gradual adjustment to the fair value should be the general rule rather than an immediate write-down. One can't do everything, but together we can create a lot. That is how we should think about housing policy as well. Together with regional planning and housing companies, municipalities and states have a shared responsibility and the opportunity to resolve the housing crisis that we are experiencing, which also creates deviants in the housing market that we do not want. I could conclude my speech with this. But that would be difficult, because there are a number of questions that I would like to ask the government that are not otherwise asked.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1083	The industry wants long-term rules of play and discussions across block borders. What is the government's action in this regard? It is extremely frustrating that this government cannot propose measures in any direction, although I would think that the measures it proposes are quite wrong. However, the answer to all these questions is usually large credit restrictions and investment aid. It is clearly a general solution to all the questions we ask. I do not believe that the citizens of Sweden accept this. There must be more measures that we can take together, more measures that we can actually take across block borders. I think we should take the outstretched hand that exists from the opposition and discuss this together. I commend the reservation of the Centre Party and the Christian Democrats 7.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1085	Madam President, I would like There are two things that are missing in the Swedish housing market: housing and the market. It is therefore very gratifying that four responsible parties for Sweden have agreed within the framework of the January agreement to take solid measures to improve the housing market in Sweden. It is about making trade in contracts more difficult, but perhaps most importantly about establishing a pricing mechanism in the rental market that will make our cities more dynamic and that more opportunities will be opened up to people living in our country. The conditions for jobs and growth will be improved. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning dynamic housing market is also a prerequisite for more people to be able to make a class trip. Housing segregation and overcrowding are widespread problems with major social consequences. Therefore, more rental apartments are needed in Sweden. But there is also a need for better choices. You must be able to choose between owning and renting your home, even in vulnerable areas. Therefore, a specific strategy is needed for the conversion of tenant-ownership rights into tenant-ownership apartments in rented areas in order to encourage people who want to own their home to remain in this particular area. Madam President, I would like A mix of different types of leases, such as rentals, flats and owner-occupied apartments, creates residential areas that enable the residents to choose the type of accommodation that suits them best. Therefore, the main principle should be that the share of owned dwellings should not be less than 30% in a residential area. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is also not desirable for a residential area to be made up of only owned dwellings. The government should take the necessary initiatives to develop a strategy for conversions in areas dominated by rentals. The government should also investigate the possibilities for municipalities to give their housing companies an opportunity to become developers for projects that involve the construction of new residential properties or owner-occupied apartments in vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like Finally, there is a great need for more housing adapted to older people. A wider and adapted supply of housing for older people would further increase people's choice and facilitate mobility in the housing market. Therefore, it would also be desirable for the government to take the initiative to investigate whether the construction of apartments for the elderly can be facilitated by defining them as specific forms of housing in the legislation. Having said that, I am in favour of reservation 6.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1090	Madam President, I would like I could ask many questions about all the proposals made by the Liberals in relation to housing policy, but which had to be abandoned now after the January agreement in committee. Instead, reference was made to specific opinions. However, I did not intend to dwell on it, but I have two other questions. There have now been discussions between the parties that entered into the January Agreement, i.e. the Social Democrats, the Environment Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson indicated that she really wanted a review of taxes, which would land in some form of property tax. It had the effect that the current Liberal party leader Jan Björklund went out and said that this was out of the question at all. Is the announcement that this is never the case for the Liberals? My second question is: will the Liberals stand up for the promise they have made both before and after the elections, namely that they want cross-border housing policy deliberations? I have full respect for the fact that Henrik Edin may not be well versed in all of this, but it would be interesting to have an account of the openings of the Liberals on these two issues.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1094	Madam President, I would like Mats Green himself has heard the leader of the Liberals speak on these issues, and I think that Mats Green can take Jan Björklund very seriously in what he says. Then, of course, I cannot stand here and tell you how the negotiations are going; unfortunately, I am not taking part in the talks myself. But it is of course very exciting to see what comes out of this. I also think it is important to emphasise that a major overall tax reform is exactly what Sweden needs. I assume that the Moderates will also be a constructive force in producing such a tax reform. As far as the cross-block discussions on the housing market are concerned, it is, of course, a good thing if we can reach the broadest possible agreement in this House. I think so, and I guess most people here think so. If nothing else, it would be good for Sweden. However, the talks need to be initiated by the government, so I suggest that the matter be addressed to the government.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1096	Madam President, I would like Yes, we will also ask the government the question. The problem is that we have a housing minister who only shows up for debate when we force him to do so through the Constitution. So I guess that's the way we're going. However, I still interpret Henrik Edin's statement as saying that the Liberals want cross-horizontal discussions on housing policy and that it is the Social Democrats and the Green Party that oppose it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1097	Madam President, I would like What I had to say here was, of course, that we want as broad a consensus as possible for our political proposals in this House. There are many good proposals in the January agreement, including short construction periods and the like. I look forward to taking that discussion further.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1098	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Sweden needs a sustainable housing policy – a housing policy that is sustainable not only over time but also for people, the environment and the economy. The biggest challenge of our time is climate change, and it is a fact that the construction industry today represents one fifth of Sweden's climate impact. In addition, we will only count the emissions that occur within the country's borders. This is the case despite the fact that today we have the knowledge to build with methods that emit considerably less than the methods we choose today. At the same time, the existing housing stock accounts for a very large part of these emissions, in the form of heating. Where, by what and how we build our houses will have a major impact on our environment in the future and for future generations. It is today that we are building what will work well even in a hundred years' time, and then what we are building today is good. It is only when it becomes sustainable for people, the environment and the economy. We need a sustainable housing policy in which environmental and climate impacts are reduced. Housing construction is currently record high, although we see a trend that unfortunately points to a decrease in housing construction in the future. The reduced level is still higher than the levels of construction have been at for a long time. In 2017, 51,500 new dwellings were built, compared to an average of 28,000 per year during the year of the Alliance in power. We can choose to keep hitting these numbers in each other's heads, or we take responsibility for how we want to maintain a high built-up pace – together. There are housing shortages in many parts of Sweden. In particular, there is a lack of housing for people with lower incomes. The housing shortage not only affects those who cannot get a home, but it actually slows down the development of society as a whole. The housing shortage is reduced by building more new dwellings, increasing mobility in the housing market and making more efficient use of the existing housing stock. That's where I think we're pretty much in agreement. It also needs to be made easier to rent out part of one's dwelling, and the financing of new housing needs to be ensured. The big question is how to implement this. During the previous term of office, the government introduced so-called investment aid for the construction of rental apartments with reasonable rents. This has resulted in about 20,000 new climate-smart rentals, and more will be. Investment aid can and must be developed, Madam President. In the January agreement, the Government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, agreed that investment support for the construction of rental rights should be concentrated, streamlined and directed towards rental rights throughout the country. I think that's good. After M's and KD's budget with the support of the Swedish Democrats went through just before Christmas, the opportunity to apply for investment support was strangled right off at the end of the year. I have full respect for the fact that we disagree politically on the question of whether investment aid should exist or not, but if you want to end such an investment programme, you need to do so in a long-term way. To interrupt so abruptly is nothing more than irresponsible action. Fortunately, however, it is not M, KD or SD that governs Sweden, but we are pleased to note that today's spring proposal deals with the high number of applications that have been in place since the end of the year and that have not been processed before that. This means that new housing, with the regulatory framework in place for investment support, will be managed. Not least, it is responsible to the companies that had made a calculation in order to build these homes. Now we will see what investment support looks like in the future. With regard to other things we want to see in the future, the Green Party would like to see a favourable housing saving, government loan guarantee for weak markets, an increased and modernised housing allowance and support for municipalities linked to a clear housing supply responsibility. Sweden continues to need a green and ambitious housing policy that will build more climate-smart housing for all in society. A policy is needed that steers towards a continuous high level of housing construction regardless of the economic situation or where in Sweden the need exists. Madam President, I would like I also think there is a need for a new overall objective for housing policy. What we from the Green Party proposed in the programmes we presented for the elections was for at least 450 000 new homes to be created in the period 2019-2025. What is important to emphasise here is that we need to find tools so that this also means building homes that people can afford to demand – or that people have the opportunity to demand what is being built – and not just what the market benefits most from. The need for housing for all, regardless of income, should be measured and distributed at regional level. Long-term and structured work is needed. Regions should have a dialogue with municipalities and distribute housing needs by municipality. This should then be implemented in housing supply guidelines so that you live up to the housing responsibility that each municipality today has according to law. The Green Party wants to maintain and develop government investment support for rental and student housing so that more climate-smart housing is built with more sustainable materials and with lower rents. However, there is still a need for further reforms. We can now see that the President-in-Office of the Council has come in so that I do not say the wrong thing when I go further in my speech. Mr. Old President! The challenge of building for the need is great, and it is a challenge that we must face up to. Those who are currently farthest from the housing market and safe housing are those with lower incomes, but what we are building most of today are homes that they are not able to demand with their own strength. We need to review and strengthen the financing conditions even for those who do not have a fat wallet. The Green Party has proposed to review the possibility of introducing a green housing account to the first home purchase. It's something I'm going to work for the government to want too. Households with the ability to pay and the willingness to pay may also find it difficult to access a dwelling, for example because of the requirements that landlords impose on tenants. A recent report by Boverket showed that about one in five housing companies today has an income requirement of three times the annual rent. In order to make it easier for individuals, we should consider establishing state rent guarantees instead of the municipal ones we have today. Then the possibility to apply for this would be equal for everyone in Sweden. Mr. Old President! We need a national, sustainable housing policy, a socially sustainable housing policy and an economically sustainable housing policy, both for the individual, for society, for companies and for ecological sustainability. Finally, with regard to ecological sustainability, I am pleased to note that there are three important points in the January agreement: we are going to set minimum requirements for building from a life cycle perspective, we are going to increase the construction of wood and we are going to introduce climate declarations for climate good construction.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1116	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by commending Emma Hult for having a greater commitment to the housing crisis than we can find in the Minister for Environment, who, when confronted with questions about how to solve the housing crisis, especially for young people, takes a heel kick and refers to the fact that unfortunately he has no magic wand. It is under all criticism that a housing minister is so casual to people's problems and to the challenges that exist and that he is also so inactive in his own residential area. More about this later. Another point I would like to make from Emma Hult is that what she is saying here about investment aid is completely wrong. You're not shooting at any more money. What you are doing in this budget is to reduce the funding from now on by 750 million in relation to the budget that won Parliament's approval in December. Then you are pushing to 3 billion in the penultimate year of the planning period and 11⁄2 billion in the last year, but now you are reducing investment aid by 750 million from the M-KD budget. That is what is happening – to say otherwise is directly wrong, Mr President-in-Office. It's wrong, wrong, wrong. All you have to do is read the budget presented today. I would also like to ask: what is going on with the block-crossing talks on housing policy? Will the Green Party stand up for what was promised after the elections and before the elections? Will we get any of those? Can Emma Hult give an answer to this question here today, Mr President-in-Office?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1122	Mr. Old President! I don't know if I'm going to try to deal with Mats Green's introduction. I find it remarkable for a Member of Parliament to attack a minister in this way. I can guarantee that the commitment of the Minister for Housing is at least as great as mine, but he may not be able to participate in all the debates in this House. I'll try to sort this out with the budget. Yes, the government reduces the funding per year. This is done because the government, unlike M and KD, has an entire Treasury department that has made estimates of how much the applications that are in will cost. We have simply used the expertise of the Government Office to calculate what the cost will be for the applications that are already granted and for the high level that was with the County Administrative Board from the turn of the year until today, which will now be granted. The difference between our budgets is that you strangled the possibility of applying at the turn of the year. However, you did not take into account the fact that there had been a lot of applications that the County Administrative Board had not been able to handle after the end of the year. I think it is important that the County Administrative Board's staff are also allowed to go on Christmas and New Year's leave. They did not get that everywhere in the country because they tore their hair to try to make it as good as possible and to try to make sure that as many homes as possible were completed. What we are doing, unlike you, is to ensure that the pile that was created because of your irresponsible handling of the entire abolition will now be dealt with.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1128	Mr. Old President! It is remarkable that the Minister for Housing has, in principle, remained absent from everything. It has gone so far that the Moderates in the Civil Committee demanded that he come there. We also heard because we probably needed to meet the Minister of Housing quite immediately. The only debates and discussions the Minister of Housing has put up in are through the media or when, through our constitutional opportunity to force him here, he has been allowed to come to Parliament to discuss housing policy – otherwise he is totally uninterested in this. That's beneath any criticism, Mr. Old President. As far as investment aid is concerned, the question here is not whether or not the government has used the competence of the Government Office, but whether what Emma Hult said earlier is completely wrong. You don't spend money at all, you pick 750 million from the M-KD budget. This is actually what you do. Then you push a little the penultimate year and the last year of the planning period. In addition, we should remember that we should come back to what directives apply to investment aid. So even that could not be achieved now. To say you're shooting money is wrong, wrong, wrong, Mr. Old President. That's not what the budget looks like. But again, with regard to the question that was not answered by Emma Hult: will there be any cross-horizontal negotiations on housing policy, as the Green Party promised before the elections and after the elections? What about it?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1133	Mr. Old President! Now Mats Green is contradicting himself. Yes, the first few years we are reducing on the forecast we have made, but we are also spending money at the end of the term of office. This is exactly what Mats Green himself has just said – that is something we can listen to afterwards. The big difference here is that we take responsibility for all the applications that came in before the end of the year, unlike what the Moderates and Christian Democrats made possible. That's the big difference. As far as cross-block talks are concerned, these are currently taking place, if one does not mean by cross-blocking that the talks should include all the parties in the Riksdag. We are currently talking with both the Centre Party and the Liberals on the issues relating to the January Agreement. I understand that Mats Green would like to be there too, because it's not so much fun not to be allowed to be. I see a need for a larger group also to talk about the major challenges we have ahead of us – or already today – in this area. In my world, it is about the financial issues, where we need to sit down with our friends in the Committee on Finance, but also about housing social policy, which I believe is by far the biggest challenge of this parliamentary term and to which none of our parties yet have the full solution. There, I think we need to find common solutions in – yes – cross-block talks. As far as I heard, the Minister for Housing also announced yesterday that his intention is for cross-block talks to take place.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1137	Mr. Old President! Thank you very much, Emma Hult! There is not much I disagree with in your speech, where you said very important and real things. Thank you for your commitment! In my speech, I mentioned the sale of the common good. In the years 2016 – 2017, a total of 25,240 public utility rentals were sold. In Stockholm, the blue-green majority have arranged for the conversion of 20,000 public-interest apartments. I raised this question with the Government and asked what the government was going to do. The Government replied: There is nothing you can do, because we have municipal self-government. As I mentioned, in 1999 the so-called stop-gap law was introduced to discourage the sale of public goods. It worked quite well, for the sale went from 24 000 apartments in 2000 to around 3 000 apartments. My question to Emma is: Are you in the Green Party, which is in the government, going to work for a similar stop law to ensure that the commons remain?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1141	Mr. Old President! The simple answer to the question is no. But I'm going to develop it a little bit, so we'll have a little more full-bodied debate. A stop law like the one introduced then, we do not think is the best solution. We protect local self-government. And, yes, you can deviate from it. But the best solution to get each municipality to assume its housing policy responsibility and perhaps realize that it is not at this point that selling out is the solution to the housing shortage is simply that they should live up to the housing responsibility they have. There is a housing responsibility according to legislation. But there is nothing that makes the municipalities need to follow it. There are municipalities that work actively with this, but there are also municipalities that do not work with that policy at all. What is mentioned about Stockholm is a municipal policy issue that I am not deeply aware of. But generally speaking, the Green Party believes that mixed residential areas and mixed tenure forms are important even in existing residential areas. In the first place we think of course that you should be able to build and seal parking spaces and other hard surfaces to get the mixed buildings. But I defend the autonomy of local government, and I take it that the local politicians in Stockholm have made a different assessment. Then this is not an issue for which the Green Party is responsible in the City of Stockholm. I also do not believe that it is we who have been running it at the hearing.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1146	Mr. Old President! Most recently in a debate with Emma Hult's colleague, we talked about mixed forms of housing, which we are in favour of. The Left Party thinks mixed forms of housing are good. But there is never talk of mixed forms of housing in well - to - do areas. Why is that? We are talking about mixed housing forms and selling and converting rental properties in poor and vulnerable areas? But as far as Danderyd and Limhamn are concerned, no one is talking about it. Why do we have double standards? It's supposed to be the same rules for everyone. Emma mentions that it is very important that we ensure that the municipalities live up to housing responsibility. Yes, we have been trying to get them to do that for many years, but we have failed. Now that we have found that it has failed to do so, what is the next step? What do we need to do? Are we going to keep saying that we have to do it, or are we actually going to take our responsibility and make sure that we have tools that force the municipalities to actually do it, like the stopping law? It does not have to be the stop law, but we must have a tool that simply ensures that housing responsibility is respected in accordance with the law. What are you going to do about this?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1148	Mr. Old President! I agree with Momodou Malcolm Jallow that we need tools for municipalities to live up to the housing responsibility that I think they should take. A study was submitted quite recently – I dare not say exactly when – where you have looked at just how you can make a distribution at regional level. It may be that a municipality may not have the conditions for land, the economy or infrastructure to provide more housing. Perhaps that is what needs to be added, or you can simply ensure that these homes are provided elsewhere in the region. But it needs to be done in a planned way and not as it is today. I can take a local example, because you know it so well. Malmö takes an enormous responsibility, while many of the small neighbouring municipalities choose not to do anything. I find it remarkable and sad that Lomma, Staffanstorp and Vellinge do not take responsibility to the extent that they need to do at the expense of Malmö. I think we're in complete agreement there. I think it is important that we ensure that all municipalities assume their housing policy responsibilities, and then we probably need more tools than we have today. I usually mention the carpets in this House, which I did not do in my speech this time. I want to make sure that more people have the opportunity to live in those parts, preferably in rented accommodation or in residential units. There are huge amounts of surfaces that are not used effectively in Sweden and that we need to use better. I think everyone would be fine if there was an apartment house somewhere in the housemats kingdom.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1153	Mr. Old President! In my speech, I tried to see if we had a common picture of problems. In order to solve a problem, one must have a common picture of problems. I note that at least Emma Hult shares three of the problems. We agree that we need to build more housing in Sweden, we agree that we need to use the housing stock we have in a more efficient way and we agree that we have the problem that young people cannot get their own housing. I understood that Emma Hult mentioned these three in her speech. Then I would like to ask Emma Hult what measures are being taken in this particular area. What I hear all the time is that the investment support will solve everything. Now Emma Hult is also talking about the fact that it has now come to light that we want a new housing target to solve the problem. I would have preferred her to have said that the credit restrictions are too strong and that we could reduce them a little, so that demand can increase, or to try otherwise to put pressure on the municipalities to build the housing that is needed and necessary. However, I did not hear any of this in Emma Hult's speech, so I would like to give her the opportunity to develop this.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1157	Mr. Old President! I would like to start by mentioning this with a goal. Generally speaking, it is good to have a goal, because then you have something to work towards. I note that at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, the government set itself a target, and quite quickly afterwards, the Alliance raised its target to be a little better. So a goal is good to have. But, no, we cannot live in a goal or believe that a goal solves this problem. However, I think it would be good if we jointly set a target for where we are going. The most important thing for me with that goal is to ensure that people who today are not able to demand what is being built or what is on the market will have it in the future. Some of the things that I think need to come to, and where I think we have the opportunity to meet on certain issues, are, among other things, about housing saving. It is a long-term solution, but it is a solution that I think needs to be found. It is healthy to save for your upcoming accommodation. I also believe that we need to review all the credit restrictions that exist. These debates often mention the requirement for the removal of funds. But there are a lot of other charges that are also in that package. It is such an issue that will have a major impact. I therefore believe that it should be part of a broad political discussion on how to simply tax and fund this sector. In order to make better use of the existing stock, we may need to be radical. For example, today two friends who want to rent an apartment can do so with a joint contract. In many parts of the country, municipalities have not actively developed so-called friend contracts. Perhaps that is something we need to support. Perhaps we should simply make it easier, so that if one friend cancels the contract, it should not mean that the other friend loses his share of the contract. There are many small things in the legislation – a lot was investigated during the last parliamentary term but more needs to be reviewed – where I think we can get along fairly well in order to find ways forward.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1162	Mr. Old President! Emma Hult says it's a good thing if we set a common goal. Then my question is, who are we? It would be interesting to know whether only the parties of the JÖK should be involved in this or whether Emma Hult refers to the parties of the Riksdag. I think we can agree on housing savings. I also think that we would have to agree on starting loans, that is to say that people who actually show that they are able to save and create a buffer can also get a starting loan from the state. We seem to agree that we want to put more pressure on municipalities to actually implement housing construction, but I did not hear whether Emma Hult was prepared to go so far as to actually consider imposing a penalty on those municipalities that do not live up to what we agree on. We do not get around this in any other way than that we in Parliament and municipalities agree on what goal we should achieve and what it is that each one should do to solve this. I am the first to say that we will never solve the housing crisis by building new ones, but we must use the surfaces that exist as efficiently as possible. Then I'll come back to the credit restrictions. I have had discussions with the Minister for Housing on this several times. My view is not to remove the credit restrictions altogether, but to look at them and look at the whole picture, because when you put on credit restrictions all the time, things get wrong somewhere. There are too many credit restrictions, which means that people can't actually get loans to buy a home. We must ensure that you can buy a home even as a young person with a lower income.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1166	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Larry Söder, for recording, thinking and a benevolent response to us trying to solve this together. I believe that we mean more parties than just those who have concluded the January agreement, especially because this sector needs long-term rules of play. These are things that shouldn't change depending on which government runs the country. It is clear that you can make adjustments, changes and investments because you want to go in a direction, but we are in a position where we need clear and long-term rules for both those who are going to build and for those who are going to live and those who are going to manage what we are building. I believe that we need a broader association than the four parties that have concluded the January agreement. I also note that the January Agreement does not solve all the challenges ahead. That is why I also see it as a clear opening to the fact that we simply need to talk more broadly. I can also say that starting loans are certainly one of the things we can look at – and we have discussed this – but I think it needs to be investigated how to compare. You can look at Norway, and Norway has both good and bad experiences. But perhaps we are in a situation where we need to take such action. I'm not closing the door so we can discuss it further. As far as fines are concerned, I can say that this is not something that we are running today. I do not want to believe that the municipalities of malice do not do what we expect in Sweden to be able to deliver together. I would rather believe that this is a lack of skills – you simply cannot recruit the necessary staff. We have skills shortages throughout the construction sector, and this affects not least those municipalities that are unable to hire building permits managers or planners, but also the infrastructure efforts needed to make you feel that the municipality can grow as much as it might need. Here we also have a responsibility, which I think the whole Parliament should take, to ensure that the infrastructure that we assess is also needed.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1172	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the CU11 report. During the previous term of office, there were twice as many dwellings as during the entire bourgeois government ownership from 2006 to 2014. That's impressive. Nevertheless, the need for new housing is great. 250 of Sweden's 290 municipalities still testify to their continuing housing shortage. Last year a part of the residential building slowed down. It was mainly about started housing. Despite braking, completed dwellings are expected to increase for 2018 and 2019 compared to the 2017 level. It is mainly in the big cities, mainly in Stockholm, that the slowdown in the number of homes started is most visible. Against the current goes Stormalmö, which is almost at unchanged levels and Storgöteborg which actually increases by about 10 percent. Responsibility for the housing shortage is shared by many. The fact that new production in particular has stopped also has a number of reasons. One thing most assessors agree on is that the demand for expensive housing is saturated. That is why, Mr President-in-Office, political action must be directed towards a better balance when it comes to the supply of housing that is consistent with what people can actually afford to live in. The solution is not market rents. If not all the arguments about justice and a living and mixed city are attached, at least the fact that the demand for expensive housing is saturated should be attached. All parties should recognise this simple and basic rule: the market controls demand and thus supply. In other words, market rents are not the solution to the housing shortage. Housing is a social and fundamental right in a modern welfare society, and the general housing policy and partnership model have served Sweden and Swedish citizens well. This should be protected and cared for by the Riksdag. We do not need more market-liberal experiments in Sweden, and this applies not least in the area of housing policy. Investment support, with its design with rental ceilings, is a reform that is well suited to a general housing policy model. It is good and important that this reform is now maintained, as it leads to the building of homes in which more people on normal incomes can actually afford to live. During the previous term of office, a series of investigations were set up and several official assignments were given, resulting in nearly 20 reports, investigations and knowledge bases. Most of the announcements requested are in line with what the government is already working on. Hence, there is no need for further announcements or investigations. No, Mr President-in-Office, it is now important that the government should instead be given the opportunity to translate this solid factual evidence that has been produced in action and sharp proposals. It is not only on the government and parliament that there is a responsibility to solve the housing shortage. The construction industry, property owners and municipalities also have a great responsibility. One problem that often recurs in the debate is the cost-driven effect that municipal special requirements have on housing construction. It goes without saying – Sweden is a small enough market for fully functioning competition. With special requirements in all municipalities, we do not even have a market but in fact 290 small, local markets in Sweden. Local authorities should adopt self-regulation for purely self-preservation purposes, because it is ultimately the municipalities that have real housing responsibility. Mr. Old President! Another problem with the cost of building is the negative productivity development in the Swedish construction industry. Here, the industry has a challenge and also great opportunities to develop its business models and ways of working to the benefit, as always in terms of increased productivity, for both the industry and society at large. During the last six months, I have met with individual construction companies as well as public housing companies and trade and interest associations. There is one measure on which there is broad consensus and which is particularly highlighted. It is a question of equal treatment between different forms of leasing. The tax reform to be implemented under the January agreement can and should look at precisely the possibilities of increasing the tax equal treatment of tenure arrangements. Although there are parts, good ones, in the January agreement that affect housing policy and will be implemented during the term of office as well as a large knowledge base for the government to work on, it is clear that the industry is keen to see a broad housing policy settlement. You want long-term rules. It was therefore gratifying that in yesterday's interpellation debate, which Larry Söder had initiated, the Minister for Housing replied that he was looking forward to such broad discussions. Mr. Old President! Solving the housing shortage and breaking segregation will be one of our most important societal challenges for several years to come. I look forward to continuing the debates in the area of housing policy during the term of office.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1185	Mr. Old President! I forgot to ask for approval when I made my speech. That is why I would now like to support the Left Party's reservation 4. I don't know if it's absolutely amazing to listen to Joakim Järrebring, or if I just get confused. We'll figure it out now. Joakim Järrebring pointed to the need to build housing. We all agree on that. But Joakim also talked about something I don't really understand. He said that market rents are not the solution to the housing shortage. When I heard Joakim say it, I thought, am I wrong? Is this really true? The fact that market rents are not the solution is a sentence that I have repeated in this House a hundred times, because Joakim's government wants to introduce market rents. I have always said that market rents are not the solution. Several other operators have also said that market rents are not the solution. When Joakim says that market rents are not the solution, I wonder if we have actually managed to persuade Joakim and the government to change their minds. I would like clarification. If market rents are not the solution to the housing shortage in Sweden, how is it that Joakim Järrebring's government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, want to introduce exactly what is not the solution?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1190	Mr. Old President! Momodou Malcolm Jallow highlights something that bothers me quite a bit. It is that the debate from both left and right is about us introducing market rents. Free rental – yes! Market rents – no! There's an important difference. Free renting is not something we want. It's part of a compromise to get a government together. And we are currently discussing what the free rent should look like. It will be implemented. But that's not a solution to the housing shortage. That is the Social Democratic position. We need other and many more measures if we are to bring about a real change in housing supply in Sweden.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1193	Mr. Old President! I find it hard to understand that this is a compromise. I understand that sometimes you have to compromise. I've heard that many times. I understand that there are sometimes compromises in politics. But to say that free renting is not market rents is to drag it too far. Anyone who knows anything about housing policy and market rents has found that these are market rents. It is up to the market to decide. If one party, in this case the property owner, has the exclusive right to set rents without the tenant, through the Tenant Association and the negotiation system that we have in Sweden today, being able to influence is the only thing that determines who gets the apartment precisely the ability to request the property based on the price. If you have enough money to ask for expensive rental apartments, you have the opportunity to get housing. If you do not have enough ability and wallet to demand expensive rental apartments, you do not get any housing. That's how the market works. It's about demand and supply. It is therefore nothing more than market rents. Does Joakim Järrebring still seriously believe that what his government wants to introduce is not market rents?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1196	Mr. Old President! Free renting is obviously a step towards a more liberalised rental market. That is exactly what the Liberals and the Center Party want. However, it is not market rents because it does not concern the existing stock. The difference between today's presumption rent system and what is market rent is very small. This first step, which we have taken to meet with the Liberals and the Centers, is not a big step towards market rents. It is also important to realise that the continuation after the free lease is about a tariff system or how to get into the negotiation system. How it's to be designed, we'll get back to.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1199	Mr. Old President! I can only agree with Momodou Jallow when he says that he is confused by the response of the Social Democrats. Joakim Järrebring says that market rents and free renting are not the same. The small problem with that is that that is what the Social Democrats have always said, until the January agreement, that it is. That is what you yourself have said all along, including in previous budget bases. That is also a little why there are Social Democratic representatives and your related organisations who have said that what the Social Democracy is about to implement in terms of renting is betrayal, and that is a lie. Then they say: No, free renting is one thing, and market rents are another thing. I do not know how many quotes and election posters there are from the Social Democrats saying that it is exactly the same. I could say a great deal about this. The committee visited the Tenants' Association a few weeks ago. It was clear that they felt that the voters had been lied to in the face during this election campaign but also during a number of previous election movements. I therefore understand the Left Party Member when he says that he is confused. I think it's hard to find someone who won't be confused by all those statements, Mr. Old President. As for my constant question as to whether there will be any cross-block discussions on housing policy, Joakim Järrebring has said that it will be – possibly, perhaps, hopefully. Good there, we say. Then I would like to ask whether the January agreement is the starting point for them. Or should the January Agreement also be the limit for them?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1205	Mr. Old President! As far as I am concerned, what I said in my speech is important, namely that we Social Democrats do not see market rents as a solution to the housing shortage. Of course we can have a debate and discussion about the difference between free renting and market rents, but that Mats Green sees free renting and a tariff as market rents, I find a little strange. I do not share that view.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1206	Mr. Old President! I have not put any value into it but simply say that so far and before the January agreement, the Social Democrats have said that free renting and market rents are the same. Point. It was actually the same thing that Momodou Malcolm Jallow said, and we all heard it. Apparently, this is no longer the case. It is now difficult for us to point out this obvious fact in the parliamentary debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I have never said that market rents are the solution to the housing shortage. I have not heard anyone in this House who has said that. I am just asking a question as to why the Social Democrats are now claiming that there is a huge difference between market rents and free renting. In a number of parliamentary debates and election manifestos, it has been said that it is exactly the same. This is what I am opposed to. Let me refer once again to this with cross-block discussions on housing policy. If there are any, as Joakim Järrebring said it would apparently be, I wonder whether the January Agreement is the basis for them or the limitation for them. If it is a basis for housing policy talks, it is absolutely fine. Then you can start from that. But if it is also to be a limitation for them, we will not get anywhere. The only thing we have is what is now on the committee's table about building permits freeing terraces. Once again, no one is opposed to building permits-free patios, but did not come and claim that this will solve Sweden's housing crisis.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1209	Mr. Old President! It is a bit sad that we get caught up in a semantic discussion about what is free renting in new production and where the limit in the rental market is when it is fully counted as market rent. Can Mats Green also agree that there is a certain difference between a total market system in the rental market and free leasing in new production which is then to be charged or negotiated according to the party model? ( SERVING AGESPRESIDENT: This may be counted as a rhetorical question, as Mats Green is not able to answer it. He'll have to do it afterwards over a cup of coffee. )
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1211	Mr. Old President! The fact that we have a semantic discussion about renting is probably something that Joakim Järrebring himself has to assume responsibility for. Market rent is not the solution," he says repeatedly from the speaker's chair. Who proposed it? That is my non-ratorical question, Mr. Old President, because Joakim Järrebring can answer it. In addition to Momodou Malcolm Jallow, Joakim Järrebring is the only person who has used this as some kind of threat from the speaker's chair. I want to give a small picture to create some order in the discussion. We do not have to move so terribly far away in Europe to end up in a capital city where the day after you find that you have a need for housing can open the newspaper in the morning. It can be browsed through and found a number of accommodation offers that better or less fit your wallet or preferences as to what type of dwelling you consider to be in need of. The next day, a tenancy agreement was signed with a landlord. We must have this picture before us when we discuss housing policy in Sweden. It is as if we are assuming in the debate that housing shortages are a situation that we will have forever. Perhaps there are even forces in society that think we should have it. Nothing can be more wrong. Why are we here discussing housing issues? Because our common goal is that one in Sweden the day after one has decided that one has a need for a home should be able to open the newspaper and find a housing offer that one can accept until and a week later have moved into the apartment. If this is not something we should work together for, I do not know why we are having this discussion.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1216	Mr. Old President! I did not understand a real question, but I agree with the general reasoning. There are different approaches to how to handle welfare building. One can have a general housing policy and compare it with targeted measures and what we see in the vast majority of the housing market in the world with social housing. I said in my speech that I think that the general housing policy and the partnership model in the Swedish housing market have served us well. I also think it is reasonable that we should start from a policy development based on such a basis. Of course, I can respect the fact that other parties would like to see a different kind of policy to address our challenges. There is a fundamental view that is diametrically different as to what kind of welfare society you want to build. We have now entered into a middle cooperation. It's very fresh. We will continue during our term of office to work towards a policy that will lead us forward and solve the housing shortage and all the other challenges we face in Swedish society. I think there's a dynamic here that we're going to take advantage of. But I'm sure we won't gain anything by getting caught up in a discussion about extremes.
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1220	Mr. Old President! . Free renting in the case of new construction is introduced. The rent in these stocks is set after an initial period according to a tariff based on comparable newly built objects with a gradual adjustment to achieve predictability or through regular negotiation. The property owner chooses which of these methods is applied... Let the quality and location of the apartments have a greater impact on the rental. A Commission shall identify the varying application of the location factor between different locations and propose appropriate measures on the part of the State in cases (in those locations) it is concluded that the situation factor is not sufficiently taken into account... The negotiation system for existing rental rights is reformed to function more effectively with an independent arbitration procedure which, in the event of a dispute, determines what is a reasonable annual increase and time limits for negotiations combined with financial sanctions when these are not held... Give the landlord and tenant a greater freedom to agree on how to price and opt-out... Increase the penalties for selling black contracts and criminalise the purchases. ..................................................... Mr. Old President! This was not a speech but a reading of what is said about renting in the January contract. My questions to Joakim Järrebring are: Is he behind these formulations about free renting in new production? Does he agree with me that market rents are not a means but that they can be a goal?
i-3955fc806ba8c046-1223	Mr. Old President! We honour agreements, Ola Johansson, whether we as a party fully share the political orientation or not. The January Agreement shall be implemented. I also believe that there is a great need to review the functioning of the housing market. The Stockholm rent, which is rewritten in the agreement, means that you should get a better renting based on location. That is something that I think is positive. Some things probably separate us, and some things we agree on. We definitely agree that the contents of the January agreement should be implemented.
