i-862ea470fb8cff03-11	Mr President, I would like to Lars Adaktusson has asked me if I am prepared to revise the government's view to date and officially recognise the Islamic state's systematic abuse of Christians and Yazidians as genocide. No one could have escaped the terrible and unimaginable testimony we have heard from those who have fallen victim to Daish's cruelty, not least from the Yazidian women and children who have been enslaved and subjected to terrible sexual abuse. There is no doubt that violations of international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights, have been committed in Iraq and Syria. Whether the crimes committed in Iraq and Syria are categorized as genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes, the international community has a responsibility to bring perpetrators to justice. It is a fundamental prerequisite for ensuring justice and redress for all those who have fallen victim to Daish's abuse in Iraq and Syria, and for preventing these crimes from being committed again and for creating the conditions for sustainable peace in the region. During Sweden's time as a member of the UN Security Council, we took an active role in raising the issue of accountability in Syria and Iraq. Sweden was a driving force for the situation in Syria to be referred to the International Criminal Court, the ICC. The Security Council is blocked on this issue, and unfortunately no referral has been made. We have therefore begun exploratory talks with like-minded people on the possibility of an alternative approach, including the possibility of setting up an international tribunal or similar as a complement to national prosecution. We are aware of the difficulties, including issues of mandate and jurisdiction. Swedish courts also have far-reaching jurisdiction to investigate crimes against international law, i.e. genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, but also terrorist offences, regardless of whether the crimes have been committed in Sweden or abroad. The way in which the mass assaults committed by Daish are to be referred to has not affected the fact that we have acted clearly in order for accountability to take place. Whether mass assaults are to be judged as genocide should be determined after a thorough and thorough examination of facts and evidence. But it is clear that this could be genocide. The government continues to follow the facts and investigations carried out by the UN and others about the abuses committed. An important aspect of such an assessment is whether, for example, a national or international court or tribunal has tried whether genocide has been committed. Sweden is a major donor to the work already under way for information and evidence gathering on Daish's abuse, not least through the UN Evidence Collection Mechanism, IIIM. We have also supported the establishment of the corresponding mechanism in Iraq, Unitad. This work will facilitate future judicial review. Lars Ada ktusson has also asked me if the government intends to recognise seyfo as genocide. For the government, there is no doubt that there were terrible abuses of the Armenian community and other minorities in the decaying Ottoman Empire during the time of the First World War. As I have mentioned in many previous debates, questions about how a government should behave and name mass abuse are complex. This is particularly true of mass assaults that lie far back in time. Based on the mandate given to the Stockholm Centre for International Law and Justice in 2015, their report showed that government statements establishing historical facts in connection with historical mass assaults are not entirely unproblematic. They can be perceived as normative for research and do not respect the academic principle of critical thinking. In the case of mass assaults in the decaying Ottoman Empire, it is important that those concerned jointly analyse and arrive at an approach to the abuse.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-20	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. The arguments and reasoning are similar to those we have heard before from the government. The fact that the government does not draw other conclusions from the brutal reality that is at stake here is regrettable. Has there ever been uncertainty since 2014 about the degree of evil in Islamic state crimes, that uncertainty should have disappeared after the stories that emerged when IS' last stronghold fell in Baghouz in eastern Syria and after testimony from the Yazidian woman Jamila published in the News of Today recently. The Secretary of State says this could be genocide. Unfortunately, that is just as anxious as it is insignificant. Three years ago, in February 2016, the European Parliament recognised the atrocities of the IS against Assyrians, Syrians, Chaldeans and Yazidians as genocide. In the work preceding recognition there were objections similar to those of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I remember how the reasoning went. I was a Member of Parliament and the initiator of the resolution. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I led the negotiations with the other groups. It was striking in this work that several members were strongly affected during the process. The more evidence and the more understanding of violence and systematics, the greater the conviction that IS terrorists were guilty of the worst and most abominable crimes of international law. Not to pronounce this, not to mention the immense by its proper name, became, for the vast majority, an unthinkable option. At the time of the vote, there was a satisfactory majority in favour of the recognition of genocide. Members from the right to the left joined up and the decision was made with acclamation. Mr President, I would like to Claiming as the Foreign Minister means that the recognition of genocide must come from a court and not from political representatives, one chooses to ignore actual realities. Referring to the recognition of the European Parliament, a number of national parliaments took the same decision. This was done in the UK, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland, Latvia, Australia and the United States, to name a few. As far as the USA is concerned, the White House under President Obamas's leadership also took a decision to recognise the abuses of Christians and Yazidians as genocide. It was decided by politicians and not by courts. In the UN Security Council, where binding decisions are made in international law, lawyers are not sitting around the table voting; they are representatives of governments. So, Margot Wallström, around the world, political representatives can recognise IS abuse as genocide. Why argue that this is not possible in Sweden? What is the principle or agreement that says that the Swedish government cannot recognise IS genocide?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-26	Mr President, I would like to It is perhaps remarkable that Lars Adaktusson has such a high tone on this issue of accountability and the need for religious freedom when he himself has attended a recent conference where the organizers pay tribute to Franco as well as inciting and inciting dissidents. It would be nice if Adaktusson could perhaps be a little careful with his own company in the same way that he demands it from others. In addition, your own party voted against, Lars Adaktusson, when the question of seyfo was discussed in the Riksdag. So this is not as clear as it may seem many times. We've acted. In fact, what matters is not what you call it, if you call it a crime against humanity or if you call it a genocide. What matters is what we do. How do we create accountability? How do we hold these criminals to account? That's where we've acted. We have taken full state responsibility to counter crimes against humanity, genocide and other hideous phenomena. We have acted and are acting, in the UN and in all possible contexts. I have nothing against saying that, as I see it, it shows all the characteristics of genocide. But I believe that the legal right is to have a judicial review, precisely in order to be able to hold individuals to account. We have therefore wanted to refer this to the ICC, and we want to continue to ensure that there is a mechanism so that it is possible to hold each individual to account for what has been done. We realize this. I myself have worked with the Yazidian group in Sweden and have met it repeatedly. I know Nadia Murad and I know exactly how this has happened. So it is not a question of there being no commitment. Don't give the impression that we wouldn't care about this, Lars Adaktusson. If there is one issue we have highlighted in all possible contexts, it is. Everyone also knows how we have acted in the Security Council to ensure that there is both evidence collection and an opportunity to conduct a legal process. In most of the countries mentioned by Lars Adaktusson, it is not the governments that have recognised genocide. This is precisely because we want to ensure that there is a full accountability and that we follow a legal process. It's the most effective. The important thing is not how we call it. That's what we do. And the important thing is that it becomes a full responsibility. I have answered this question repeatedly. I do not think anyone else doubts our commitment and our need to ensure that we support and assist these groups. The UN Security Council is blocked on this issue. This means that it has been difficult to get an ad hoc tribunal. However, it is still important that we ensure that accountability can come about. We support the international mechanisms. Swedish support is both political and financial. We only contribute SEK 5 million to the evidence collection mechanism this year. Through our humanitarian aid, we are also reducing suffering and distress in Syria and Iraq.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-36	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State has read in the party press that I have been to the Colombian Congress and attended a conference. What I was talking about was human dignity, human rights, the situation of the weakest and most vulnerable and the victims of genocide. It needs to be heard, Mrs Wallström, even among extremes, whether on the left or on the right. I hope and I believe that this is the same message that the Foreign Minister sends when she sits down with representatives of dictatorship regimes around the world. What we have just heard from the Foreign Minister does not contribute to clarity or understanding. It's misleading. If there is political will, nothing will prevent the Swedish Government from recognising genocide. Unfortunately, the will is lacking. In the foreign debate last year, Margot Wallström said: Christian Democrats focus only on one word, as if it would help. The way in which crimes of international law are categorized is therefore of no importance, according to Mrs Wallström. But the fact is that when governments and parliaments recognise genocide and use it, it has consequences. It is followed by action. Leading genocide experts such as Professor Gregory Stanton, founder of Genocide Watch in Washington, show just that in his research. The same research shows that international efforts will not be made if the international community stops using concepts such as war crimes or ethnic cleansing. There is, of course, knowledge of this in foreign ministries and governments around the world. A recognition of genocide activates the UN principle called responsibility to protection. It is an obligation to do what is necessary to protect vulnerable groups and put an end to the abuse. The word genocide is of great importance – international law and political, but also morally and personally for the victims and their families. It is therefore essential to recognise genocide that has taken place throughout history, such as seyfo, the Armenian genocide in the former Ottoman Empire. In April 2014, Stefan Löfven promised that a coming Social Democratic-led government would recognize seyfo. Despite the promise, although what happened in 1915 to this day is an open wound and trauma to tens of thousands of Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans in our country, there is no recognition. The fact that seyfo bears directly on the persecution of Christians in the Middle East that is still going on does not seem to matter either. About this, four Social Democratic council chairmen wrote in Svenska Dagbladet in May 2018. Margot Wallström own party colleagues described how hope was sparked in Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans after Lövven Promises and that the disappointment was enormous when nothing happened. As an explanation for the breach of the promise, Margot Wallström said in Swedish Television that there is a need for a discussion on the genocide convention and how useful it is. In the same context, Ove Bring, well-known professor of international law Emeritus, said that the claim is irrelevant. He added that it takes ten minutes for a lawyer to establish that the Convention is engaged in the present and in no way hinders the recognition by states of genocide in the past. ..................................................... Why, Mrs Wallström, are you betraying the promise to recognise seyfo with arguments that are irrelevant?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-46	Mr President, I would like to Excuse me, Lars Adaktusson, but why did your own group vote against it when it was raised in the Riksdag? Your own group voted against when it was raised in the Swedish Parliament. The truth is still that most governments do not make this kind of statement. It's very unusual. As far as I know, only one or possibly two governments throughout the world, directly concerned, are using the recognition of genocide. Otherwise, it is usually Parliament that does. But it's just as important. What matters is what we do. It also means something when Lars Adaktusson aligns himself with these dark men, who were at that conference. They have paid tribute to Franco and in every way express a hatred of women who think it has really gone too far. If you do not want to incite and push communities against each other, you may want to think carefully about who you are speaking for or who you are sitting at conferences with. The government has acted consistently for accountability. As I said, it shows all the characteristics and elements of the legislation to be recognised as genocide. But I'm gonna do it right. It should be ensured that a legal process is brought to justice. We have discussed history many times here. It is the same thing there; there are what I know only two governments in the world that have recognised seyfo as genocide. But even there, it doesn't matter. We will continue to work to heal wounds, come to understanding and ensure that it does not happen again. That's the most important thing we can do. Unfortunately, it is still true that Lars Adaktusson believes that if you say that word you have fixed it. It's not that simple. We have worked politically and financially, in every way, to support the mechanisms that can create accountability. And we continue to argue that we must have courts and others who can create a legal process that also means that individuals can be held accountable for what they have done.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-51	Mr President, I would like to The Foreign Minister forgot a little detail in the account of the views of the Christian Democrats on this issue. It was with a Christian Democratic casting vote that the Riksdag made the decision to recognise seyfo. That's it. That's the truth. It is clear that the government chooses not to listen to the arguments for a Swedish recognition of genocide. But I have an appeal to the Foreign Minister: listen to the victims and their relatives! Hear what the recognition of genocide means for the individual's right and the possibility of redress! In recent years, I have met people who have been affected on several occasions. On site in Iraq and Syria, I have sat down with those who were forced to leave everything they own to escape for their lives. On the plain of Nineves I have seen the vandalized churches, the negated sacred symbols and homes marked with the letter n as in Nazarene. In Kurdish areas, I have visited the camps where Yazidian refugees, marked by rape and enslavement, are trying to restart their lives. This debate, Mrs Wallström, is about these people, those who have experienced the worst abuses and crimes of the post-war period. It is now a matter of justice being done and of the guilty being brought to justice. In this context, it is to be welcomed that the government has just joined the Christian Democrats' proposal for a special international tribunal or ad hoc tribunal. We wished and said that this issue would be pursued while Sweden was in the UN Security Council. Unfortunately, we did not hear about it then, but better late than never, Mrs Wallström. With this, Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the debate.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-56	Mr President, I would like to I don't want such things to stand unanswered. I have just described that we pushed this issue very hard in the Security Council. Therefore, this lie must not remain undisputed. It is possible to check that Sweden pushed the issue to refer this case to the ICC. We have repeatedly called for and contributed to the collection of evidence and to the need for accountability. I think few others have been as active as we have been in this case. So we have really pushed this forward. However, I can agree with one thing: it should be about the victims. It should be about all those who have been subjected to this. In fact, you're leading the whole thing on a different track. We should be effective and ensure that states that are responsible under the genocide convention really prevent and punish genocide. As Lars Adaktusson knows, Swedish courts have far-reaching jurisdiction to also test individual criminal liability for genocide even if the crimes have been committed abroad. Swedish courts have ruled on genocide, such as those committed in Rwanda. That is why we should continue on that track and ensure that we demand responsibility, whether we call it genocide or crimes against humanity. We're gonna make individuals responsible. There is no obligation for governments to decide whether the criteria are met or to recognise whether genocide has been committed. What matters, of course, is what we do: to make sure that the victims are helped and to ensure that they are accountable. We will continue to do so. We will make sure, regardless of the label, that we work to ensure that accountability takes place.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-60	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me what new measures the government intends to take to reach the climate target of reducing emissions from domestic transport by at least 70% by 2030. Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me what further measures the government intends to take to achieve our goals and de facto reduce emissions from the transport sector. As the questions are similar and both have their background in the Swedish Transport Administration's annual report on road traffic emissions, I answer them all together. Transport accounts for one third of Sweden's total climate emissions. The vast majority of these emissions come from road traffic. The fact that road traffic emissions need to be reduced sharply and rapidly is not news. The Finnish Transport Administration's report points to a clear need for action. The Climate Policy Council report identifies the transport sector as a critical area. The Council points to the need for strong action. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's basis for the Government's forthcoming climate policy action plan also points to the gap that exists between today's decided instruments and the climate target for the transport sector. The Government will carefully consider the Council's recommendations in the field of transport and the authorities' analyses, which will be an important basis for the Government's continued work. Mr President, I would like to During the last parliamentary term, the government took several measures aimed at road traffic emissions. The reduction obligation or change of fuel for petrol and diesel and b onus - m alus system for light vehicles provides clear stable rules for both fuel and vehicles for the first time in a long time. These instruments came into force last summer. They are thus in a start-up phase and are intended to contribute to the reduction of emissions from road traffic. These instruments have a starting point, but they will lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Vehicles put into service today have a life span beyond 2030. There is a need for a higher proportion of vehicles on the roads that have low or no emissions. As long as we use fossil fuels, we will have high greenhouse gas emissions. The January agreement states that from 2030 it will no longer be allowed to sell new petrol and diesel cars. As stated in the January Agreement, an investigation will be set up this year and new legislation will be decided during the term of office. Furthermore, the January Agreement sets out a number of objectives and initiatives that the Government will implement in the field of transport and which aim to ensure that transport is fossil-free. Fossil-free charging and refuelling should be made possible by expanding the infrastructure, investing in the production and distribution of biogas, and a year should be investigated for when fossil fuels should be completely phased out. J ag notes that the increase in emissions in 2018 was largely due to increased emissions from heavy duty vehicles. It is therefore gratifying that decisions have now been taken in the EU which establish emission requirements for heavy duty vehicles in a similar way to those previously adopted for passenger cars. Sweden was the driving force for high ambition and had wanted sharper demands. The review to be carried out in 2022 will be important to see how the scheme can contribute to further emission reductions. Mr President, I would like to While we have decided on strong measures for both fuel and vehicles, it is clear that we need to work more to achieve a transport-efficient society. To achieve the objectives, we need to review how accessibility can be ensured while reducing emissions. The transfer from road transport to other modes of transport is needed, as is the coordination and efficiency of freight transport. In conclusion, there is a strong political will and a well-developed analytical basis from our authorities – now more also the Climate Policy Council – to take the issue of reducing emissions in the transport sector further. This government is giving this a high priority.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-69	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister for Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, for the answer to my interpellation. I would also like to thank Jessica Rosencrantz of the Moderates, who have also highlighted the issue of increased emissions from road traffic in an interpellation. It is particularly worrying that emissions from this sector increased by as much as 76 000 tonnes in the previous year. Emissions from truck transport increased by 3 per cent in 2018. This is happening at a time when we have a climate policy framework in place and have a government that wants Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. So we actually have a lot of instruments and measures in place. But they seem to be far from sufficient. We have a climate target that says that emissions from the transport sector will be reduced by 70% by 2030. We will by no means achieve that objective with the measures and decisions that exist now. This was last noted in the review by the Climate Policy Council mentioned by the Minister. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also mentioned this in its documentation, which they have sent to the government. I note that the Minister addresses a number of areas where action is needed. But it sounds a bit like we have to wait until autumn for an action plan from the government before we hear about any concrete new measures. Mr President, I do not really agree with that, but it is here and now that we need to present new strong measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on an important area raised by the Climate Policy Council. We from the Swedish parliament and government are planning for future infrastructure. Both the Climate Policy Council and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency note that climate targets are not integrated into this infrastructure planning. For example, we see this in the Government's proposal to build a new motorway here in the Stockholm area. It is called Tvärtändning Södertörn and will cost over SEK 10 billion. The Environmental Protection Agency clearly states that this motorway will lead to increased emissions. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister: how can we plan for increased emissions from road traffic by building new motorways in the Stockholm area in 2019, when we have a climate law and a climate policy framework and when our expert authority says that we cannot do that? I would like an answer to that. The Minister mentions the reduction obligation, i.e. the compulsory incorporation of biofuels. What happens to the reduction obligation after 2020? It is good that we have a tax reduction for biogas and other renewable fuels, but it is also only enough until next year. What happens to it after 2020? Are you fighting in Brussels so that we can continue to have it? Will there be a road toll on heavy goods vehicles, so that it will be more expensive to transport in this way and so that we can move the transport to the railways? When does such a fee arrive? There are many questions I would like answers to, Mr President.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-75	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. There is broad support in the Swedish Parliament for our climate goals. That is why it is so worrying that emissions from road traffic increased in 2018 and that we are thus further from achieving our common goals. This also confirms previous statistics from SCB, which show that emissions have increased or stood still in the last two years. It is clear that S and MP's environmental policy has not produced any results. Instead of taking a holistic approach to the issues, red-green climate policy has been characterised by sprawling symbolic policies. Seven out of eight of the government's actions have been criticised by authorities for lack of effectiveness. Unfortunately, may I say, it is not entirely surprising that this has not produced results. The conversion of our transport operations is based, above all, on two legs: an increase in the involvement of biofuels, not least for the cars already rolling on our roads, and an increase in electrification. Not least the latter, I have heard the Government talk warm about many times. I asked for action from the government, but unfortunately the answer was empty. Instead, the government abolishes the investment in charging poles along our roads included in the M-KD budget. Not least, I would have liked a clearer road map towards electrification, if that is the solution to the problems of the transport sector. A recent Sweco report states that the need for electricity will increase by nearly 30% by 2045 if the road maps for industry and the transport sector are to be implemented. So if we are to succeed in electrifying our transport, we will need much more electricity and energy than we do today. Instead of a solution to how we can bring more electricity and energy to the transport sector, we see how the Green Party is doing what it can to phase out nuclear power, which accounts for 40% of our energy production today, with the target of 100% renewable in 2040. The Moderates want more of renewable energy, but it is clear that we will need both renewable and nuclear energy if we are to succeed in electrifying our transport in real life. I therefore wonder, Mr President and the Government, whether the government has a plan for electrification of the transport sector. Has the government done any analysis of how the government's energy policy goals are jacketing into the ambition to electrify our transports for real? Has the government carried out an analysis of whether solar and wind power alone will be able to replace the 40% of energy produced by nuclear power today and to cover the additional 30% increase in energy production needed to achieve fossil freedom? Is there, Mr President, an analysis behind electrification of the transport sector? What is the government's strategy for success?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-82	Mr President, I would like to I thank both Members for an important debate. With regard to fundamental reforms to reduce emissions, the energy, infrastructure and environmental desk drawers gaped completely empty when the government took office in 2014. During the last parliamentary term, we took the objective of reducing emissions in the transport sector to 70% through the Environmental Objectives Preparation. We adopted the Climate Act. We appointed the Climate Policy Council, which has now produced its first report. We implemented and succeeded in getting through in Brussels the reduction obligation for the fuel sector, the so-called fuel change, which means that we are now forcing renewables into petrol and diesel tanks. We also implemented a bonus – malus reform for new cars; we tighten the requirements significantly for bonus cars and raise taxes on the cars that emit. These are reforms that have taken a long time to get through in the Swedish parliament. I would now like to turn specifically to Jessica Rosencrantz. If we had started a long time ago with a shift in the transport sector when you were in government, it is clear that it would not have been as urgent to bring emissions down as it is now. There were no reforms in place. There were not even any targets that we had to be heading towards. We had to work on this during the last parliamentary term. The effort to reduce emissions can in principle be divided into three sectors. One of them is that we need to increase the involvement of renewables in petrol and diesel. We now have in place a law on the change of fuel. Jens Holm asks what will happen to it. According to the January agreement, the ambition of the reduction obligation or the change of fuel will increase. We will establish this already in 2019. Now there is an indicative target level to reduce emissions by 40% in petrol and diesel by 2030. We will see if we will have to increase that level and above all increase the level of interference. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency have both stated that with the measures and instruments that we already have in place, we will meet the target of minus 70 per cent approximately half. We are not entirely without instruments, quite the contrary. It is just that the instruments that we have put in place take time before they start to give effect. We have an emission gap of 6-7 million tonnes to reach the 2030 target. I see that goal is perfectly achievable. Firstly, this can be done by increasing the involvement of renewables in petrol and diesel, secondly by increasing electrification and thirdly by improving transport efficiency. Here the Swedish Transport Administration says that car traffic can decrease by 27-40 per cent by 2030 without reduced accessibility only we have more transport efficient solutions. We are in a paradigm shift in terms of both technology and energy supply. I do not share Jessica Rosencrantz' concern about the supply of electricity. We are facing a paradigm shift where we see how renewables explode and where people can produce their own electricity. This applies not least to the transport sector and the car sector. There, transmission, smart grids and smart logistics solutions, not least with automation, will contribute to efficiency.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-89	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly what the minister says. New technologies are not enough, but we need to build a transport-efficient society. Basically, we need to create a society in which public transport, walking and cycling take precedence over, for example, motorism. That is why I asked the question about infrastructure planning which the Minister did not answer. The Minister will be happy to answer it. How is it that the government in 2019, with climate law and when we really know everything, is still planning for new motorways? This happens despite the fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Climate Policy Council criticise the fact that we do not include climate policy objectives in infrastructure planning. A very straightforward question in this context is: Does the Minister think it is compatible with the climate targets to build Tvärtänden Södertörn here in Stockholm for SEK 10 billion, which will increase road traffic and thus emissions? Linked to how we build a transport-efficient society, there is the question of public transport. I sometimes think it's forgotten. It is certainly a regional and local issue. But, of course, we from the parliament and government can facilitate increased collective travel. I find it worrying that the cost of travelling collectively has increased more than twice as much compared to other price increases in society. Can we make it cheaper and easier to travel collectively, Isabella Lövin? I welcome what the Minister answers to our interpellations. Isabella Lövin said it should be invested in the production and distribution of biogas. It is very good to promote biogas. It is good that the Minister says it should be invested in production. But who should invest in the production of biogas and, above all, how should we promote that production? Mr President, I would like to I believe that such large-scale production of biogas cannot be done other than through government subsidies to get such production going. Then it can probably stand on its own feet after a number of years. Does the Minister think it would be good to have some form of investment aid to get large-scale production of sustainable biogas going? Mr President, I would like to When you look at the answers from the Minister, everything is what is stated in the so-called January Agreement, the agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals. I have to ask the Minister: are there any concrete proposals to reduce emissions from the transport sector that the Minister has that are outside the January agreement, because I do not think that the January agreement is enough? Can the Minister give some concrete examples of measures that are outside cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals? It's really needed.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-96	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I note that the Government is happy to point the finger at previous governments. There will be a rather regrettable debate in the end where everyone can blame everyone historically. I note that the FFF study on fossil freedom on the way was prepared by the Alliance Government and was perhaps the most important starting point in order to get real work started on emissions from the transport sector. It is even more worrying to note that the Government does not share my concerns about the energy supply in Sweden. This is at a time when we receive warnings from all sides and edges from industry, cities and towns around Sweden that turn down business start-ups. They cannot expand charging poles in Mälardalen because the electricity is not enough. At this point, the Government does not share my concerns about energy supply. There is broad consensus that it is electrification that is a large part, not to say the bulk, of the solution for the transport sector to be fossil-free. The fact that charging poles cannot be expanded in this situation or other ways to put in place new technologies for electrified transport is a matter of concern. When even the UN Panel on Climate Change describes in its main scenarios that a significant increase in nuclear power is included in order to achieve our climate goals in the world, we see that the government, led by the Green Party, is heading in the opposite direction and rather wants to dismantle the 40% that nuclear power stands for in Sweden. At the same time, we see that energy will need to increase by 30% from today's levels in order to succeed in electrifying industry and transport. I note that the Government replies that she does not share my concerns about energy supply. Then, of course, my question is whether it is the government's assessment that energy supply is not a problem in Sweden today. I repeat the question: has the government carried out any analysis and has there been a roadmap for how we will succeed in electrifying industry and transport? How are we to succeed in replacing both today's 40% nuclear power and also increasing energy production by 30%? Is there an analysis of how we can electrify our road transport, or is it wishful thinking on the part of the government?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-102	Mr President, I would like to Now the questioners are starting to slide across the whole of Sweden's energy supply. I thought we were talking about the transport sector. It is clear that we have a challenge, especially when it comes to the power grid and distribution. There we need to expand more transmission capacity in the country so that we can cope with a renewable energy system. As far as I know, the Moderates are still behind the energy agreement where we have a target of 100% renewable by 2040. Until otherwise announced, that is what the Riksdag is behind. It has now also made it possible, for example, for wind power to be expanded in Sve Rige. It will account for 25 per cent of Sweden's electricity supply within four years. If we do not deduct the incentives for wind power, then we can account for 50 per cent of Sweden's electricity supply by 2040. We have 40% renewable hydropower. It is not that we ban new nuclear power in the Energy Agreement. I think Jessica Rosencrantz knows that. What we are saying is that we should not go in with huge subsidies to build new nuclear power. The closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 is due to their outdated and uncertain nature. Updating those reactors would cost 1 – 1 1⁄2 billion per reactor. Sweden today has an energy surplus. We are net exporters of electricity. That is why I say that I am not concerned about Sweden's energy supply in the near future. However, we need stable conditions for our power companies and for the energy sector, and that can be achieved through policy. What the Energy Agreement has done is to release an enormous willingness to invest in the power industry, where it is known that there is a stable precondition for the investments that need to be made here and now. If we do everything very uncertain now, we may slow down these investments with the result that taxpayers will then have to go in with billions to invest in unsafe nuclear power which, if we take such a decision, will probably not be able to be completed for decades. It is the experience of Finland, and it is the experience of Britain. I therefore think that what Jessica Rosencrantz says leads very wrong. I share Jens Holm's impatience, and I am very pleased that figures today show that, for example, air travel in Sv erige has gone down by almost 5% in the first quarter. This shows how important it is to change behaviour and to raise the issue on the table. With regard to the preliminary figures for the increase in freight traffic last year, I am convinced that transport buyers must take greater responsibility. We have to raise that this is a problem, and those who buy transport must also be willing to pay something more for the transport to go by rail and not on heavy trucks. As far as road user charges are concerned, the January agreement states that we should have an environmentally damaging fee or tax to replace the Eurovignette. As far as infrastructure planning is concerned, we agree that we need to review all relevant legislation so that it is compatible and goes hand in hand with the Climate Act. We cannot steer in different directions, because then we will not arrive. It is therefore important that we look at all the decisions, but I would also like to point out that the infrastructure framework has historically high levels of investment in public transport and rail. (TALMANN: As the Government noted, the debate is about emissions from road traffic. )
i-862ea470fb8cff03-113	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that comment. We can have the nuclear debate some other time. It is so incredibly important to focus on reducing emissions from road traffic, and it is worrying that they increased last year. I thank the Minister for his reply on infrastructure planning. I take it that there is a possibility of stopping a project like Tvärtändning Södertörn if it turns out that it is breaking our climate targets. I also hope for a future infrastructure plan with investments that have fully integrated our climate goals. I also hope for a clearer control system for public transport so that we can make it cheaper and more accessible to people so that we can travel more collectively. As regards the issue of renewable biofuels and how we can produce them, particularly biogas, I have still not received an answer. I hope for some form of production support from a central point of view so that we can build a domestic market for biogas. In light of this, it is also important for the government, and the Minister in particular, to fight in Brussels in order for us to continue to have a tax reduction on renewable biofuels. We have not yet received an answer to this, but the Minister still has the chance to respond to it. Overall, I think it has been a clarification debate which shows that we must continue to push the government for more measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector. What is said in the January agreement is not enough. We need more measures to reduce these emissions, and I hope so in the future.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-119	Mr President, I would like to Finally, I can say that I am concerned when we come further from reaching our climate targets every year. With the government's spring change budget, we are returning to a sprawling symbolism policy, where, as has been said, seven out of eight actions by the government have previously been criticised by the expert authorities for lack of effectiveness. We see that what the government spends perhaps the most money on, Climate Klimaklivet, has been condemned by the Swedish National Audit Office for not being part of a cost-effective combination of instruments to reach the Swedish climate target by 2030. These are rather strong words from the Swedish National Audit Office. While we see this return to a sprawling symbolic policy that takes us further from our climate goals, after today's debate, I can note that, after all, there is a lack of an overall perspective on how to achieve both increased use of biofuels, if I return to Jens Holm's many issues, and not least how to achieve electrification of the transport sector. The government abolishes the investment in charging poles along Sweden's roads that we in the Moderates and Christian Democrats have in our budget. At the same time, it does not really take the concerns seriously from the many parts of the country that are reporting that charging poles cannot be extended in some places due to electricity shortages in the system today. In the longer term, there is no analysis of how we can really ensure that there is enough electricity and energy to have fully or partially electrified transport in 2030. It is therefore a contribution to the government to take this issue more seriously than I feel they are doing today and to gladly return to Parliament with a comprehensive plan and strategy for how we can really electrify our transport sector. It is necessary if we are to reverse developments as they stand today and actually get closer to climate targets and no further away from them.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-124	Mr President, I would like to Reducing emissions from the transport sector is about three different parts. We have a plan for how to reduce emissions by 70%, and we are halfway there with the instruments that we have today. We need to increase the ambition of the reduction obligation, and this is the government that is about to review. We need to continue to expand the charging infrastructure throughout the country and also streamline the bonus – the malus system and ensure that we get more transport on public transport through the third leg, which is efficiency efficiency. I believe that if we work together in this direction, we will get there. It's gonna be tough. We've started way too late. However, in the last parliamentary term, we laid the foundations for reforms that will enable us to reduce emissions on all three legs. Urban environment agreements will now also include urban freight transport. We have environmental compensation for those who move goods from truck to rail to make it more attractive. We set up a national coordinator to ensure that more smart intermodal ways of transferring goods from roads to shipping and rail are provided. We have a strategy for how to get there, and I and the Minister for Infrastructure will sit down with all the actors to see how we can get even more speed in the transition process. I note that last week the haulage industry launched Fair Transport. Better environmental procurement in transport I think will be a very important part. Biogas is already being supported through the Climate Cells, and we will continue to do so.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-129	Mr President, I would like to Erik Bengtzboe has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that Arbetsförmedlingen fulfills its mission. In connection with Erik Bengtzboes's question, I would like to start by pointing out the following. The control work of the Employment Service is a central and very important part of the function of unemployment insurance as a conversion insurance. A well-functioning control system is important for several reasons: on the one hand, to ensure that a job seeker actually takes the measures expected by him to find a new job and, on the other hand, to make it easier for the Employment Service to work with the job seekers. A well-functioning control system is, of course, also important for the legitimacy of unemployment insurance, and it is therefore important that the Employment Service takes its mission, to ensure the role of unemployment insurance as a conversion insurance, very seriously. As Erik Bengtzboe probably already knows, in 2016 the Government commissioned the Delegation against over-utilisation of and incorrect payments from welfare systems to carry out scale studies regarding incorrect payments from the current systems in areas where there are significant risks for this and where such studies are missing or out of date. In December 2017, the Government also commissioned the Unemployment Insurance Inspection to review the Labour Service's control work in unemployment insurance and in labour market policy programmes. As mentioned above, both reports identify shortcomings in the control functions of the Public Employment Service. Arbetsförmedlingen's management is responsible for ensuring that the activities are carried out efficiently and in accordance with applicable law. It is important that the Public Employment Service ensures that shortcomings in the management are addressed. I will monitor how the Authority takes on this task and will review the need for action. The question of monitoring job seekers will also be dealt with in the context of the reform of the Employment Service. In doing so, it will be important to establish an appropriate organisation for the monitoring of job seekers.
i-LNtWVwi3zWzhbkxUQGj7Qx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Thus, the unemployment insurance inspection notes that up to SEK half a billion has been paid out of the register only in 2017. It's extremely serious. This is ultimately about the contributions paid by employees to the unemployment fund, and it is also about large amounts of tax money that have not gone to what they are going to do. It should be something that concerns the government, it should be something that leads to action and it should be something that one takes quite seriously when up to half a billion dollars a year rolls in a wrong way. First of all, as the Government is concerned, Mr President, it is crucial for the legitimacy of the Swedish system and the Swedish model. From an international perspective, we have generous assurances to ensure that there is a change for people economically at times of unemployment. This requires being at the disposal of the labour market, actively looking for work and making yourself employable and thus keeping a foot in the labour market rather than being knocked out. The fact that the IAF then finds that up to one in three people gives false information that they are looking for a job and therefore also receive false payments is extremely serious. But what is even more serious is that the main source of error in making wrong payments is precisely that the government agency Arbetsförmedlingen does not comply with the regulations that the parliament and government have set up. Secondly, Mr President, this also raises major problems with the functioning of Swedish labour market policy. We know that one of the most important measures to ensure that people get jobs is that they are actively at the disposal of the labour market, that they are looking for jobs, that they are accessible and that they are not gradually moving further and further away from the labour market from losing their jobs. The blatant disregard of the acquis therefore has serious consequences – not only for the legitimacy of the system, not only for the finances of the unemployment fund and the state, but also for the real opportunities for the unemployed to find a job. When cheating is too easy, when you don't have to look for a job and when Arbetsförmedlingen also doesn't do the checks they should do and doesn't follow up in the way it should, it simply leads to people not following the rules. This also means that people do not receive the support measures and interventions from the Employment Service to which they are entitled and which are important – as the responsible Government usually points out – in order to bring job seekers closer to the labour market. My question to the Government remains, Mr President: does the Government really not see any need at all, with the rather serious tasks that have now been repeated for a number of years, to react and to ensure that the Employment Service actually complies with the regulations that exist?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-142	Mr President, I would like to I share Erik Bengtzboes's view on the seriousness of this. Of course we must act, as I also said in my interpellation response. It is, of course, totally unacceptable that the Public Employment Service should not report to the a-cassettes when people mishandle their job seeker. The work of the a-cassors has also been examined and there have not been any major deviations. The big problem is Arbetsförmedlingen, which does not report further. This is important for several reasons and therefore serious when it is not being followed. The insurance is built on the fact that we have a sanctioned staircase. If you misbehave your job seeker, you should receive a warning, which normally means that you start looking for a job more and that the chances of getting a job increase. If you continue to misbehave your job seeker or misbehave it more severely, there will be increased sanctions. This is why it is very serious when the Employment Service does not report what you see in the form of shortcomings in the job seekers of the unemployed. I take this issue very seriously. It is, of course, unacceptable that this is the way it is. That is why the government – I would like to point out – gave this mission to the Inspection for Unemployment just over a year ago: precisely because we suspected that these deficiencies existed. The seriousness of this has now been demonstrated, and it goes without saying that it must lead to action.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-146	Mr President, I would like to It is appreciated that the Government notes this. However, the answer also states that the question must simply be followed forward and that no action is currently being taken. At least no action has been planned, although for years it has been suspected that these shortcomings exist and have now seen them black and white. I think that is quite serious. I think the government should have a little more long-termism in the matter. Mr President, I would like to In its reply, the Government refers to the fact that part of the solution is the general work of now reforming Arbetsförmedlingen and that Arbetsförmedlingen will have a new role where this will be followed up. This is the case: the Employment Service is facing a major reform as a result of the January agreement between four parties. The Public Employment Service will become a narrow authority of experts whose main task is to carry out checks, which is clearly failing. Does the Government think that the Swedish people and the Swedish Parliament can feel secure with a reform where this mission should go to an authority that obviously fails with it today?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-149	Mr President, I would like to I would like to reiterate that it goes without saying that action is needed. It is unacceptable that we have this level of failure to report to the a-cassages when people do not comply with the regulations. It goes without saying that action is needed. In the first place, of course, it is the Public Employment Service that should take these measures. It is an authority's duty to comply with the acquis. It is, of course, the authority that is ultimately responsible for the authority's compliance with the regulatory framework that the policy has decided on. That's it. That is where responsibility must lie. However, I would also like to point out that, with the reform of the Public Employment Service that we are now implementing, there is an increased focus on control issues. Of course, the background from this report will be an important part of how we design the work in the future to ensure a good quality of the control function.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-152	Mr President, I would like to It is indeed the case that the Swedish legal system and the Swedish model look in such a way that it is the authorities that are responsible. But it is also the government that is responsible for the authorities. It is not that the Swedish Parliament can call the Director General and let him answer questions. In fact, it is the responsible minister who must ensure that the authorities carry out their mission in the manner in which they are to do. The Government refers to diffuse measures in a situation where half a billion annually rolls out of the a-cassages. It feels like there's a lot here that the government could take hold of. This is particularly true in a situation where we note that the Swedish labour market, Mr President, is becoming more and more divided. At the same time as the economic boom is rolling and unemployment is falling in large broad groups, we can see that unemployment is hard on others. It is clear that we necessarily need to be better at providing support and at training and matching people in order to make it easier for them to enter the labour market. And it is clear, Mr President, that the tools and policies that are needed are missing from the current government. The employment service and its function, as well as the function of the unemployment fund, are fundamental to this, together with a well-functioning supply of skills enabling adults to actually enter the labour market. It is a question of changing skills and strengthening skills when the skills you have become insufficient for the labour market. In view of this, Mr President, it is particularly worrying that the budget that the government has just presented is deducting half a billion SEK from Sweden's municipalities in terms of appropriations for adult education. Mr President, I would like to The government's talking about action. I think the Parliament would appreciate it if they actually came in as well.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-158	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that measures are needed– I have already said so. I take this very seriously. Changes are needed in order for the agency to better live up to and comply with the regulatory framework that has to be followed. That responsibility rests with the authority's management. But of course it is always me, as Minister for Labour, and the government that is ultimately responsible, and we do not hesitate to take further action.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-159	Mr President, I would like to Louise Meijer has asked me why I have delayed presenting legislation to the Riksdag to ensure that returnees of IS terrorists are brought to justice. The government has carried out a historic extension of the punishable area of terrorism-related actions. It is thanks to our legislative initiatives that Sweden today has well-developed and effective criminal law in the field of terrorism. This was not the case when we took office in 2014 after an eight-year bourgeois government. On our initiative, a special criminal liability has been introduced for terrorism travel and the reception of terrorism training. Funding a terrorist or terrorist organisation has also become a criminal offence. The terrorist crime as such has also been extended. Earlier this year, the Government decided on a Council of Law referral proposing a special criminal liability for those involved in the activities of a terrorist organisation in a way that is designed to promote, strengthen or support the organisation. The Council of Law referral also proposed special criminal liability for those who, without participating in a terrorist organisation, are associated with such an organisation. The Legislative Council does not make the same assessment as the investigator whose proposal was the basis for the proposal of the Council of Law referral and the majority of the referral bodies which expressed their views on the investigator's proposal, but considers that the proposal restricts the freedom of the constitutionally protected association. We are therefore moving on at a high pace with the second proposal in the Council of Law Resolution, which means that it should be punishable to have relations with a terrorist organisation. This could involve, for example, taking up equipment or vehicles on behalf of a terrorist organisation or renting out premises or land to such an organisation. We have also recently presented two legislative proposals to further strengthen the conditions for combating crime linked to terrorism. The first proposal means that the Security Service and the National Operations Department of the Police Authority will have extended access to information from signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities. It is of great importance for the ability to conduct intelligence activities related to international terrorism. The second proposal concerns new rules on data storage for law enforcement purposes. The proposal restores the Police Authority and the Security Service to one of the most important tools for preventing and investigating serious crime. Access to digital tracks by law enforcement authorities is crucial for increasing security and combating the most serious crimes, such as terrorist offences. In Sweden, as in other rule of law around the world, there is a fundamental principle that says that no one can be sentenced to punishment or other criminal sanctions for an act that was not subject to criminal sanctions when it was committed. This means that those people who travelled to Syria in 2013 and 2014 in order to fight for IS cannot be sentenced for carrying out a so-called terrorism journey. Let me point out then that it was Louise Meijer's own party that was in power between 2006 and 2014. However, there are of course a number of other crimes that may be relevant to those returning from the fighting in Syria. These include, for example, terrorist offences, preparation for terrorist offences, recruitment to terrorism, war crimes, murder and rape – to name but a few. For us, the prevention, detection and prosecution of acts related to terrorism is a top priority. At the government's initiative, an investigation is currently reviewing criminal law on terrorism. The mandate includes, among other things, proposing penalties for all offences covered by terrorism law. In conclusion, I do not agree with Louise Meijer's claim that I have delayed presenting legislation to the Riksdag to ensure that returnees of suspected IS terrorists are brought to justice. This is exactly what we have been doing since October 2014.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-170	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden is always one step behind when it comes to terrorist legislation. It is for me and for the vast majority of Swedes, I think, quite unimaginable. In 2013 and 2014, trips to Syria were most extensive. Sweden did not criminalise terrorist trips until 2016, i.e. two years after most of them went down to IS. Since 2014, several people who joined IS have returned to Sweden. Säpo expects about 150 of them. We do not yet even have a law on participation and association on the ground, a law that can effectively condemn these people. Sweden is constantly the step behind. Other countries have a more alert attitude. In the UK, IS returnees are sentenced to prison and can also be deprived of their British citizenship. Similarly, the citizenship of IS terrorists can be withdrawn in Denmark and the Netherlands. In Finland, Belgium and Germany, legislative proposals are planned to make this possible. In Norway, participation in or association with a terrorist organisation is criminalised. The Norwegian security police report that more than half of those returning to Norway are in custody. In Denmark it is possible to condemn people for the promotion, inciting or abetting of terrorist crimes. This has led to the conviction of most returnees. In France, all returnees are usually sentenced to prison. It doesn't matter whether they fought for IS or only participated in some help function, for example as an IS wife. What is it like in Sweden? Well, here the returnees are called to a voluntary conversation with Säpo. The Government appointed an investigation in May 2017 to investigate the introduction of criminalisation of participation in and association with terrorist organisations. The investigation was completed already in December 2017. Then the investigation was placed in a drawer at the Government Office, as I understand it. Only over a year later was the proposal sent to the Law Council, and now the Law Council says that the legislative solution chosen by the government does not hold. 150 people have returned from IS. At least 100 more are expected to return sooner or later. We still have no legislation in place that can effectively punish these people. My question to Minister Morgan Johansson, who has been responsible for the government since 2014, is therefore: Why did the government delay to leave a legislative referral on criminalising participation in and involvement with terrorist organisations for over a year?
i-Qu5zBEgE6JP6zFeqzbKeXb	Mr President, I would like to As Louise Meijer points out in her interpellation, the war in Syria started in 2011. The number who travelled from Sweden to the conflict area peaked in 2013 and 2014. In the 2014 election campaign, the Moderates said they would ban and criminalise these terrorist trips. Then they lost the election. As I stepped through the doors of the Ministry of Justice, I asked the officials: What have they done so far? Have any measures been taken to criminalise the travel of terrorism? Officials had to look down on the floor and say: No, it has not. It wasn't their fault. It was simply the case that the political leadership, my predecessor Beatrice Ask under the leadership of Fredrik Reinfeldt, had not given any mandate whatsoever to criminalise this. No investigation directives, no investigations and no legislative process at all started. I had to start from the beginning then, in the autumn of 2014, despite the fact that what had been said had been raised at its worst in 2013 and 2014. What have we done during this period? Terrorism trips have been criminalized since 2016; that's right. It was an effect of the process that I started in 2014. It takes a couple of years to produce legislation. We have a criminal record of receiving education. In the past it was only criminal to provide training for terrorism; it was not forbidden to receive it. So when I took office, it was basically a punishment to go abroad and train as a terrorist, and the then government had done nothing about it. But now it is criminalized to also accept education. In addition, we have extended the classification for the terrorist financing crime. There has been a trial in Solna that has been about terrorist financing. It is precisely the legislation that we introduced in 2016 that is currently being examined. Now you do not have to show that someone has funded an individual terrorist offence; it is enough to show that someone has funded an organisation. We have therefore extended this criminal offence. In addition, we initiated two cross-block agreements with a large number of proposals during the last term of office, 2015 and 2017. The Moderates were in these talks. We agreed in every step that we would take and what steps we would take. It was 2017 that we went forward with this extension so that we would also include participating crimes and related crimes. An investigator was then appointed to do this. In addition, we have greatly increased resources for both the Security Service and the police. We have stronger legislation now than we have ever had in the area of terrorism, and we have more resources allocated to it than ever before. On the way to Parliament is now a new legislation on data storage. This means that you can increasingly find out who has called who, at which times and where you were then. This legislation is on the way. We are also on the way with new legislation on signalling, so that we can continue to collect information from the FRA even after a preliminary investigation has been opened. It is also extremely important. We are also on our way with a new secret coercive device: secret data reading. It's on the table. We are also working on the issue of the participation and association crime. As I say in my answer, we are now trying to find a way to meet the demands of the government. I'm the Minister of Justice, and I intend to follow the Constitution. We cannot put a proposal on Parliament's table that violates the Constitution. But we have initiated talks, including with the Moderates, to see how we can jointly find a way forward. I hope that we will also be constructive in this process.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-186	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson says in his response to my interpellation that Sweden today has well-developed and effective criminal law in the field of terrorism. I wonder if he really means what he says. When IS-returners come to Sweden, they are called to a voluntary conversation with Säpo – a voluntary conversation with Säpo! I understand that Morgan Johansson is happy to talk about the time of the Alliance in the government; he usually does. But it was more than two mandates ago. I also understand that Morgan Johansson is proud of the reforms he has actually implemented. But it's too little and too late. The data storage proposal was finalised in October 2017. The proposal for signal reconnaissance was completed in August 2018. As regards the proposal for a secret data reading, the investigation was completed in November 2017, but no legislative proposal has yet been presented. Several of the measures agreed between the Moderates and the Government in 2015 and 2017 have still not been implemented. One cannot describe it in any other way than that the government has been delaying effective legislation in this area.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-190	Mr President, I would like to No government has strengthened terrorist legislation in the same fundamental way that we have done during our term of office. No one has taken as many initiatives, and no one has set aside as much resources to combat terrorism as we have done. In the past, no one has managed to conclude so many and comprehensive block-crossing agreements on what to do as we did in the last parliamentary term. Of course, you can never be satisfied when you know that things are going to continue. But we also need to take things in order, and we need to ensure that legislation actually works. Now Louise Meijer thinks that it has taken too long to get the legislative proposals for a referral and to produce a legislative referral. Then she forgets that this House deposed us as a government immediately after the September elections. In practice, all autumn was spent on government formation, and we could not take any initiatives during this period. That's how it works. As soon as the government knot was loose and we were back in government position again we were able to complete the proposals, and now we can go first to the Law Council and then to the Riksdag. Of course, I would much rather have stayed and not been deposed as a minister last autumn. Then we wouldn't have lost this time, but that's the end of it. Now it is important to ensure that we continue to have the highest speed. As I said, we will shortly come up with a revised proposal for the joint crime. We also raise the question of how freedom of association should be interpreted in the discussions with the other parties. What caused the Law Council to object to our original proposal was, among other things, the wording of Chapter 2 of the Government. Section 24, which establishes freedom of association. The Law Council makes the interpretation that it does not matter what activity an association engages in; it is still protected by the freedom of association in the form of government. I can certainly question whether it is reasonable, for it means that whether an association is involved in collecting stamps or in blowing people up, it is still protected in the form of government in exactly the same way as an association is regarded. That is why I have opened up to do a review in this part too. However, we take this in two parts, because if we are to change the form of government, it will take until 2023. Until then, legislation must be developed that criminalises as much as possible any act that facilitates and strengthens terrorist organisations in different ways. That is why we are now working on a new bill. When we are done with it – as we will be shortly – we will, of course, want to have a conversation with the other parties behind the terrorist agreements. The Moderates are one of them, and I hope that we can continue to have a constructive discussion on how to move the process forward. My firm stance and view is that we should criminalise as many acts as possible that facilitate and strengthen terrorist organisations.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-199	Mr President, I would like to I do not question the intentions of the Minister of Justice; however, I question his tempo. 41 municipalities are at risk of receiving IS returnees. 4 of these are Scanian municipalities, of which one municipality is Lund. In small picturesque, academic Lund, where both I and the Minister of Justice live together with thousands of students and other Lunders, there will thus be IS-returners. No one who has returned has been convicted. The only thing that happens is that they are called to a voluntary conversation with Säpo. Surely that cannot be an effective criminal law. Doesn't Sweden deserve better? Do not Sweden and our citizens deserve that IS-returners are put behind bars? And if the Minister of Justice thinks so, why has he not ensured that such legislation is in place?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-202	Mr President, I would like to As I have said, we have already strengthened terrorist law more than any other government has done. And we have done so in cooperation with the opposition, including the Moderates. The issues of participation crimes and association crimes are included in the latest agreement, which we made in 2017. Then we set up the investigation, and that is the proposal from this particular investigation that we are now working on. It is clear that I would have preferred to have seen things set in motion at the time when it really was raised the most. But again: When I entered Rosenbad in October 2014 there was none of this even beginning t. We had to start from the beginning. It is an incorrect description to say that the only thing that happens is that they are called to a voluntary conversation. If there is information showing that crimes have been committed abroad, the activities of the Swedish Security Service and the police aim to prosecute. You have to look at cases for cases. My firm view is that we should look at whether there are crimes in other countries to which those who have come back, or those who are on the road back, can be tied. In this situation, we know that Swedish courts have a wide-ranging jurisdiction and can judge for crimes committed abroad. That has happened, too. It is an incorrect description to say that the only thing that happens is that they are called to a voluntary conversation. It's the other way around. The Security Service takes these questions very seriously, and they follow you individuals closely. If they can be bound to crime, charges will also be brought.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-206	Mr President, I would like to Louise Meijer has asked the Minister for Home Affairs what measures he intends to take to curb the development of sexual crimes and personal robbery. The work of the government is so distributed that the interpellation has been handed over to me. Of course, it is totally unacceptable that so many women in Sweden, despite decades of gender equality work, are still exposed to everything from gross rapes to unwanted sexual advances from men who do not understand where the boundaries are. This was made visible not least in the Metoo debate and is a frightening example of the fact that we still have a lot of work to do to achieve equality. In recent decades we have seen a continuous increase in the number of reported sexual offences. In the last five years, the self-reported exposure to sexual offences has also increased, according to the National Security Survey of the National Council for Crime Prevention (NTU). There may be several reasons behind the increases, such as an actual increase in crime and changes in legislation. Norm changes and increased awareness in society can also mean that more people are prepared to report various forms of abuse to the police and tell about them in a survey such as the NTU. In order to gain more knowledge about the development of sexual crimes, the Government has commissioned the Crime Prevention Council to highlight the reasons for the increases in both reported crimes and the self-reported vulnerability. The mission will be presented at the end of May. Louise Meijer also deals with personal robbery in her interpellation. As far as personal robbery in Lund is concerned, I know that the Police Authority has carried out several targeted actions. For example, there has been a strengthening of the presence around places exposed to crime and has close cooperation with the municipality and other stakeholders. The efforts of the judiciary to investigate and prosecute perpetrators are, of course, important for both types of crime. The government has taken many measures to increase the possibilities of prosecuting more crimes. We are making a major effort to increase the number of police employees. We have tightened up legislation on sexual and gun crimes. We've raised the minimum penalty for grossly illegal threats and aggravated robbery. We also have a new camera security team that makes it easier for the Police Authority to obtain permission for camera surveillance for law enforcement purposes. In addition, we have set up an investigation that has suggested that the police no longer need to apply for a permit, that is, for camera surveillance. That proposal is now being prepared. The police department has worked for a long time to increase the clearance of sexual crimes. For example, a recent supervision of police and prosecutors' handling of sexual crimes and violence in close relationships has been carried out with the Prosecutor's Office. The police department has also developed a new education for investigators of sexual crimes. The agency now reports more cases to prosecutors both when it comes to rape and when it comes to sexual crimes as a whole. The number of reported rape cases increased by 25 per cent last year. The number of reported sex offences increased by 21 per cent. For many victims, it is of course important that the crime is cleared up, but more importantly, the crime never happens. We cannot therefore focus solely on how to punish the perpetrators once a crime has been committed. We also need to get to the root causes of the crimes. Preventive and norm-changing work, as well as actions that can make people who commit crimes change their behaviour, is crucial. In the area of sexual crimes, some of the most important long-term efforts are made in the field of school and gender equality, for example by combating destructive behaviours and norms among men.
i-UfmFxRgiR46hasWxj7TUAk	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The documentary on Josefin Nilsson's life leaves no one untouched. In the wake of the documentary there has been a discussion about men's violence against women. According to statistics from the Crime Prevention Council, 22 women were murdered by a related man last year. That is the highest figure in many years. The statistics also say that in 2018, 13 400 assault offences were reported against a woman, where the perpetrator and the victim were in close relationship with each other. On average, it's 257 assault crimes a week or 36 a day. Men's violence against women also includes sexual violence. The exposure to sex offences among women has increased from 2.5 per cent in 2006 to 10.7 per cent in 2017. We can also see that while the number of reported rapes has increased by more than 1,500 in ten years, both the proportion and the number that led to prosecutions have decreased. It cannot be described as anything but a political failure. In Lund, the number of reports of sexual harassment has risen in recent years. The number of reported rapes is ten per year. That's ten too many. As a woman, and Lundabo, I know how it feels when places you've previously felt safe become crime scenes. Take, for example, the Northern Cemetery. Just over a year ago, a woman reported that she had been the victim of an assault rape there. I think there are many women like me who now avoid taking the shortcut through the cemetery when it's dark. In recent months, more than just the Northern Cemetery has become crime scenes in Lund. The city park has been a hot spot for the robbery wave in Lund, and between January and February the number of reports of robbery in Lund municipality doubled, fivefold. The statistics for this year up to week 14 show that notifications have doubled compared to the same period in 2018. It has to be said that the police in Lund have done meritorious work. Both Lunda residents and residents of other medium-sized Swedish cities can testify to unsafe development. Many for generations over me tell about how they do not recognize their Sweden, how when they were at my age or younger they could go home in the middle of the night without being worried about sex crimes or personal robbery, how they could meet the postman and ask for a newspaper and at the same time buy the first fresh bun at the bakery. It's not like that anymore. We walk with keys in our hand and with the phone close to our ear. We'd rather talk to someone or pretend we're talking to someone, because that makes us feel safer. Is it really supposed to be like this? Morgan Johansson is on his second period as Minister of Justice. What answers does he give to Lund's residents, girls like guys, who are afraid of being subjected to sexual crimes or personal robbery when they go home from the student party or from training? What does he intend to do to stop development? What are his concrete measures?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-220	Mr President, I would like to Lund is the city I live in every day. I've lived almost 30 years in Lund. It is in Lund that I have my family, and it is in Lund that my children grow up. I mean that I have a good picture of the situation in Lund from many different directions – the school and the police and so on. Lund is basically a safe city. I'd like to say that anyway. It shows security measurements, and it also shows the development of the number of reported crimes. It is clear that one can pull out a crime category and say that there is an increase here, and that in itself is a problem. Louise Meijer is now talking about personal robbery, but she forgets to mention that the number of persons at all-time- high occurred in Lund in 2 011. Then it was a bit over 100 person robberies in Lund. Since then they have gone down. Recently, there have been a number of robberies with alarming developments by a limited group of individuals. There I know that the police in Lund are actively working to arrest and prosecute the perpetrators. I have great confidence in the police's activities in that area. In a broader perspective, in terms of law enforcement in general, in terms of both violent and mugging crimes, but also sexual crimes, it is about continuing to strengthen the police's resources to ensure that you can deliver more but also to strengthen the legislation. We're training twice as many police officers now as the Moderates did in their day. You trained about 600 to 700 police officers a year. We are now up to 1,300 a year. We will have to come up to perhaps 2 000 per year in order to expand the police organisation in the way we want – there will be 10 000 more employees by 2024. We have started new courses in Malmö and Borås. The Moderates have never ever started a new police training program. We started it in Växjö. We started in Umeå. It was we who started in Borås. It was we who started in Malmö. Now, as I said, we need to strengthen police operations. In the coming years, there will be more policemen in the business than they have in many years, and I think that is important. We are strengthening the legislation. The sexual crimes are being addressed. The most important criminal law we implemented last parliamentary term was what is today known as consent law. In addition to moving to a new regulation where what is not voluntary is criminal, which is a clear signal outwards and preventive in itself, we tightened the penalties for, among other things, serious violent crimes. We also linked plaintiffs early in the process so that you get support from the beginning, even when you report the crime. That legislation was opposed by the Moderates for many years. It was investigated twice by the old bourgeois government before the government that I represent succeeded in resolving the issue. Now no one wants to go back. You investigated what has been said twice, but you did not submit any proposals to Parliament. We also see that our efforts are producing results when it comes to sexual crimes. I mentioned in my reply that the number of reported cases to prosecutors has increased by over 20% from one year to another, from 2018 to this year. Of course, we are also investing in increased camera surveillance to ensure that the particularly vulnerable places become places where you can feel safe and to disrupt, for example, various forms of violent crime but also open drug sales. We will have to continue with this, both to tighten up the legislation and to devote more resources to law enforcement, but we are determined to do so.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-232	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice mentions the law of consent. I fought myself hard through all levels of the Party for the Moderates to support it. That is why I am pleased to note that we now have one in place. One of the most important measures to halt the negative trend is more police officers. With more police officers present on our streets, we can both prevent and clear up more crimes. We need 10,000 more police officers by 2024. The government also has that ambition. On the other hand, the government does not seem to have the power or the strength to implement the reform. In March we had 19,868 employees of police officers. When the alliance government, as Morgan Johansson so gladly talks about, handed over in 2014, we had 20,051 police officers. It's a dance with one step forward and two steps backwards. The alliance increased the number of police officers from around 17 500 in 2006 to around 20 000 in 2010, and so it continued until 2014. Of course, the government has more training places. But they don't fill. Police density has fallen since the Social Democratic-led government took over. Despite this, the government says no to a special targeted salary and paid police training. Why? Another measure is security cameras. Prior to the entry into force of the new Camera Protection Act, the Riksdag with the Moderates at its head announced to the government that the police's permit requirement for camera surveillance would be completely abolished. This was overlooked by the government, and the permit requirement remains. Again, one wonders why. Without more policemen and more security cameras, we risk remaining at high levels of insecurity for both boys and girls. However, insecurity affects girls in particular, and as insecurity increases, gender equality is reduced. That is why the issue of security is an issue of equality. Of women aged 20 - 24, 47 percent say that they often worry about rape or other sexual abuse. For men of the same age group, the figure is 3%. In the same age group of women, 42 percent often choose another route or another route. This concern also reflects the actual vulnerability. Among women in the age category 20 - 24, the proportion of victims of sexual offences is 36 per cent. Men who beat women and men who rape women deserve proportionate punishment. The Moderates therefore want to increase the penalty for gross female poverty from nine months in prison to one year in prison and also raise the rape penalty from two years in prison to three years in prison. My third question to the Prime Minister is therefore: why does the feminist government not want to increase the penalty for gross violation of women's rights, and why does it delay raising the penalty for rape?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-241	Mr President, I would like to After all, we Social Democrats too went to elections to raise the penalty for rape of the normal rate from two to three years in prison. We will be able to do that during this term of office, and I am pleased that the Moderates are backing it up. It becomes another part of the tightening up of the view of sexual abuse. Louise Meijer raises a large number of other issues. Let me first say something about men's violence against women and the discussion that followed the documentary on Josefin Nilsson. My reflection is that the most dangerous thing a man can do is join a criminal gang. That is when he is most likely to die as a result of deadly violence. The most dangerous thing a woman can do is live with a violent man. That is what it looks like, and the statistics from last year show just that: in two thirds of all cases where a woman suffered fatal violence, the offender was someone she had or had had a relationship with. So different are the conditions when it comes to threats to the lives of women and men. That is precisely why we have tightened up the legislation as much as we have done. Louise Meijer talks about women's peace legislation. It was a Social Democratic government that produced it 20 years ago. I myself worked in the Government Office at that time and developed women's peace legislation precisely in order to be able to face the situations where women are subjected to many violations, perhaps for a long period of years, by putting it together into a common punishment and thus punishing harder than before. Women's rights legislation has proved to be very effective, but it has been a long way off. The same was the case with the assent legislation, which the moderate-led government, as I said, investigated twice without ever getting to grips with the matter. It was welcome that Louise Meijer worked in her party to get the support for it, but it was very far away. As far as I am concerned, I regard the reform of sexual crimes as the most important criminal justice reform we made in the last parliamentary term – and in fact we did a lot of other things as well. Among other things, we tightened the penalties for serious violent crimes and weapons crimes. But that is absolutely the most important thing, because it sends out the clear signal that all sexuality is based on volunteering and that what is not voluntary is simply a crime. As a result, it also has a preventive effect. I am now watching closely how the district court judges fall out to see that we have actually expanded the criminalised area. What about the police question? I mentioned that we are now training twice as many as the Moderates did in their time. Then Louise Meijer says we have even more seats. Yes, we do. We set off many seats, and we didn't quite manage to fill them all. But the number actually trained and coming out is much higher now than it was in 2014. It's a fact. That is why we now see that every six months more and more police officers come out in the business. Of course, it is important that they benefit the whole country. We will continue; we will reach 10 000 more employees in 2024. As far as the issue of police salaries is concerned, I can only say that there is probably no group where wages are increasing as much as those of police officers. They had an agreement last year of just over 5 percent and recently an agreement of about 5 percent. So the development of the wages of policemen is considerably better in our time than it was in bourgeois times, and I think most people see that. As far as the issue of camera surveillance is concerned, we are continuing to expand. We have made a big breakthrough and now have cameras in a large number of crime-stricken places. We will also go forward with legislative proposals to the Riksdag to remove the police's permit requirements in that part.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-250	Mr President, I would like to It was a good thing that the Social Democrats introduced the criminal harassment of women, grossly, 20 years ago. But you can't just live on old merit. I do not doubt Morgan Johansson's intentions or goals. But it is not good intentions that will break insecurity, bring down sexual crimes and stop personal robbery. Concrete measures are needed. The Moderates want to see a targeted pay bet on the police, a paid police training, the abolition of permit requirements for cameras, stricter penalties for gross female defamation and rape, as well as a restraining order and a zone ban. Either the government does not want to introduce the measures I listed, or they are being delayed. It is the Moderates who drive the government ahead of them when it comes to reforms for law and order in Sweden. Before I wish Morgan Johansson a happy Easter, I would like to take this opportunity to ask: Should the Minister of Justice still take the opportunity to come with me and go to Lund for a night walk?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-254	Mr President, I would like to I just mentioned women's discrimination as an example of how we, on the part of our party, have worked systematically to strengthen the fight against this type of violence. That is not the only example. Sexual crime legislation has been developed gradually. It is not just about some kind of good intentions, but it is actually us who are pushing this forward and doing it for real. The privilege of the opposition is to always, whatever the government does, be able to say: This is a good thing, but it is too little and too late. This is not a really good opposition policy, but when you really agree with what the government is doing, there is not much else to answer but: what the government is doing is good, but it is too little and too late. I am in the position that I must also ensure that the laws we draw up can then work in court – that you can really judge from them. Therefore, legislation cannot always be produced just when it would be needed. Everything must be done as quickly as possible, but all legislation must nevertheless have been prepared and analysed so that one can actually judge from them. Otherwise, I cannot present them, and the courts will not want to apply them. We are moving forward with an expansion of the police. We are implementing the greatest resource reinforcements ever to the police organization. As I said, we train more policemen than we do in many years. We are moving forward with the issue of camera surveillance and licensing and with further measures to ensure that crimes can be investigated and prevented. I am convinced that in our main direction we are quite close to the Moderates on many of these issues. It's just that we're the ones who deliver, in a way that they couldn't do during their reign. I'm sure I'll have the opportunity to also do night walks in Lund in the future. That's what I plan to do this summer.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-260	Mr President, I would like to Per Söderlund has asked me when I intend to present a thorough and thorough proposal on how official activism can be countered. I do not share Per Söderlund's view that officials in the Swedish administration are regularly governed by their own agenda and allow irrelevant consideration to govern decision-making. On the contrary, I have great confidence in the overall responsible management of public administration. In an international comparison, Sweden also stands out very well. Sweden ranks as one of the four countries in the world with the lowest corruption, the highest degree of openness and control of government power and the highest degree of respect for fundamental rights. According to the Constitution, public power is to be exercised under the laws. This principle of law, known as the principle of legality, applies to all public activities. An official in a municipal or state activity is obliged to comply with the legislation in force. The Constitution also follows the so-called principle of objectivity. It states that all those performing public administration functions shall take into account the equality of all persons before the law and respect objectivity and impartiality. In carrying out his or her work, an official may not be guided by his or her own political opinion or the like. He or she shall act without arbitrariness. If you, as a politician, are dissatisfied with the legislation on which the decisions taken by our authorities are based, you have to work to change the law. And an individual who considers a decision taken by an official to be incorrect can, as a general rule, appeal against the decision if it goes against him or her, which guarantees the individual's legal certainty. An individual who considers that an authority has not complied with the rules on impartiality and objectivity may also complain to the Ombudsman or the Chancellor of Justice. During the previous term of office, the Government made changes to the Administrative Act, which provides a basic structure for contacts between authorities and individuals in case handling. A new feature of the law is that the principles of legality and objectivity are expressed through the paragraph that applies to all the activities of an authority. Thus, in their activities, the authorities may only take measures based on the legal order, and they must be objective and impartial. These are not just words on paper, but also a feature of the public administration and its representatives in practice. In conclusion, I have great confidence in those who work in central and local government and in the fact that public administration tasks are carried out in an objective and correct manner.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-269	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice and Migration, for your answer. Unfortunately, I must begin by responding to a false statement in the Minister's reply. Nor is it my view that officials in the Swedish administration are regularly governed by their own agenda and allow irrelevant consideration to govern decision-making. I also have great confidence that our authorities are largely managed in an exemplary manner. On the other hand, it is my view that there are discrepancies, and I find that problematic. It takes a long time to build trust, but it is very fast to destroy it. It is therefore important to overcome even small deviations and to do so as soon as possible so that authorities, or parts of authorities for that matter, do not suffer from a loss of confidence. In report 2017/ 18:KU37, the Constitutional Committee adopted its position that a review of the legislation on misconduct should be carried out, with the aim of extending the area of criminality. The proposal was debated and decided in this House on 18 April 2018, that is, almost a year ago. The position did not concern previous administrative law but was about tightening up the existing law. My question was, in fact, how the investigation is progressing or whether it has even begun. Of course, if officials are activists, that is very problematic. You can easily see that it can affect many people in their daily lives. Perhaps when processing and granting a building permit, instead of the application being handled on the basis of the laws in force, there can be unreasonable environmental requirements because an official has his own view of environmental issues. Perhaps a restaurant owner will be refused an application for a permit for release because the handling official has personal views on alcohol serving. Perhaps someone gets their application for an arms license rejected because an activist administrator makes his own assessment of the matter based on his own opinion, instead of following the laws that the Riksdag has decided on. The list of problems that may arise with activist officials can be made very long. Today, administrative law and other mechanisms are in place to guarantee citizens fair treatment from public authorities. However, this does not prevent the authorities from repeating their errors over and over again, as sanctions cannot normally be imposed on either the authority or the case officer. Unpolitical and impartial officials are a prerequisite for citizens to be able to rely on the actions and opinions of authorities in various cases. I therefore think it is urgent to address this problem, and I wonder when the Minister intends to present a full and thorough proposal on how official activism can be combated, in accordance with Parliament's previous decisions.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-277	Madam President, I would like I think that Per Söderlund started his speech well, when he backed away a little and said that he does not mean that there is some kind of public official activism. On the other hand, he said that there are deviations to which attention must be paid. I can agree with that. Later in the post, however, he radars examples. He believes that officials who do not like alcohol may view alcohol as different, and he talks about gun licenses. In the vast majority of cases, decisions can be appealed, and then it will be a court that decides. And if you feel unfairly treated by an authority, you have both the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice at your disposal. It is by no means my view that this is a common occurrence, but I understand that the report to which Per Söderlund refers is intended to try to spread general distrust of officials and the administration. I do not want to contribute to that, and I am certainly not in the picture. Rather, I would say that Sweden has a long and proud tradition of officials. It was founded at Axel Oxenstierna's time in the 17th century on the basis that the impartial and objective official should work under the laws and should also be able to work regardless of the political orientation of the municipality, the state or the Government Office. We do not have an American spoil system, which means replacing the entire civil service if you change government. Rather, it is the opposite: you should be able to work regardless of government. By now, I have experienced at least two changes of government and worked closely with the Government Office for nearly 20 years. I have both taken up office and resigned as a minister of state. My experience is that the state administration functions as intended. We have officials who work well and are objective, no matter who is in charge. I certainly do not share the view that there is some kind of general activism. Moreover, as I also point out in the answer, our administration is almost unique in the sense that it appears to be very little exposed to various forms of corruption. It's hugely important. In all measurements, year after year, decade after decade, Sweden qualifies among the countries with the least problems with corruption. We are one of the world's least corrupt countries according to all measurements. I do not therefore share the image that Per Söderlund expresses in his interpellation. Then, of course, in every situation, you can remove a single question – an individual application that you are not satisfied with – and then you can spread a picture based on the fact that you yourself have been turned down on your application for a building permit or something else because some official thought differently. However, my assessment is that we have the necessary safeguards to ensure that there is a right course and to prevent possible deviations. On this issue of misconduct, I would like to say that it is a year since the announcement came. During that year we have been deposed as a government for almost six months and have not been able to act, but it is clear that we are also working on this issue.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-287	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice and Migration for your answers. It's nice to hear you're working in this area anyway. I would also like to point out once again that there is no general activism either. But there are certain deviations, as I said earlier, and that is problematic. In addition to the obvious risk of distrust of authorities, there are also examples of government activism that affects individuals quite severely, both with hassle and with financial consequences. It has happened that authorities have conducted cases all the way to the Supreme Administrative Court, sometimes with high costs for the individual, despite the fact that the authority has lost similar cases in the administrative court in the past. A known goal recently is the so-called Tikka case, which has caused agitated emotions among the country's hunters and sportsmen. In that case, the Police Authority has appealed against the judgments of both the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court of Appeal. The process has to date cost the individual more than SEK 100 000, despite the fact that the case has not been settled. It is not reasonable for public authorities' own interpretations of laws to lead to high costs for individuals. The basis of this case is that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has taken over the responsibility to assess the suitability of a weapon for hunting, something that the Police Authority should not do. The authorities have a huge advantage over the individual through their economic strength. The Tikka case and other similar cases have seriously damaged the confidence in the Polis Authority's handling of licence applications by the country's hunters and sportsmen. And believe me, those discussions are constantly going on. Although the mistrust does not apply to the whole authority, it is sad that it risks spreading to the whole authority. That would be a very boring development. This is an example of several. There are other cases concerning, in particular, the Police Authority and the licensing process. Although the circumstances can be discussed, I think it is important for us in Parliament to do what we can to counter this trend to increase mistrust of our authorities, because it risks undermining citizens' confidence even more. It would be an unfortunate development which, unfortunately, has already begun to some extent. That is why I think that the revision of the legislation on misconduct should take place. It's good to hear that work is going on. This is what was the basis of my interpellation.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-294	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Söderlund, for the clarification! Per Söderlund therefore believes that general activism does not occur. That is an important clarification, I think. Then I have explained what the time is and what opportunities you have. The basis is the principle of legality, as Chapter 1. Section 1. Government: All public power is exercised under the laws. It is this that is the steering oar for everyone who works in government. Then there are a lot of control possibilities. Virtually all administrative decisions, or in any case very large parts of them, can be appealed. In the end, then, it is courts that decide on how to interpret the law. If you, as a politician, want to change the interpretation and are dissatisfied with how practice develops, you have to take the initiative to change the legislation itself. If you, as an individual, feel unfairly treated by authorities, there are both the Ombudsman for Justice and the Chancellor for Justice to turn to. The Institute of Parliamentary Ombudsman is also an important Swedish contribution to international political science. It was during the period of freedom in the 18th century that that institution was formed, precisely as an instrument for ordinary citizens to complain about the administrative decisions that were taken and also to have the opportunity to get right at the end of the day. It has been taken after by many other countries. We also have unique elements in our administrative tradition as a result of press and freedom of expression legislation, including the principle of public access and the protection of communications, which also helps to maintain the legitimacy of the system as such. This means, for example, that tendencies towards corruption in Sweden are revealed at a much earlier stage than is the case in many other countries. Per Söderlund gives an individual example of an arms case. I understand that the police have not wanted to grant permission for a special weapon. If I understand correctly, it's called Benelli MR1 caliber.223 Remington. I think that is the subject on which he refers. There a licence had been applied for to use it for hunting, and that application was rejected. It was considered that the weapon was not of a civilian type, and it had not originally been designed for hunting. The police also argued that there was a significant fire overcapacity in relation to what was required in hunting. It was therefore a weapon that was meant not to fall within the framework of existing legislation. As usual, such matters may take their course. In the end, it is the courts that will decide where the boundaries should be in individual assessments. If you are not satisfied with the outcome, you must take the initiative to amend the law. But I hope that Per Söderlund does not claim that this matter has been created because of some kind of public official activism, because if so, it is a rather serious accusation.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-302	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister once again for the answers. I, too, trust the control bodies. However, it is problematic when an authority receives a decision against it from the administrative court, which has been appealed quite far up in the administrative law organisation, and yet makes similar decisions several times in a row. Thus, despite the guidance of the Administrative Court, the same line is being pursued. That goal I was thinking about was the so-called Tikka case, but it is clear that there are more because Morgan Johansson mentions another example. I do not think it is a widespread activism, but we see, as I said, that in the same decision there is a return despite the fact that there is a legal interpretation from the Administrative Court. It is strange that one persists in making the same decision even though it has been pointed out that it is not the right decision to make. This has created great distrust of police weapons management among affected hunters and shooters. It's boring because the police are generally doing a good job. Although this varies between the police regions, in general it is doing well, as I would like to say. It seems to me that we think about the same thing when it comes to the importance of the authorities taking the right decisions, which I am pleased about. I, too, would like to conclude by wishing the Minister happy Easter, because it will soon be here. I hope it'll be nice!
i-862ea470fb8cff03-309	Madam President, I would like I didn't really know which target was intended. This was an example given to me by my officials and could possibly be, for which it was not apparent from the interpellation. The target I was talking about was weapons that have a large overcapacity in relation to what you need for hunting and which can also be loaded with military ammunition and rather large warehouses. The police are then allowed to assess whether the weapon is suitable for hunting or not, and if they have different opinions, it will ultimately go all the way up to court. As far as the Tikka case is concerned, I am able to obtain information, but the important point is that we cannot stand in the Chamber and accuse individual officials of the activism of officials in these individual cases. Doing so is pretty serious. Per Söderlund has now said that there is no public official activism, and that is a good thing. I believe that we agree on the control possibilities available to the Ombudsman and that the appeal possibilities are also good. As regards the announcement by the Constitutional Committee, we will analyse further what to do. As far as we understand, the KU does not want to go back to the old regulation, but it is something new and more modern one is looking for. The process is going on as I said, and we'll see what it lands in. I wish Per Söderlund a happy and good Easter next week.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-315	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me whether I will take any steps to limit unofficial marriages. He has also asked me whether I intend to act to make marriage with children in Sweden punishable. In recent years, the government has decided on a number of measures and missions aimed at strengthening protection against forced marriages, child marriages and polygamy and against honour-related crime. I do not agree with Mikael Eskilandersson that the investigations have primarily been about preventing such marriages from being registered in the Swedish Tax Agency's population register. On the contrary, the government's appropriations have been broad. We have repeatedly stressed that the issues are complex and need to be addressed on several levels, not only through civil and criminal law, but also through, for example, increased knowledge of the relevant authorities. Since 2014, there has been a special penal provision in the Penal Code on forced marriage, which means that it is punishable by unlawful coercion or exploitation of a vulnerable situation to induce a person to enter into a marriage or a marriage-like relationship. The penalty thus focuses not only on legally valid marriages but also on marriagelike relationships, the so - called informal marriages. Such a marriage may be perceived as at least as binding or binding as a marriage in the legal sense, and it may affect the victim as if it had been a legally valid marriage. It should not be possible to circumvent legislation by allowing marriage to be concluded in such a way that it does not become legally binding. Child marriage is to a large extent a forced marriage problem. The provision on forced marriage has been drafted with this in mind. Among other things, the introduction of the penal provision on forced marriage has significantly strengthened protection against forced and child marriages. Last autumn, I also received the final report on the investigation into stronger protection against child marriages, forced marriages and crimes of honour. The investigation has suggested, among other things, the introduction of a specific penal provision on child marriage. As with the penal provision on forced marriage, the child insurance offence is proposed to cover the marriage-like relationship. The report is currently in the process of being consulted, and the period of referral expires on 28 May 2019. There should be no doubt as to where the government stands in respect of honour-related violence and repression, regardless of the form it takes. This is a serious social problem on which the government has been investing a great deal of resources for several years and on which we will continue to work.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-321	Madam President, I would like I thank Morgan Johansson for his answer. Morgan Johansson disagrees with me in the description that the government's focus has been on preventing registrations of child marriages rather than preventing children from being subjected to child marriage. But the fact is that the government has not allowed any investigation to look at how to prevent unofficial child marriages in Sweden. The previous child marriage investigation, where I myself was in the political reference group, was not allowed, according to government guidelines, to look at unofficial child marriages. It was, therefore, the study that presented the final report on enhanced protection against honour-related b rottslighe t. The new study on polygamy, for which I am also a member of the reference group, is also prevented from discussing or making proposals concerning unofficial marriages. I am absolutely convinced that if you really want to get to child marriages and polygamy for real, you cannot just focus on those who are approved in our registers. We must, of course, put an end to all child marriages if we are to achieve results. I would therefore urge the government to stop excluding unofficial marriages when making investigations. It would be better to identify unofficial marriages as particularly interesting to attack, if possible. Furthermore, Morgan Johansson refers to forced marriage since 2014 as a crime. This is intended to protect against child marriage, but it does not in reality, outside the Chamber and outside the Riksdag. The number of convictions for forced marriage in Sweden each year can be counted on the fingers of a sawmill worker. These individual judgments are also generally the result of strong young girls themselves seeking the support of the authorities to avoid being married. Moreover, in the judges the penalty is very low, and if a girl manages to escape before the mandatory rape during the wedding night, the penalty will even be conditional. So it was not even a real prison sentence for the parents who made an agreement on the then 13-year-old girl. The prospective husband, who proposed the agreement with the parents, was completely exonerated. I know that Morgan Johansson, as a minister, is not allowed to comment on individual cases, but the penalties imposed are usually always below the minimum penalty for rape, for example, which is two years' imprisonment and, according to a announcement this week, is to be raised to three years' imprisonment. For example, a grandmother and an aunt who were fully convicted of forced marriage by a 16-year-old girl received a year and nine months and paid 120 000 in damages. The Minister cannot be happy with these low penalties and, above all, they are hardly dissuasive. Even if the Minister is not allowed to comment on individual cases, the Minister may speak on groups in society. In 2016, the Finnish Immigration Service identified 132 children who were married in Sweden. I wonder a lot about what has happened to this group, to which I hope the Minister will be able to respond. After all, the legislation on forced marriage would greatly strengthen the protection of children's marriages. I wonder: How many of these children's parents or spouses have been charged with forced marriage? And how many of these marriages have now been abolished in practice, where the girls have been moved to foster parents?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-334	Madam President, I would like I do not know if there is any kind of fundamental misunderstanding here. Mikael Eskilandersson is completely wrong in the basic premise when he claims that the penalties and legal provisions that we now have do not meet unofficial marriages. That is exactly what I say in my answer: they do. These are both legally valid marriages and what they call marriagelike relationships. It says in the answer about these so-called informal marriages. If Mikael Eskilandersson has followed these processes as closely as he says for a few years, he must know that the very basic premise of the interpellation seems to be wrong. The penalty that we have drawn up also includes unofficial marriages. That is simply the case. When it comes to punishment, it can give you four years in prison. Then we will see if further tightening needs to be done in this. That is exactly why we set up an investigation a couple of years ago to review the legislation again. This has already produced results. We asked an investigator to look at closing the gap in child marriage. We did this last year in new legislation that does not recognise children's marriages when they have been concluded in other countries and then they come here. This gap has been closed since last year. The investigator also proposes a change in the nature of the legislation itself, i.e. what should be fulfilled. Today it has to be demonstrated that there has been an illegal coercion or that the person has been in a particularly vulnerable situation. That's when you can judge responsibility. Now, instead, the investigator suggests that this should be turned down and that it should suffice to have led someone to enter into such a marriage or allowed it to happen, knowing as it were. Then you should also be able to judge responsibility. We are, of course, also working on that report, but basically, both for the old crime and for the new crime, both legally binding marriages and so-called informal marriages are actually covered by the legislation. I am sorry, Madam President, but it seems that Mikael Eskilandersson is wrong about the basic issue. I think he's misunderstood how the penalty is actually designed.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-339	Madam President, I would like If this were the way Morgan Johansson stands here and claims that the legislation on forced marriage meets unofficial marriages with children and that it helps protect children from unofficial marriages, I still wonder about the 132 children. As far as I know, not one of these cases has led to forced marriage and to court proceedings. I may be wrong about this. It may have slipped by somewhere, because I don't know who the 132 are. But I have not noted that there have been 132 judgments on forced marriage. In 2016 they actually found 132 children in Sweden who were married, and then one should of course act against it. If we can now act against this on the basis of existing legislation on forced marriage, I do not understand why we have not done so. Then the question is which one of us is really wrong out there. It may be that I have missed the court proceedings surrounding the 132 children. That would be a very big mistake on my part in that case because there must be quite a lot of court proceedings. The marriage law that was enforced last autumn and started on 1 January 2019 when it came to registering child marriages excluded the entire group of children who were married before. It took effect on 1 January. Those who were children in Sweden on 1 January and were married were not included in the law, because it was only new children's marriages that could not be registered anymore. And it was really just a ban on registering them as married. You talk about not having retroactive legislation, which I find a little strange. I think that you can set a date and that on this date you should cancel all child marriages, in the same way as you did with child marriage. A date was set, and from that date no one was allowed to beat their children. You can do exactly the same with child marriage and say that from that date no one is allowed to be married to a child, end of story. For me, there's no big difference. There have probably been more children here between 2016 and 1 January 2019 who have been married, so the number is probably higher than 132. But we see very few judgments on forced marriage.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-345	Madam President, I would like The legislation covers both legally binding marriages and marital relationships. That's how it is. This is clearly expressed in both legislation and preparatory work, and this should be known to Mikael Eskilandersson, if he has now followed this process. We are not in a position to implement retroactive legislation in Sweden. It is not only in Sweden, but it is a general legal principle that applies internationally. It criminalises an act from the date of entry into force of the law itself, and then it is acts that take place thereafter that are criminalised. This is expressed not only in international law, but also clearly in the form of the Swedish government. You can't make laws retroactively. Mikael Eskilandersson may find that odd, but he too is reasonably bound by the Swedish government form and the constitution. As I said, we are doing a review now. Mikael Eskilandersson asked why there are no more judgments. This may be because the legislation produced by the old bourgeois government in 2014 and which came into force on 1 July has props or requirements that are too high. Even when this went through, we Social Democrats said that we wanted to follow this and evaluate the legislation after a year or two to see if it is working properly. If we do not think that the legislation is working properly, we are prepared to tighten it up. That is why we initiated the review that has now been carried out. There is a proposal to write down the props so that you no longer have to show illegal coercion or that the person is in a particularly vulnerable situation, but it is enough to have moved someone to this and allowed it to happen. The proposal is out for a referral, and we will work on it. My determination is that we should fight child marriage and forced marriages, which are often an expression of honour. We cannot put our fingers between criminal law. But there are documents after the legislation was drawn up that can be criminalised, no others.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-350	Madam President, I would like Of course, if you are going to stop child marriage for real, you have to start by making it illegal, with a heavy penalty to try to go around the law. The fact that this does not exist today is tragic. Even countries like Gambia have a clear criminal responsibility for those parents who have their daughter married away, which they introduced in 2016, i.e. the same year that the Migration Agency found 132 married children in Sweden, of which 65 in Malmö. 132 children were identified as married and were left to their fate in practice by the government that is now sitting. The government does not know what has happened to them and does not consider itself to have any greater responsibility. At least I don't get an answer from Morgan Johansson about what happened to these 132 children. The law of forced marriage, which provides protection for these children, gives them no protection. As far as I can see, there is not a single case among the 132 children who have been identified that have led to prosecution, although all should have led to prosecution if now the law on forced marriage provides protection against child marriage in Sweden. Surely the government does not believe that 14-year-olds of different origin than Swedish have a greater tendency to fall in love with and want to marry older men than Swedish 14-year-olds have? However, I am in favour of Morgan Johansson saying that he wants to fight child marriage and that there is more legislation in the pipeline. It is, however, tragic that so many years have passed and that we have had so many debates in this House without having had legislation so far that actually forbids being married to a child.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-353	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is forbidden to enter into this type of marriage. We have legislation in place since 2014 on this. If you force someone to marry in this way, you can also be punished for it, and the penalty scale for this goes up to four years in prison. It is therefore wrong to say that this is in some way permissible. It has been criminalised and banned since 2014. We Social Democrats were already concerned when the bourgeois government drew up this legislation to say that we should look at how this really falls into practice in a few years' time. Then we are prepared to review whether further changes and adjustments are to be made to the legislation. It is at this point that we are right now. We have a new basis that we are looking at right now and that we could go forward with and which is now out for a referral. Of course, you can always complain and say: Why isn't this done before? But the very point of political activity is that you see a problem that you then want to do something about. Humanity is sometimes divided into two parts: one that really does things, and the other that stands by and complains about those who do things. We will live with this for a long time to come as long as the situation looks as it does. Again, legislation covers both legally binding marriages and so-called informal marriages. There is no doubt whatsoever about that interpretation.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-359	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me when legislation is coming in place that will enable paternity to be registered earlier than today. It is important that parental law is developed in line with society in general and with the best interests of the child in focus. Being a parent is an important part of life for many people, and legislation needs to be designed so that it can handle different ways of having a child and starting a family. The government is therefore actively working in this area. The Government decided in March 2017 to set up the investigation into paternity and parenthood, which included proposals on how the rules on confirmation of paternity and parenthood for unmarried people can be modernised and simplified. The study submitted its report last August. The report proposes, among other things, that it should be possible to confirm a paternity or parenthood electronically within 14 days of the child's birth. The investigation has considered an extended possibility of confirmation before the birth of the child, including in maternity care, but considered that such a regime should not be introduced. The report has been referred, and the period of referral has recently expired. The report is now being prepared in the Government Office.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-362	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank Morgan Johansson for this answer. Of course, we share the view that the best interests of the child should always be in focus. I note, however, that the Minister does not give any clear information as to whether it will be possible to establish paternity before the birth of the child. I would like to remind Morgan Johansson of the announcements that the Riksdag has sent to the Government about this and that it is a system that the Riksdag has said it wants. A united civil committee – i.e. the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party – first made an announcement at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, calling for a more equal parenthood where the mother and the father are on equal terms even before the baby is born. This week another announcement has been made. Morgan Johansson refers to the investigation's assessment that paternity should not be confirmed before the child's birth. I would like to briefly explain what the investigation really says, namely: One reason for today's order is that in some cases it is only after the child has been born that it is clear that, for example, the man who has believed himself to be a father is not. The need for a legal genetic examination can thus arise only after the child has been born. A basic condition for determining paternity is that the child is born alive. Against this background, the investigation considers that it is not appropriate to introduce an option for the Social Welfare Board to approve a confirmation submitted before the birth of the child. I do not agree at all with the investigation into this. First of all, the investigation says that it is only after a child is born that it is clear that a man who has believed himself to be a father is not. I wonder how often it actually occurs. It must be extremely rare for someone who thinks he is a father, looks at the child who has just been born and says: No, I am not the father of this child. The investigation then says that the need for a legal genetic examination can arise only after the child has been born. Yes, then this need may arise. But this need may arise two three years later too. There's really no difference. It can occur ten years later too. When it comes to children who are born with the wrong father, so to speak, where someone else is believed to be a father, it is not always discovered at birth. It's probably a very small risk that you'd discover it when you see the baby. Nor is it true that a basic condition for determining paternity is that the child is born alive. It is perfectly possible to determine who is the father of a dead child, too, if you would like to do so. However, there is little reason to do so; that is another matter. Of course, it can also be done on the remains of a dead child, thus determining who was actually the father of the child. I do not see, therefore, that the investigation has pinpointed very well what we from the Committee on Civil Liberties wanted earlier and what we still want. What we are saying in the new announcement may I come back to in my next speech. But we are actually saying that we want the government to consider the introduction of a paternity confirmation prior to the birth of the child.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-375	Madam President, I would like First, perhaps I should say something about the process. The first announcement was made in 2016, and it was to investigate how we could modernise and simplify this procedure. In 2017, we appointed the investigation. In 2018, the results of the investigation were received. The report has since been consulted for three months. The government was deposed throughout the autumn and could not take any new initiatives in this regard. Now it's 2019, and we're working on it. I don't think it can go much faster when you make new laws. That's what it looks like. The present proposal is about simplifying and modernising. You should be able to register electronically directly. In practice, it should be possible to do so on the day the child is born. It could even happen with some kind of app. We've joked a little bit that one can be called the cardboard. But at any time within 14 days of the child's birth, you should simply be able to register as a father. I see in my view that legislation on this will be able to come into place during this term of office. But then comes the objection: Why not do it earlier? Mikael Eskilandersson has explained some of the motives in the investigation, and of course we look at them and analyse them. Another complication that should be raised in this is that the registers should – I think – be built up on the child's personal identity number, i.e. that the child is registered with the mother and the father. If you are going to do so before the child's birth, you must instead keep the register on the mother's social security number, and it becomes considerably more complicated and difficult, I would say. The child simply does not receive a social security number until the day he or she is born. It's a complication that the investigation highlights. We continue to prepare these questions, but I am, of course, prepared to deliver what Parliament has originally wanted, that is to say, the modernisation and simplification of the system.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-379	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson recalls that in the first announcement it was about modernising and simplifying, but then I would like to remind Morgan Johansson of the debate behind it and what motions were considered to have been partially answered in the announcement that came. The debate was much about the Norwegian system as a model. In Norway, legislation had been introduced that allows paternity to be registered before the child is born, and that parents have joint custody when the child is born if paternity has been registered previously. So it is not just about modernising and simplifying as words, but there was a thought behind them. Among the motions that were considered partially approved were motions from virtually all parties, including the Social Democrats, that paternity should be registered before the child's birth. Today it is possible to register paternity with social services in some municipalities, or at least in some counties, before the birth of the child – but it is counted first from the birth of the child. So you can fill in the papers before, I understand. It is a little doubtful whether it actually complies with the rules or not, which is something that is also raised in the civil committee's basis. The vast majority who have children do so together, and they want to do so together. The pregnancy itself naturally occurs together, but in addition to that it has usually been planned. This also usually applies to people who live together. One problem is that so few choose to marry; if more people had chosen to marry, they would have received the automatic presumption that we would actually like to have even for children born in cohabitation if the father is known and has given his consent before the baby is born. What is stated in the new announcement is that the committee welcomes the investigation's proposal and believes that the government should give priority to the further investigation of the proposals so that legislative change can enter into force as soon as possible. At the same time, the government should consider some further modernisation of the rules. The committee notes in that part that the investigation makes the assessment that it should not be possible to provide an electronic confirmation before the child's birth. The committee believes that the government should consider further whether such a possibility should nevertheless be introduced. This writing is rather downgraded compared to how it was originally meant to be written as a reservation. The Swedish Democrats had a reservation to the same point when we dealt with this, because we want to go much further, but we were quite agreed on the last piece – that the government should nevertheless look at whether it is not possible to give confirmation before the child's birth. If you now create that possibility, in an app or so, what does it matter if the confirmation is made one day or the other? It should still be possible to connect to the child, if nothing else. Even if the child is not born, it must be in some form of health care records, and it should be possible to link the child to the parent. It should therefore be possible to solve it, although I can understand that it makes technical sense that it cannot be linked to the child's personal identity number because the child has not yet been given anything. It should still have some kind of handling number as pregnancy, you might think, but maybe it doesn't. Actually, I'm not that familiar with those issues.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-386	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is not the debate or the motions that govern what the government should do and not do when it comes to announcements, but it is the parliamentary decision as such. That is what is stated in the announcement we have to take into account when setting up investigations. As I said, in the announcement we took action on, the wording is that Parliament wanted to see a modernisation and simplification of the possibility of recognising paternity. That is precisely why we set up a study with this focus, which has thus gone through these systems and considered different solutions. It comes up with the solution it wants to see, namely the possibility of electronic registration within 14 days of the child's birth. Then, as I said, there is the possibility of doing so even before birth, within the framework of current legislation, but then we have the various forms of special rules. If we're going to have a whole new system where you're going to register paternity before the baby is born-- where it's supposed to be the norm-- it's going to have pretty far-reaching consequences for how we set up our records. In fact, I am not sure what problem the Swedish Democrats really want to solve. Is it some kind of general belief that one must be able to register as a father during pregnancy? I have three children, and we weren't married. So I have left paternity confirmations, and I have to say that this is not something that is perceived as a major concern among the general public. Nevertheless, I think that should be taken as a starting point. It will be much easier if we carry out what is proposed in the investigation. Mikael Eskilandersson reads in the report that is apparently just under way and talks about how to consider this. When we arrive at a concrete proposal, we will have to anchor it in the usual order so that we have a majority in Parliament behind us before presenting it. Should we have concerns about this, we will have to take it from there, but one must nevertheless have respect for the fact that the investigation has been going through these issues for a long time. Thus, the balances are probably quite well-motivated, and therefore there are probably quite strong reasons for going in the direction that Mikael Eskilandersson wants.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-391	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson has thus gone through this, and Morgan Johansson may not have found it so difficult to have to answer the questions. But Morgan Johansson's woman, with whom he probably had children, may have felt it offensive to have to talk about who she had had sexual relations with for a certain time.
i-1e2569be9820f5d3-0	But stop! ) That's what you actually ask. One asks: Is there another possible father? That question is asked. That question was also answered by my wife – she is now my wife but was not my wife then. I don't know if I think it's the perfect thing. In addition, this is determined on average 30 days after the baby has been born. We know that this causes concern today when mothers die during childbirth. Then the father is not registered, and then there is really no one who automatically takes care of the child. In addition, this is about the image of who the father is. In our dream society, when you come to the maternity clinic and find out about your pregnancy, you would fill in that you are a father. The couple often come together. After that, one would be present as an equal parent throughout the pregnancy. That's about the system you have in Norway. When the child is born, the couple will automatically have joint custody instead of the mother receiving sole custody, as is the case today. There's actually a big difference. For me it would be a modernisation of our legislation, but I understand that the government has read quite different things into what is modern legislation on children.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-396	Madam President, I would like We have gone to the announcement made by the Parliament, which wanted to see modernisation and simplification. That's exactly why we're setting up the investigation. The issue raised by Mikael Eskilandersson at the end does not matter when determining paternity. In the end, however, the issue must be resolved. It doesn't matter if you do it during pregnancy or after pregnancy, so that argument doesn't hold up at all, I think. We will of course have to continue working on the proposal that exists, and when we arrive at a concrete proposal we will go to Parliament with it. I do not think we have been able to show strong enough arguments for us to go the way that Mikael Eskilandersson wants. Then, of course, we will continue to have a dialogue with Parliament on this.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-400	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I view Sports Sweden's opportunities to conduct elite activities for young people without these young people and students being able to combine elite efforts with studies. The interpellant asks me even if I intend to act to save Sports Sweden from a massive involuntary drop-out among elite athletes. Let me say that these issues are closely linked to education policy. I would like to refer to the previous discussion of interpellation 2018/ 19:49, where Alexandra Anstrell also participated in the debate with Minister of Education Anna Ekström earlier this year. Let me be clear: the Government's ambition remains that it should, of course, continue to be possible for elite sports young people to combine elite efforts with upper secondary education. I look forward to discussing this further.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-403	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If the Government's ambition is that it should continue to be possible for elite sports young people to combine elite efforts with upper secondary education, I wonder whether the Government intends to act in some way or to do as the Minister of Education and just follow the matter. Now I know that at least four schools have NIU with a focus on equestrian sports that have had a knock-on effect – however, it can also apply to schools with a focus on other sports. They have had impact because the students at NIU must have access to their own elite horse or have the horse installed at school or similar, which is not considered compatible with a free schooling. But if the school were to provide a horse, or for that matter, for free, it would be even more unfair than anything else. For example, if a school in Jämtland, where I grew up, with a focus on ski sports, were to provide free skis, this would also be completely baroque. Think of everyone who doesn't get any skis or who can't even go there because they're not good enough. Madam President, I would like For me, it's a mystery how to solve a problem by just following a case. Sport is an important part of life for many children and young people. Nearly 90 per cent of all young people and children in Sweden have been involved in a sports association during their childhood. Children's and youth sports are the core activities of the sports movement. Sports youths have better self-esteem, commit fewer crimes and drink less alcohol than their peers who are not involved in sports clubs. More movement in school also provides better school grades. The school inspectorate's decision risks becoming a precedent for all gymnasiums. All sports are therefore in danger, because no elite sport education is really free. Even at the time of admission to school, you need such good skills in your own sport that you can hardly get there without your own equipment. Madam President, I would like I find it extremely positive that young people and students can combine studies and elite sports. It is difficult to practice riding, skiing or bandy without horses, skis or clubs. We should do what we can to simplify – not make it more difficult – such arrangements. Madam President, I would like I asked two questions in my interpellation. One I feel that I got an answer to, that is to say that it should be possible to combine school with elite investment. However, I did not get an answer on how to do it. My second question was whether the Government intends to act to save Sports Sweden from a massive involuntary drop-out among elite athletes. I would like an answer to that today.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-414	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me give you a picture of the role played by sports policy in the activities of sports gymnasiums. The state has taken on a special responsibility for special sports at national sports gymnasies, so-called RIG, which means that the National Sports Federation has a mission to propose to the National Agency for Education which municipalities, individual principals and sports may organise RIGs and the number of student seats for each RIG. In addition, the Swedish Sports Federation has the task of distributing state grants for the activities and of monitoring and evaluating the quality of these programmes. Then it is the Swedish National Agency for Education that has overall responsibility for all upper secondary education, including the special sports subject, and that finally approves which principals and sports become organisers of RIG. This system also gives special sports associations the right to develop and monitor the activities, the employment of special sports teachers and the admission process in collaboration with the principal. Pupils are covered by the intermunicipal allowance. To complement study activities and support students' ambition to combine upper secondary education with high-level sport, this year the state, in addition to the grant Support for Sport, provides 43 million to the Swedish Sports Federation for this special sport activity at RIG. With this, I would like to emphasise that it is important to have opportunities for studies and an elite sport venture at the same time – that is, for dual careers. This is a very relevant issue for many children and young people who want to invest in their sport and yet have the opportunity to complete upper secondary education and take with them what this means. It is necessary in today's society to be able to do well in life and to get a job and be able to participate in society as an active citizen of society. Of course, I and the government want this opportunity to be available to all students, including those who want to invest in elite sports. It is not just about getting an income but also about a context and self-esteem that is not only dependent on one's physical capacity as an active athlete. It is about having completed one's possible elite sports career having a good education basically to fall back on. We must also realise, of course, that everyone who attends sports gymnasiums will not be able to live on their sport, so this is an important issue. It remains the case that the individual decision taken by the National Board of Education on this matter is not something on which I, as Minister of State or Minister of Education, have to make a statement. However, we agree that this is an important issue and that we obviously need to ensure that it is possible to combine elite athletes with upper secondary education.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-420	Madam President, I would like If you intend something to work in a certain way and if you think this is important but it doesn't work, then you need to do something about it. A healthy soul in a healthy body has long been the stick of sport. It is a sticker that also supports research, not least in the field of children's and young people's sports. We know that children and young people's health is better among sportsmen. We also know that completing schooling is the best prerequisite for the future success of young people's lives. Previous positive experiences of exercise and sport are also of great importance for the more physically active even later in life. Therefore, exercise habits among children and young people affect not only their well-being right now, but also their future health. It is reported that the number of 13 to 15-year-old girls and boys in Sweden who are mentally ill has almost doubled since the mid-1980s. We can also see that the so-called health gap between people in Sweden is increasing. An example of this is life expectancy, which can distinguish several years depending on just which part of Stockholm you live in. Working on public health is important, and sport is a major part of this. We know that public health work is important and that health promotion and prevention are crucial to improving public health. In 2018, the Riksdag, in this Assembly, adopted a renewed public health policy objective with a clearer focus on equal health: creating social conditions for good and equal health throughout the population. I think that this is a bad thing about young people not being able to practise their sport at the same time as they attend their upper secondary education. The subject of special sports sets the goal that students should have reached the elite level when they leave education. The National Agency of Education says it should be free of charge, because we've said that in the school law. I understand that the Government cannot be involved in the School Inspectorate's inspections and when they make their decisions, but they do so on the basis of the legislation in force. Does the Government mean that in the future we should only have RIG and not NIU? I ask the question because what you are arguing for is RIG. Instead, I think we should create opportunities to carry out public health policy work at all levels and also in all policy areas in order to bring about a real change in unequal health. Doesn't the government think so?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-428	Madam President, I would like No, it was not my intention to make it appear that way, but rather to give a description of what sports policy responsibility looks like today regarding what the National Sports Federation does, what the Ministry of Culture's responsibility is and what lies at the National Agency for Education and Education. There is no dividing line between us in our view of the importance of sport at large, elite sport, sport for public health and also the opportunity for children and young people who want to invest in their elite sport to combine this with upper secondary education. There I and the Minister for Education Anna Ekström are aware of the problem raised by Alexandra Anstrell here. It is important, once again, to say that the individual decision is not something that I can or should not comment on. However, as Minister for Education Anna Ekström has also emphasised, we are following this issue. It is important to ensure that those students who want elite sports also have the opportunity to attend high school. That is a common ambition we have. I don't see any dividing lines there. Elite sport in general is and can be fantastic. During the spring, I have been able to follow the Alpine World Championships in Åre and the World Skiing Championships in Östersund, to name a few. The efforts behind each such achievement are, of course, at the limit of what is possible for everyone. It takes a hard bet, of course. Many elite athletes are role models, not least for children and young people who see it possible to go from dream to reality through their role models. It also inspires movement in everyday life and to outdoor sport. These are two things that are really connected and that we should both promote. Sport policy and support for sport, such as Alexandra Anstrell, public health as an objective. The goal is achieved by ensuring that all children and young people who want to play sports receive good treatment, learn basic motor skills, train properly and socialise with others with the same interests. Then it is important that we invest in sport of the widest possible nature, but that there is also the opportunity for those who want to take the step forward to various types of elite initiatives. Having said that, there is a challenge that affects both public health and the conditions for successful elite athletes, namely that children and young people end their sport too early. This means a short-term deterioration in health and perhaps, later in life, one lacks a physical healthy and active life to the extent one wants. But it also means that the potential talents that then take the step into sports gymnasiums and elite sports end before they have fully tested their abilities and that those who continue with their efforts do so in a smaller context. As Minister for Sport, I want to protect a broad sports movement, where as many people as possible can fit for as long as possible. It is, of course, a tool for public health, but it is also a key element in our model of raising elite athletes and promoting the joy of movement of many children and young people in our country.
i-862ea470fb8cff03-436	Madam President, I would like I still wonder, and I know that many at different schools in the country also do, how to combine their elite sport with high school studies without costing anything. The Swedish School Inspectorate and the Swedish National Agency for Education have long since brought this to the attention of the government in a letter. I would like to say that the dividing line is that we Moderates want to take responsibility and resolve this problem, while the government is only going to follow one case. Following something can be done when you watch sports on TV, but you cannot solve a problem by following it. You actually have to act. Madam Minister! I wonder why the government does not intend to act on this matter when there is an obvious problem. The Swedish Sports Federation writes in a report on the latest research on talent development that if sport is able to keep more children and young people for a longer period of time, there is a better chance of more sports talent being discovered. There should be an opportunity to combine an elite initiative with upper secondary school studies, because it is young girls and boys who study and conduct their education. If you do not intend to do anything about the problem, how can they do so? I am asking about my question: should I interpret it as that it is only RIG that is the way forward and that NIU should no longer exist?
i-862ea470fb8cff03-442	Madam President, I would like Once again, Alexandra Anstrell has misunderstood that I am highlighting the division of responsibilities for sport policy. It goes without saying that both forms of education are valuable and important for elite young people to be able to take part in and combine with upper secondary education. I hope I've cleared up that misunderstanding. I do not see that there is a dividing line in our desire for it to be possible, of course, to combine high school studies with elite efforts. The individual matter on which the Swedish National Agency for Education decided is not something on which I can comment. I and the Government, in particular the Minister for Education, who is responsible for this matter, are following this matter in order to ensure that it is possible to combine elite athletes with upper secondary education. Today we have talked about different parts of elite and elite sports, about the importance of both wide-ranging and cutting-edge sport, about the importance of being able to have dual careers and about building self-esteem not only through movement and sport but also through an adequate and completed education. I believe it is important for more people, more children and young people to be able to exercise sport and exercise regardless of the form they take. It is therefore positive that the sports movement now has a very wide-ranging effort to broaden its activities and stimulate lifelong sports in society. There is a gathering of forces that the government has initiated together with the sports movement and the outdoor movement to increase physical activity during the school day. We have also invested in more movement and sport in school for more. All of this, together with the investment in outdoor sports, increases the conditions for elite sports. And of course, again, it should be possible to combine elite sports with upper secondary education.
