i-2101c11551888f7f-4	Mr. Old President! I read from time to time in Kerstin Ekman's book Gubba's pasture. She reminds me of how important it is to see both the small detail and the big picture. A meadow is composed, at the end of the day, of individual grasses, and individual grasses depend entirely on the meadow's constitution. She's helping us see both of them. What the Committee on Culture is now dealing with are the conditions for the creators of culture. The lesson drawn from Kerstin Ekman can also be used here. You have to see the conditions of each individual creator of culture, but you also have to see the ecological system around each of them. One must look at the whole meadow of good conditions for cultural creators while looking at the individual creator's own conditions. The report now under debate, on which decisions are to be taken later, contains a wide range of proposals to improve the conditions for cultural creators in Sweden. In addition, there is an investigation that is currently being prepared by the government. I am very much looking forward to the further preparation of the conditions of cultural creators. Mrs Ma n points out a wide range of proposals, Mr President-in-Office, on what should be done to improve the conditions for good art in Sweden. I would like to point out three areas which I believe are particularly crucial. The first is freedom. It is a question of safeguarding freedom of expression on which all the culture and opinions are finally built. It is the right to speak, to speak, to speak, which is sometimes called into question. In particular, the freedom of culture is called into question, and sometimes even artists are subjected to attacks because of their opinions. This freedom is also about arm's length. How are we, from the political side, to govern the cultural sphere that exists without interfering in what is created but still creating good conditions for people to be able to create and meet in culture? The threat and hatred that we see sometimes emerge, Mr President of the Age, means that people are finally forced to remain silent or dare not say what they were going to say. Freedom is also about, which is often forgotten, diversity in funding. When you do not get the opportunity to finance yourself from one party, it is the freedom to also be able to finance you from another party. That is why it is so important to think about how we make sure that more people want to participate and contribute to a rich cultural life in Sweden. The second is the conditions for the individual and for the whole. It's about how we make sure that there are opportunities throughout the country to be an artist. There's a lot to do there. It is clear that there is sometimes a need to have a creative mass and that many people gather in large cities. But there is also a need to meet and create culture throughout the country. It is about ensuring that copyright works. We have had a lot of discussions about this in this Parliament over the past few weeks. We do not all agree that what came out of the European system was absolutely perfect. But I think we agree that a functioning copyright is needed to ensure that the creator can also be paid for what she does. In general, more money and more resources are also needed in the system. It is about public funds but also private funds. It is about making it easier for people to invest their capital to enrich Sweden in the form of culture. It is also about MU agreements and other solutions that exist to give the exhibitor or the public a chance to obtain funding. The conditions are also created if there is a basic security system in Sweden that is also suitable for cultural creators. It is therefore important that the study now on the table on the conditions for cultural creators has concrete proposals for greater security and security for cultural creators. In addition, the prerequisites are to think about how we make sure that the social heritage or educational heritage in Sweden is not so crowded that it is only the one who today has an artist as a father or a culture-interested mother who becomes an artist, but that we get a breadth of creation. It is about people not least through the education system, no matter where they come from, seeing the possibility of becoming a creator themselves. The third point I would like to highlight is the level of education in society. You often forget about it. We are talking about creating conditions for artists. Part of this is that there is an initiated audience that participates in the conversation, participates in the practice and sometimes is passive viewers. The desire for cultural experiences is widespread in Swedish society also affects the conditions of cultural creators themselves. Dialogue itself is important. But it also increases the quality if more people strive for high quality and to participate in the conversation. Mr. Old President! More than ever, conditions are needed for cultural creators. More curiosity is needed in Swedish society and more education in the world we live in. There is a need for more understanding, more creativity and all that culture and culture creators can contribute to in society. Although the need is greater than ever, the threats are also quite large. That is why it is important that we from the Committee on Culture note that it is not only cultural politicians in the Committee on Culture who must be involved in creating good conditions for artists and creators of culture. There is a need for committed politicians in the Tax Committee, in the Social Security Committee and in many other committees in the Riksdag, and not least in the Education Committee. It is about ensuring that society as a whole makes better use of the power that exists in good conditions for cultural creators. More people need to see the gravity and the value. Mr. Old President! With this, I would like to endorse Amendment No 8.
i-2101c11551888f7f-19	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6 on the need for revision of the performing arts alliances. The stage alliances are a collective term for three modern security networks for freelancers in the performing arts area in Sweden: Theater Alliance, Dance Alliance and Musik Alliance. In order to improve the situation of performing artists, funding has been allocated since 1999 to performing arts alliances where freelance professional actors, dancers and musicians with more can get employment and compensation during periods of lack of commitment. They are offered various development programmes in the form of competence development but also work mediation activities. The latest evaluation by the Riksdag Cultural Committee of the performing arts alliances and their programme dates from 2012. It showed that the alliances have improved the security of the stage artists employed but also that there is room for development. We Moderates believe that there is a need for a new evaluation and that it should be carried out as soon as possible. A great deal is happening in the field of culture, and there must be nice and good conditions for those who delight and engage the rest of us. I read a very interesting quote the other day by Armenian-American writer William Saroyan. He has said that the task of art is to make the world bearable. It's pretty heavy, you guys! Art makes the world bearable; then perhaps we should also consider that the people who do this for the rest of us must have conditions on which to live. Many artists with whom I have spoken testify to all the extra jobs that they need to have in order simply to make a living. The National Association of Artists has calculated that the average salary of a cultural worker, an artist, is SEK 13,000 a month. In fact, many people refrain from having children because parental benefit is so low. It's alarming. Mr. Old President! If you get a job as an artist means planning and creation, let's say, six months of full-time work. This allows you to give up the extra work you normally have to earn a living. The money for the time you create then generally does not come in until you have finished your work of art. Of course, this is an incredibly difficult situation. I've been in the Social Security investigation. There are still parts that should be immersed in and which are precisely about the fact that different freelance professions are not fully involved in the social security system. I think that is an extremely important thing that we absolutely must look at. There are proposals, but one would have to go into them and immerse oneself. Social security systems are still mainly designed for those who work eight to five days a week. It has been screwed on some, and it has become something better. However, this category, the creators, is generally outside the security system that allows people to take greater risks and, above all, to have children. Mr. Old President! In the investigation Artist- no matter the conditions? It follows that the income development of artists during the ten-year period examined is well below the income development of the population, and the distance is further increasing. Many artists have such low incomes that they cannot make a living from their artistic activities. At the same time, a large proportion of artists have tertiary education. Many have a four to five-year education and a great competence, perhaps also in pedagogy in order to teach as an image teacher. Artists with foreign background also have wage levels below those of artists of Swedish origin. I have been thinking about why Parliament does not put forward the proposals from the Social Insurance Survey which would benefit or at least bring this group of professionals fully into the social security system. For example, if you receive a one-to-two-year work grant, it is not pensionable. It's not just about artists, it's like that for those who get scholarships. This too would need to be looked at. If you work and pay taxes – you don't do that on the scholarships that are one to two years old – you also need to be able to get a pensionable income in order to earn a living on the day you retire or become ill, for example. However, artistic contributions and scholarships that are longer than two years are taxed, and they are also pensionable. But if you receive one- to two-year scholarships, which is not uncommon, you have no pensionable income. These short grants, which are not taxed, do not form the basis for SGI either. What happens if you get sick? Then you don't have your SGI to fall back on. I would like to call on Parliament, and in particular its majority, to really look at this so that we do not have a group of professional creators and collaborators in society who are not fully covered by the social security system.
i-2101c11551888f7f-32	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by pointing out that I support reservation 3 of the Swedish Democrats in the report we are now debating. So that's my motion. The reservation that I am calling for, in turn, concerns a request from a committee motion from the Swedish Democrats that focuses on architecture and public design. More specifically, the profession in the current exercise concerns the one-percent rule – that is, the principle that has now existed for decades and which indicates that 1% of the total cost of publicly funded new, re- and extension should be dedicated to artistic design. Mr. Old President! There is much to be said about this principle, including how varied it is applied throughout the country. The Artists' Board released a report a few years ago that makes it clear that there are questions about how the principle should be applied. For example, the application differs significantly between different types of Swedish municipalities, such as growth municipalities and depopulation municipalities, because the conditions are very different. To achieve a clarification of how to comply with the 1% rule is of course important politically in general, but especially for the conditions of our Swedish cultural creators. However, with regard to the 1% rule, I would particularly like to emphasise something else here today: we Swedish democrats want appropriate directives to be examined so that the artistic design in connection with the 1% rule could lead to greater aesthetic sustainability in the country's public environments. Mr. Old President! Why aesthetic sustainability is important in public design perhaps tells itself to some of us. But to explain it, it's about the community building we want to see, the architecture we want to see, and the public environments we want to see best to remain for tens or even hundreds of years. In the best of worlds, what is built by us, now living generations, will also be perceived as pleasing and pleasant much further into the future of the generations that come after us. Precisely how this is to happen, and what kind of artistic design will be aesthetically sustainable, can of course be difficult to predict here today. Of course, it is possible that something that is perceived as radical, provocative and not at all very appealing and pleasant by many today could be experienced differently by future generations. Regardless of this, it is important that we carry with us and act in the direction that we portray our society artistically with an ambition of aesthetic sustainability. Here, as elected decision-makers, we should work to ensure that the design of our public spaces has extensive popular support, and that the design takes place with support in scientific research – as opposed to allowing cultural radicals and elite forces to put the agenda in a direction that lacks popular support. Mr. Old President! However, we have seen too many times in Sweden that public and tax-funded art in the eyes of many seems to lack a more forward-looking perspective. We can take the menstruation of Stockholm's subway as an example. We can take the slobbering flagpole with a Swedish flag on Sergels torg as a second example, where the flagpole was set up right next to a place for an act of terror that became traumatic for Sweden as a nation. A third example comes from Gothenburg, where Västtrafik decided that a work of art that would adorn the train station would be a lifetime full-time employee who would walk around the station and form the work of art itself. This is therefore about works of art that upset many people – perhaps rather because there was a lack of respect for what taxpayers' money is used for than that it was a criticism of the artistic qualities of the works. Promoting aesthetic sustainability in relation to the application of the 1% rule is a way of showing respect for our clients, the Swedish people. This shows that we have an ambition to take long-term responsibility for the public image and for taxpayers' money. This is something that is important to us Swedish democrats.
i-2101c11551888f7f-42	Mr. Old President! It was in calm words that Jonas Andersson made comments that are really very radical. The speech was about us steering more what can be said and what can be done. We will decide more centrally – we politicians, I guess – what will have to be shown. What does not fit should not be displayed. I think it must be noted, Mr President-in-Office, that this is a very radical position. It is also a position that would mean that we were probably still in the Stone Age. What has developed humanity all along has been that someone has thought differently, and this someone has sometimes also manifested it in the form of art, literature or anything else that has shown people a way of looking at a thing that has not been thought of before. Of course, this has meant that some people have been cursed. Some people have shaken their heads. Some people have tried to demolish the statue, destroy the work of art, or silence the author. But this is exactly what has driven the population and humanity forward: to think new. How can it be, Mr. Age President, that Jonas Andersson thinks we're done thinking?
i-2101c11551888f7f-45	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your question, Christer Nylander! To answer it, I can only refer to what I said before: you should have popular support for the art that you tax finance together, and it should be based on scientific research. I find it difficult to see what is so radical and revolutionary about publicly funded art having popular support. What is radical here is rather if Christer Nylander thinks that publicly funded art should not have popular support. Is that what you think, Christer Nylander?
i-2101c11551888f7f-47	Mr. Old President! I think there should be both art that provokes me and art that doesn't provoke me. I'm not the one who should decide which art to perform. It is not up to me to decide which art is to receive public support. I think they should do that which is better sent than I to figure out what is exciting right now, what makes us see new and what makes us see what no one else has seen and what is behind the corner. There must be someone else thinking about it. If I were to decide what was, or if the Riksdag were to decide what could be written, we might not have the Divine Comedy. Maybe we wouldn't have had Stravinsky's Spring Sacrifice. Then maybe we wouldn't have Ibsen's Nora, who questions the role of gender power. Then perhaps we would not have had a lot of other things that have meant that mankind has taken steps forward. For it is by challenging what is considered normal that mankind takes steps forward. This is what is so exciting and important about free art: People can think freely, express it freely and create freely. You can get other people to think new thoughts too. That is how development takes place, and that is how man has evolved for thousands of years. There are individual characters who have thought freely and thus made other people understand new things. That's how development is created. By constantly considering whether the majority should be able to prevent innovation, or by having public support that only goes to what is today popular, you stifle the new idea. That is exactly what you want to do with your system, as I see it, Jonas Andersson. This is exactly what it means. Now, Jonas Andersson says that it is not about banning things, it is about not giving public support to things. However, if we only give public support to what already exists and is accepted today, we will gradually become a poorer society. We will also offensively push out the new ideas that could arise if we treated everyone equally freely and curiously on the basis of freedom of expression.
i-2101c11551888f7f-52	Mr. Old President! Thank you, once again, to Christer for his reply. I can simply refer to what I said. The fact that we have popular support for what we do in Parliament is of course important. After all, we are the greatest representative of the people. It is the people who are our clients. It is in its interest that I should like to act. That is why I think it is very important that we have popular support for what we are doing, and of course also that we are designing policies based on scientific research. That's what I mean by aesthetic sustainability. It is clear that it should be in our interest as elected representatives to try, for example, to formulate the 1% rule, which I have discussed, in such a way that future generations will also find what we are building and establishing appealing. Christer Nylander is making very big changes on these issues. It is a powerful exaggeration and an over-interpretation, I think, of what I said in my speech. I do not think it is a particularly radical proposal to have popular support on these issues. If you ask people in Sweden what they think, I think the line I advocate has a very strong support. I have doubts as to how they would view the line that Christer Nylander is advocating. Rather, it thinks that this is a terrible thing, as it appears from the speech that Christer Nylander has just made.
i-2101c11551888f7f-57	Mr. Old President! The central issue of the Left Party's cultural policy is how we can create a cultural life for all and not just for a few. We want to enable people throughout the country to be both participants and spectators by increasing access to culture. That is why we must have good conditions for both professional artists and amateur cultural practitioners throughout the country. This may include studio support, meeting places, organiser support and the right to fair compensation. This requires increased funding to institutions at all levels and systems that make it easy to apply for grants for their own projects and performances. Then, of course, it is essential that cultural workers also have basic security in parental leave, illness, old age or unemployment. If Sweden is to live up to Section 2 of the Government Form, which states that the... cultural well-being of the individual should be one of three... fundamental objectives of the public sector, and if the country is to achieve its cultural policy goal of, that creativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape the development of society, those who create culture and art must be given good opportunities to operate. The Left Party has a long history of fighting for the conditions of cultural creators. As part of the labour movement, we fought for everyone's right to culture, and as the first party we developed a cultural programme back in 1946. During the last parliamentary term, we were involved in ensuring that the library allowance was increased so that authors and translators received better remuneration, that the regions received increased funding through the cultural cooperation model and that more money was allocated to free groups. In some parts there are good grounds for artists to receive fair compensation. The MU agreement is such a construction. The amendment represents the participation and exhibition compensation agreement. It is a framework agreement for artists' participation in exhibitions concluded between the state and the Artists' National Organisation, Sweden's Artists and Industrial Designers, Svenska Fotografers Förbund and Svenska Tecknare – it has good attendance. The aim of the agreement is to create better conditions for visual and design artists to be paid for the work done and to ensure that artists in connection with exhibitions are compensated for both the cut-off of working hours in connection with the exhibition and for the art shown. The MU agreement applies to state institutions, but the intention has been that the agreement should guide the entire industry, including private exhibition organisers and regions. The MU agreement has resulted in better conditions for visual artists, but the problem is that the agreement is too rarely complied with. If we compare an art exhibition with a theatre set, it would be unthinkable not to reward professional actors for the rehearsal period but only for the actual performances. But only more than half of Sweden's exhibition organizers apply the MU agreement, according to the MU barometer that was implemented in 2015. It looked at the application in 2014. We can hope that the next barometer will show an improvement on this. The report also shows that there is a gender difference in how artists are replaced. In fact, in cases where exhibition organisers substitute under a different remuneration model than the MU agreement, male artists receive on average 52% more remuneration than female artists and more than twice as much as persons with a different gender identity than male or female. When you look at the figures from organizers who apply the MU agreement and who have reported how much they have paid, you can see that this difference is much smaller and that many artists have only received 10 percent more. So there is still a difference, but it is smaller. The Left Party believes that all exhibition organisers who somehow receive government grants should apply this agreement. We must also ensure that gender-based differences in the payment of compensation do not occur. Mr. Old President! Although visual artists are the ones with the lowest remuneration and toughest conditions, we also need to talk a little about the conditions of music life. Each generation has gained its own space and has its own music based on its music traditions. There is today a wide range of musical genres and a musical diversity that we should be happy about and have every reason to be proud of. But these genres and styles live under very different economic conditions. In fact, it is the policy's responsibility that music in our country is given the opportunity to develop and expand. Music, together with film, is the art that young people from all walks of life most come into contact with today, both as recipients and practitioners. For example, there are 600 000 people in the country singing in choirs. That's an amazing number! Young people rehearse and play in bands in thousands of basements and temporary facilities. Music and culture schools exist in almost all municipalities today. Local orchestras, choirs, music houses and regional and national institutions form a good foundation in the music life supported by society. At the same time, the free music life, professional groups, musicians and singers, stands for a very large part of the music offering. Many choose to freelance for artistic reasons. Artistic freedom is very important for music to develop. The conditions for music life have changed a lot in recent years, partly due to digitalisation and globalisation. There is today a network that calls itself A music life for everyone and consists of 22 national music organisations. They have longed for a major investigation into the conditions of music life and propose an independent parliamentary investigation to map the complex conditions of music life. The aim is to modernise and update music policy, and it is really needed. The network wants, for example, to look at how we distribute public support so that it becomes more equal for different musical orientations. They also want us to look at the regions' support for music life, how it can become more uniform and how we can have musical diversity throughout the country. What about management, bookings, the organizer trail and so on? How can politics play a part in creating the conditions to secure the regrowth of new musicians? It is also an important issue. The network also wants us to look at how we can get a tour structure. There are therefore many elements that could be included in such an investigation. The Left Party shares the network's view that the terms and conditions need to be reviewed from scratch. It is a little interesting that in the last two electoral movements, the majority of the parliamentary parties sitting here today have participated in debates organised by these music organisations. Both times the participants have testified that it is self-evident that such an investigation must be carried out. Unfortunately, however, it has proved to be the most lip service from the other parties, because today, when the Left Party has a motion on this table, everyone else says no. Last February, during the People and Culture event, we were eight party representatives who said that this is an important issue. But now that things are getting sharp, a lot of people are ducking. At Folk och Kultur several referred to the government perhaps to take the initiative, because then it goes faster. Then I am thinking, now that no party supports our motion which requires such an investigation, if there is any money going on from the budget-cooperative parties. In our amending budget, I have not been able to see anything. Is it coming in the autumn budget? We need to get a little spin on this. I do not want to sit in another panel debate in the next election campaign and talk about the same issue again, because now we have promised many times. I see time is running out here-- I'm going to spend a little bit of speaking time. A similar situation I experience with our proposal for an artist fund. Twice we have proposed an artist's fund, but both times the other parties have said no. In the election movement, when we were with KRO, the National Association of Artists, I heard from the Liberals, the Moderates and the Environmental Party that this was to be carried out. Today, however, the Left Party's motion is rejected for the second time. Two different government investigations have looked at this with an artist fund and think it would be an interesting way to finance artists' remuneration in the future. I will try to briefly explain how this can be done. This is a charging system that would take effect when copyright rules expire after 70 years. Then the resale right no longer applies, and the idea is that you would then have a fee on the resale of art. This could go into a fund that funds the art of new artists. Older art could thus help create good conditions for future art. Although this has been investigated twice, no proposal has come from the government – there has been no proposal. Now I really hope that the latest investigation will lead to something so that we do not have to continue to exercise about something that everyone seems to agree that we should do. Mr. Old President! I have now presented some of the proposals that the Left Party has included in today's report. Of course, I support all our reservations, but in order to save time choose you I to lift reservation 5.
i-8w4rJKVxjN9gxiLs2NRzfa	Mr. Old President! I support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 2. Important issues of freedom of expression and copyright have been raised here. I want to say that I am very much behind freedom of expression and the opportunity to both provoke and look at beautiful art and so on. Stravinsky's Spring Sacrifice, which I myself appreciate and which from the beginning did not go to the audience at all but which eventually became one of the great works, was mentioned here. Copyright, which I think is extremely important in this context, also comes in here. Who dares choose the art profession today? And how can you live off your art? There are grants and scholarships, and you can sell your works, but is that enough? This is an important issue for the art creators. It's hard to live off your art whether it's music, dance, theatre or other artistic stuff. Many people get to work alongside one, as you say sometimes, ordinary job. A real job, you even say sometimes. Culture is something that is taken for granted, but it also means an economic reality in which many live. That's what I'm going to try to bring up here. Culture is important for us and for us to be able to function as whole people. We from the committee visited the Arts Board some time ago. They are in the process of remuneration and contributions to artists. These contributions amounted to 467 million in 2019. These are compensations for artists and authors in the fields of images, form, music, theatre, dance, word and film. Within the Arts Board there is a decision-making body called Kulturbryggan that distributes contributions to innovative culture. The purpose of the cultural bridge is to promote innovation and development in the field of culture throughout the country based on cultural policy objectives. There are other contributions. The Swedish Arts Council provides grants of just over 40 million each year to visual arts and design. There are more examples. Library allowances have been mentioned here. There is also display compensation, which applies to works owned by public institutions and shown to the public. It is an important substitute for artists. It almost sounds like there are all the conditions to be able to live on their art. But it's not that simple. Mr. Old President! I would like to highlight what our reservation is about: the MU agreement, which concerns participation and remuneration at exhibitions. The idea is to create improved conditions for visual and design artists at exhibitions. Financial compensation is paid to artists, photographers, craftsmen and artists who exhibit their works. However, it is well known that not all of Sweden's 290 municipalities apply the MU agreement satisfactorily. The compensation paid to artists is usually far too low. And compensation for the work around exhibitions is lacking in most cases. A municipality that applies the MU agreement and replaces artists also for their working hours gives them reasonable conditions, in the same way that the municipalities pay their teachers contractual salaries. A municipality that sees the value of a rich cultural life should apply the MU agreement and give professional artists good working conditions. This would help artists to make the economy work. Mr. Old President! It is interesting that Denmark has ensured that companies can make deductions for art. My party has previously highlighted that it could benefit artists. It could, in addition to being an investment in artists' income opportunities, equate the conditions for embellishment between private and public workplaces. Art would certainly become much more common in private workplaces if it was possible to deduct the art purchased. And the interest in art would probably increase. This is a step of several that I hope will be implemented in the future, as part of increasing opportunities for art creators to make ends meet. Without art in all its forms, life becomes poorer, not only for the artists but also for the rest of us who are enriched by the different expressions of culture.
i-2101c11551888f7f-88	Mr. Old President! 中 Gi me a globe, but preferably a bare Värmland on. That's what Elis said in Tasere. I will make a impact in my beautiful Värmland and show that there have been and always will be individuals who in the culture see opportunities for our country's development. Värmland's cultural life shows a rich history and storytelling tradition – Gustaf Fröding and Nils Ferlin, to name a few. Among today's artists, Lars Lerin stands out a little extra. Who has not seen Lerin's apprentices, who have not only made the apprentices feel good? I come from Ekshärad and could take you on a dialectical journey. Dialects are a source of knowledge about ways of life and may be the real bearers of our common cultural heritage. Then we're really talking about local anchoring and all that that means. But my first stop will be the Geijers farm in Ransäter. It could be described as a fortress of culture in Värmland. Of course, the most famous person who lived there is Erik Gustaf Geijer. He's one of our most familiar yet most forgotten writers. He was a writer, poet, philosopher, historian and composer. It is said that he was one of the greatest aesthetics and ideas during Swedish romance. He was also a Member of Parliament for a few years. But he is best known enough to have been a very warm advocate of liberalism in our country. Another person connected to Geijersgården is F.A. Dahlgren. He may not be as well known as Erik Gustav Geijer, but he wrote the famous play The Värmlanders. He also wrote melodies that most of us recognize. The melody that most of us have sung is probably Å jänta oh yes. Those of you sitting in this Chamber can be calm; I will not sing again. Of course, the most famous song in my neighborhood is Ack, Värmland, you beautiful. However, a more thorough examination shows that it comes from Östergötland. It probably came to Finspång from Holland with Walloons that would teach us Swedes to cast cannons at Louis De Geer. No, we're going to Arvika and one of my favorite places: the Rackstad Museum. Just having a coffee in that environment is wonderful. The sculptor and sculptor Christian Eriksson – he grew up in Taserud – was one of the 20th century's largest sculptors and had his studio Oppstuhage built there. Christian lived there for no longer but instead invited the artist couple Gustav and Maja Fj to move to Arvika and rent the studio. They were the first to arrive and the backbone of what later came to be known as the Rackstad colony, Sweden's foremost artist colony. The driving force of the young artists of that time was a national romantic yearning for nature, the environments and costumes of the allmogen and the search for light, gloom and sadness. You can really see this in their work, which depends on, among other things, the National Museum. Think how important it is that there are places where you can gather cultural workers for inspiration and knowledge exchange that develops culture. My first reflection is that culture does not live its own life in a country but is influenced and influenced by the outside world. Therefore, cultural workers need economic opportunities to develop their qualities. Mr. Old President! The next stop will be Mårbacka in Sunne, where Selma Lagerlöf lived most of her life. Mårbacka and Sunne have become significant for the noble works of narrative art. The slogan of the municipality also refers to that part of the municipality's business community – Sgolika Sunne. There are many who really connect Sunne with Selma, who in his novel Gösta Berling's fairy tale called Sunne the land of the fairy tale. The stories of Sunne and Fryksdalen travel all over the world. Selma Lagerlöf and Göran Tunström have in several classics left Sunne as the stage for fantastic stories. But there's so much more in Fryksdalen. Today the tradition is passed through Västanå Theatre, where the success story only continues in the storytellarladan, which draws full houses. In addition, there is Alma Löv Museum that never ceases to fascinate. There are 16 pavilions and halls in different styles and space for larger exhibitions. Marc and Karin Broos founded this fantastic museum with works by artists from all over the world. We must not forget the author Helene Tursten, the creator of Irene Huss, who was the first female leading figure in the crime scene. Today, Tursten has written an enormous number of novels and screenplays, and her books are translated into 20 languages. Where companies thrive, growth and jobs are created, which in turn creates resources for welfare. It is essential to meet the challenges of the future, both at local and national level. Sunne has also understood the value of creating conditions for culture. Therefore, my reflection is that culture can create businesses and growth in a municipality of Sunnes size. Most companies that are going to establish themselves in a municipality see the cultural offering as a prerequisite for the establishment. I am convinced that a rich cultural life is as important as any other part of the infrastructure in a municipality when a company decides where to build its next warehouse or office. Say that you put all of the following names in a hat, mix them around and then draw the names and let chance pair them; then it will show that these people are cultural bearers separately or in pairs:
i-2101c11551888f7f-104	These cultural carriers from Värmland have become known and managed to live on their cultural form. But it has certainly been a journey between hope and despair, even for the successful. To most people, being a cultural worker is often tantamount to having little or no income. This was something I encountered yesterday when I met the Arts Council at home in Värmland. They testified about it then. Someone said, "We're going into the future, but looking back." We must not forget those who operate today. They're the future. I would say that one must burn for one's cultural form and believe in one's idea. Otherwise, I find it hard to understand how to struggle to practice one's art. The Geijersgården in Ransäter and Mårbacka in Sunne may be on a strong foundation, but one cannot really say that the economy of cultural workers rests on just as solid a foundation until the abounding horns of fame flow over the individuals. My final conclusion is therefore that culture affects us all and is part of our everyday lives. A society must be able to afford to support cultural workers. Culture must cost. A society must provide cultural workers with good basic conditions, opportunities and conditions. Without culture creators no culture. Without artists, no art. Even if you're not Heaters, you're all bearers of culture in some form. We sing songs, read books and tell stories. We enjoy art both in the form of concerts and through the paintings that adorn walls in our own homes as well as in the public. The role of art in a society is not to be politically correct but to challenge our familiar ways of thinking and life patterns. Therefore, a country needs artistic freedom but at the same time a support from society that provides opportunities for artists, whether they write poems or weave a nest, to develop and have an opportunity to live on their art form. I support the committee's proposal for a decision and rejection of the motions on the table.
i-2101c11551888f7f-109	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank Lars Mejern Larsson for the exposé of Värmland and the culture makers there. This shows that it is in the tourism industry that culture grows the most. For example, in my region, Sörmland, our company Sörmland Tourism has been commissioned to look at how to get culture even more into the tourism industry. This really is in time in many different ways and has been doing so for a long time. Just as Lars Mejern Larsson came into the end, no one will be able to become or be able to be a professional cultural creator if you do not have good conditions. I really want to push the social security system here. You often hear how precarious life is for those who give us so much joy and so much to think about and who give rise to different conversations. Good culture should be involved. But we from politics are supposed to keep arm's length. It's extremely important. Lars Mejern Larsson belongs to a government party, Mr. Age President, and it is the government that owns the issue so that the cultural workers are given the conditions they deserve. We cannot have an industry that is not fully covered by the social security system. These are people who pay taxes, except if they have a short work grant. Then you don't. But they have certainly done so for many years both before and after that period. I wonder if Lars Mejern Larsson is going to push the government to get the creators and combinators reasonably into the social security system.
i-2101c11551888f7f-112	Mr. Old President! I very much welcome Lotta to Värmland so that she can take part in the cultural life that we have there. The security is A and O. I share Lotta Finstorp's view. I really want it to be possible to be a cultural worker in Sweden today. The stage alliances are important for the safety of artists. There, the government has extensive work to do to continue to strengthen the safety of artists. If I remember correctly, the government does not rule out looking further at developing this work.
i-2101c11551888f7f-115	Mr. Old President! It is interesting to look at the Swedish Agency for Growth's report The Kreametern, which measures how much the cultural industries give to e.g. Swedish bnp. I found numbers from 2015. That year it was 130 billion, which is 3.1% of GDP. It is therefore a very important industry for Sweden. Then I'll get into the production incentive for film. Lars Mejern Larsson mentioned books that have become film and screenplay. Most countries in Europe have some form of production incentive. We are a number of parties in the Riksdag that have made an announcement to the government to try to develop an incentive that makes it want to continue filming in Sweden. Today you will find environments outside Sweden but similar to Sweden. You can also transfer this to the tourism industry. As far as it is concerned, film - recording visitors form a very large part of the tourism industry in other countries. You go and watch where some TV shows and movies have been recorded. It is becoming more and more so that Swedish film production increasingly moves the recordings abroad because the incentives do not exist in Sweden. When will the announcement be made so that we can come up with a proposal that we can at least relate to? Can Lars Mejern Larsson think of pushing this further?
i-2101c11551888f7f-119	Mr. Old President! The answer is that I really don't know when this will come. However, I share the concerns. A Värmland that looks like Värmland is not as good as Värmland.
i-2101c11551888f7f-120	Mr. Old President! In culture we get the opportunity to understand ourselves and others better. We can develop our creativity through encounters with the unexpected. We can both play and find context and meaning. Culture has its own value and is something that must be accessible to everyone. Therefore, we in the Center Party believe that politics should focus on creating the conditions for everyone to participate in cultural life. In order to secure artistic freedom, art needs to be protected from direct influence when paid for by the public, what is commonly called the principle of arm's length. There is also a need for models for public and private collaboration in these contexts so that arm's length also applies on such occasions. Culture can also be freer if it has several different sources of funding. For example, the Center Party is happy to see sponsorship where artistic freedom is protected at the same time. We also want to investigate the possibility of introducing, for example, the right to deduct first-hand purchases of art for companies. It can be a way to create a larger market for new art without government control. Mr. Old President! Sweden is increasingly becoming a multicultural country, creating new opportunities. Culture also strengthens self-confidence and allows more people to take advantage of freedom of expression. This in turn strengthens participation and democracy in our society. The fact that we have free artists and cultural creators who can work without the risk of censorship and oppression is crucial for an open and democratic society. Wherever we can see tendencies to the threat of free creation, we must be there and stand up for the democratic and open society we want. When democracy is threatened in a country, it is free speech, freedom of the press and free art that are at the forefront to be broken down. There are many places in the world where artists risk their lives to describe with their art the world in which they live. The fact that artists who live under pressure in their home countries can have a place of refuge in Sweden is not an issue that is raised among the motions we have to deal with today, but I would like to highlight that issue, since it has to do with the conditions of cultural creators. In Sweden, we must continue to provide opportunities for artists who have had to flee for their artistry to continue their creation. Protecting democracy, free speech and artistic freedom is a common task for all democratic countries. In Sweden, several municipalities and regions provide sanctuary to professional artists who live under threat in their home countries. Here the artists get a sanctuary for a few years in order to be able to live and continue working with their creation in security. It is important that as many municipalities and regions as possible provide sanctuary for persecuted artists. It has also been shown to have a positive effect, as it will be an important addition to the culture and development of the municipality and the region. Democracy must be constantly defended. It can never be taken for granted. Mr. Old President! There is potential throughout the country, and there is a great deal of expertise in the field of culture across the country. At the same time, today there is a lot of national expertise in big cities, mainly in our capital. What I want to point out is that we are missing a lot of talent and creativity in the country that should benefit more people. This is what we in the Center Party want to change. With digital technology, much culture and knowledge has also become more accessible to so many more. It has become easier to spread culture, and the opportunity for participation is now greater than ever. The technological developments we are in the midst of give more opportunity to find an expression that suits them. It also creates companies, jobs and export income. The opportunity to both take part in culture and create itself through digital technology must be taken into account. We can't afford to stand side by side. We have creative entrepreneurship that engages many people, and we do not know today what new cultural expressions will arise now that technology continues to develop. At the same time, we also know that the conditions for cultural creators are often tough. This is true for cultural creators all over the country, but perhaps even more so for artists outside our metropolitan areas. In general, income for artists and cultural creators is low in relation to the time spent on their creation and in relation to the education they have attended. Many cultural workers are entrepreneurs and freelancers. On the part of the Center Party, we want to improve their access to social security, for example. We have proposed specific information measures for entrepreneurs on pension planning, because it is a group that can often be without this protection. We are open to a model that is elective for entrepreneurs, such as freelance cultural workers, and which offers the same benefits as employees' collective occupational pensions. In addition, we want to invest especially in assembly facilities throughout the country. In these premises there is a lot of cultural activities with opportunities for cultural creators, including theatre, music, pictures and literature, to get assignments and reach new groups. The Center Party also works for access to broadband throughout the country. It is a prerequisite for being able to act as a cultural creator throughout the country, as well as it is a prerequisite for being able to take part in culture and the media wherever you live. There are also tax rules that need to be reviewed. One example I want to mention is the so-called dance band VAT, which means that it is lower VAT if a band plays for a sitting audience and higher VAT if the audience dances. Here, Mr President-in-Office, I must also stress the importance of good conditions for entrepreneurs and freelancers in general throughout the country; this also strengthens the conditions for freelance cultural workers. Mr. Old President! In the Center Party we see the opportunities of artistic entrepreneurship. There may be advantages in working as a self-employed person in the cultural sector, something I myself have experience of as a dance teacher and self-employed person. However, the threshold for entrepreneurship and free-lending is currently unnecessarily high. This threshold must be lowered.
i-2101c11551888f7f-136	Mr. Old President! Sweden should be a country that invests in art and culture. The question of why investments in art and culture are important has several answers. First of all, art and culture have intrinsic value. Secondly, art, aesthetics and creation are important to us humans as means of expression and as a way of developing our intellectual and artistic perspectives and abilities. Thirdly, free art acts as a means of expression and a democratic arena for social criticism and questioning established notions. Fourthly, cultural practice, and the creativity it presupposes and creates, have positive effects on innovation, cultural and creative industries, health, education and much more. As I said, there are many reasons to invest in culture. In addition to the purely instrumental reasons, however, these are, at the end of the day, initiatives that are important for a society simply to have a present and strong cultural life. Culture is important in its own right. Mr. Old President! The most important actors in cultural life are the artists. It is the artists who, on the basis of artistic freedom, represent cultural production and the renewal of art. They contribute to intellectual and artistic development and act as critics and commentators of society's various events and phenomena. But the artists often work under tough conditions. The tough labour market, with many temporary assignments that are not always reasonably remunerated, puts artists outside the social security system. When the Artists' Board examined the artists' demography, income and social conditions in 2016, it became very clear that this particular profession generally has a higher level of education than the population at large, but that their income has risen by only 4 per cent over the last ten years, compared to 18 per cent for the entire population. Other studies show that the person who chooses to be an artist often comes from socio-economically good conditions. A reasonable explanation is that it is above all those who have basic security who dare on the artist's track. Mr. Old President! How many talents do society lose out on when young people from socio-economically weak conditions do not dare to invest in becoming artists? How many new ideas never surface? And what does it ultimately mean for the development and vitality of society? Our answer is that we must strengthen the economic and social security of artists, so that more people dare to become artists. Even an artist should be able to afford to be sick or become a parent and be able to receive a reasonable pension. Down-recruitment to artistic higher education needs to be reduced. During the time of the Green Party in the government during the last parliamentary term, considerable resources were devoted to cultural policy, with ambitious efforts on such things as libraries, cultural schools, performing arts and museums throughout the country. Great efforts were also made on free art. There were initiatives on individual artists, free groups, organizers in performing arts, exhibition halls, visual and design arts, literature and cultural journals and much more. The next step that needs to be taken is to improve the social security of artists. The public has a responsibility to ensure that the protection systems work at a fundamental level also for artists. The Green Party wants to work to make the cultural sector a safer labour market. The artists are few in number and work in an irregular and complex labour market. This means that there is little knowledge within authorities about how security systems can help. For this reason, special skills in the specific work situation of artists need to be developed within the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency, so that they can provide support and advice on how social security, social security systems and the tax system relate to the work situation of artists. One problem for artists is that measures are often limited to cultural policy, although the most urgent measures concern systems in other areas, such as social and fiscal policy. We see a need to further prepare the proposals in the field of cultural and social policy developed in the respective studies. In the long term, it is also important that all scholarships are eligible for social security and pension. We also want, like the Left Party, to see an artist's fund introduced according to the Norwegian model, where a share of the revenues from secondary sales of older art goes to active artists. Many more suggestions can be found in the Artists Policy Report, which in March 2018 presented its report Artist – regardless of the conditions? ................................................................. It is currently under preparation in the Government Office. Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to stress that improving the conditions for artists so that more people can live off their artistic profession is an important priority for the Green Party. This is also an important issue for the government, and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven mentioned it in the Government Declaration. He said that the financial security of artists and cultural creators would be improved. Together we will ensure that Sweden can be a country that invests in art and culture. It is the artists who are the core and absolute foundation of culture. I support the proposal of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media and reject all reservations.
i-2101c11551888f7f-155	Mr. Old President! We now have to discuss a matter that is quite close to what the committee has just discussed. It is difficult to discuss general cultural issues without also affecting the conditions of the creators of culture, for this is ultimately very close together. I would like to follow on from the previous debate. We often say very good things in this House, but action is also needed. Culture creators' conditions, social security systems and other things have been discussed for a long time. Now it's time for action. Perhaps the Agency for Cultural Analysis, which is responsible for evaluating cultural policy, can help us to see the seriousness and urgency of implementing things that we have promised for a long time. The signal that came from Cultural Analysis, which said in its annual report that we are not approaching the objectives of cultural policy, could not have been much sharper. We may even distance ourselves from the objectives in some respects. The means available to us and the reforms we are implementing do not mean that we are moving in a hurry towards the cultural policy objectives that exist. Above all, it is difficult to do anything about the social heritage. The inheritance of cultural habits from parents to children is something that we should spend much more time and creativity on, in order to find a policy that can meet this. It is about the conditions for culture creators, about the position of culture in society, about how the school can be better so that more people learn more there and how Swedish language can become something that everyone conquers with success. The language is largely an inalienable cultural heritage and very important both for our society and for the individual to be able to take on so many other things, both in society and, in particular, in culture. There is now a period in my and everyone's life and in social life where quite a lot is changing. Digitalisation changes the conditions too much, not least in the field of culture. The creation, distribution and consumption of culture are fundamentally changing. It creates a lot of new things, which are washed over. At the same time, it may never have been easier than now to escape into one's own bubble and avoid impressions from others, who do not seem very exciting or are not so interested in. Digitisation puts much of cultural policy on hold and means that we need to think completely new. I believe, for example, that we need to be better at thinking about how the individual perceives his or her situation. It is not only about distributing culture from a central point of view, but also about awakening the desire to learn and face it differently. Globalisation is also changing the foundations of cultural creation. It is now possible to write in real time a fictional book together with a person who lives in a completely different part of the world and to have readers who read in real time in yet another part of the world. This is how it works in all cultural areas right now: Globalisation redraws the world picture. This is a rapid change that is very stimulating and exciting for cultural creation but also means that culture becomes more important. It is through the culture and the encounter with it that we can learn to cope with the great changes we face, to understand new people that we have not met before and to accept that people are different. At the same time, we are also seeing a trend towards regionalisation and centralisation in society, which, of course, poses new challenges for culture. There is a need to strengthen the model of cultural cooperation, which is about regions gaining more power over cultural policy – an important part of the cultural policy we will see in the future. As far as digitalisation is concerned, the report contains the reasoning of a party on cannon. I think this is an issue that is really worth discussing. In a world where we are overwhelmed by culture and impressions, it is not bad if someone tells us, just as a teacher does in school, that this is particularly good, is particularly high quality and is something that you should be interested in. The only question is who this person should be. I basically like great, and it's found in all cultural areas and in all cultural spheres. But perhaps it is not the state that should decide exactly what a cannon should contain. To completely reject the cannon, however, is to leave people in the lurch. Above all, you leave them in the lurch who do not have a parent or relative who tells you what is exciting and interesting and of high quality and what you should discover. If you want to break inheritance, you have to dare say that some things are of higher quality and are more exciting than others. You must also dare to show this to people – this is something you should be interested in. It should happen throughout the country and in many different ways. We also need, as I mentioned earlier, a diversity of funding. I believe in diversity in cultural life for several reasons, partly because freedom of expression and creative freedom must be there, partly because we do not know today what is exciting and important for the future. And we don't know what it is that makes the individual in the encounter with culture learn new things and thus become open to the new in society. But the focus should be on quality. Mr. Old President! With this, I would like to support reservation 1.
i-2101c11551888f7f-170	Mr. Old President! Culture is a broad concept. It also includes art and design and design of clothing. I have had the great privilege of sharing committees with the President-in-Office for four years, and I know how carefully he is also wearing clothes in this House. That's why I apologize a little for my shoes, which I didn't have time to change. But they are cheerfully yellow like the Swedish flag and the stars on the EU flag, and of course I have won to match Mr. Old President's tie! Having said that – to the order and the matter in the Culture Committee's report No 12, General Culture. It covers very broad issues, such as cultural cannons and the like, as has been described by the former speaker Christer Nylander, chairman of the committee. I choose to concentrate on an area in which we, as the Moderates, have reserved ourselves, namely the forms of governance and financing. I would therefore also like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. As the previous speaker said, the previous debate and the previous report go some way along with what may be discussed in this paragraph. I would like to link back to the previous debate, and above all to the exchange of views between Christer Nylander and Jonas Andersson in Linköping, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats. I became a little cold inside when I heard that debate, especially the unfortunately very sharp words – in words, not in tone – that the representatives of the Swedish Democrats had. Mr. Old President! Culture is an enabler. There is a reason why the right and left hemispheres differ. Now I do not remember on a straight arm which of them is more technical and more creative, but it would be terrible if these two did not meet and worked in parallel tracks. But thank God man is made so that the brain halves cooperate with each other. When people of technical and strategic quality meet people who are more creative, i.e. when culture meets the mathematical-technical expertise – that's when it happens. You can go to any university and talk to any institution. Believe me, I'm on leave of absence from Blekinge University of Technology. It happens when we create meetings in all areas. We also know that as representatives of the people. It is when we meet people from different disciplines and when we get them to meet, even if it is an artist at one end and a military in the other, that creativity happens. It's incredibly important. But at the same time, when we stand in the speaker's seat and pay tribute to this, we hear what is its opposite, namely the talk of art and culture as a means of power. Mr. Old President! I have half my soul in Hungary. My father came to Sweden after World War II as a labour immigrant when he was 19 years old. He had the same profession as the Prime Minister, the welder. He then trained as an engineer and created a future here in Sweden. I also had an uncle who remained on the other side of the Iron Curtain, with whom we had a great exchange. At that time I also spoke Hungarian. What I remember clearly are the smuggled records with the Hungarian stand-up comedians of the time, who were making fun of the Communist regime in Hungary and the Soviet Union. It was forbidden fruit. Culture can be an instrument of power in the wrong hands. That's why it's incredibly important to say that the distance of the arm is too long. Between Karlskrona and Rödeby, where I live, is a small town called Inglatorp. Bengt Saltö, a fantastic artist, lives there. He's a marine painter, but in his own way. He paints very abstract, and I sometimes understand nothing, except when I hear his stories. Then it is very clear how he thinks and what he wants to convey with his art. He has also sworn that he will not receive a single sekin of government contributions in his work, but will be on his own. You know what? He has done so, even though his art is not popular everywhere, available or seems to be around. But he's on his own. He sells his art and also finds financiers from elsewhere. We must change our attitude here. I was a little upset by the previous discussion. A month ago, when the committee visited the Arts Board, it referred to the importance of broadening funding. Here in Sweden we have lost the tradition of mecenates, which we have really had in all times. We have a much weaker system of private financiers than in many other countries. Why? It is, on the one hand, a matter of tax law. In the text of the report, we refer to the fact that setting up funds and foundations is not beneficial, and we are talking about tax deductions. We need to look at this so that one as an artist is not only directed to state and public funds. But there is also a need for a change of attitude. When I have tried this idea and discussed it in different contexts, I am met with the attitude that if we are to have private financiers, mecenates, the artist becomes dependent on what the private financier thinks. Oh, please! We have had many challenging musicians, artists and writers of literary works who have had mecenates in their backs without this affecting the artistry. We shouldn't be afraid of this. Here we must have a change of attitude, as I see it. Mr. Old President! I apologise for having exceeded my speaking time quite terribly. I think it is very important that we look logically, tactically and mathematically at the financial conditions of cultural creators and the possibilities for private funding. We must also see with our hearts and minds the importance of not putting our fingers between us as decision-makers. Right and left hemispheres must meet, with emotions. That's culture.
i-XzHxL6utyMVXP5uzkZfrFq	I would like to mention that Bengt Saltö is actually represented here in Parliament, in the House of Members. )
i-2101c11551888f7f-183	Mr. Old President! Sometimes the issues of the Committee on Culture do not always dominate the top political agenda, especially in the run-up to an EU election. Today, however, they are undeniably dominating the House, also at a good height in the debate, which is to be welcomed. First of all, I would like to say that we support all our reservations in the report, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 8. In the report now under debate, the committee has dealt with more than 20 requests, ranging from the model of cultural cooperation and digitisation to culture cannon and culture on prescriptions. To sum up, we are dealing with the cross-sectoral role and importance of culture in areas other than territorial cultural policy. To some extent, this also reflects Sweden's view of how culture and cultural policy can be a part of life, politics and the construction of society and play a more prominent role. Man is a cultural being. Most recently a few days ago, I sat with a number of regional politicians in another part of the country and discussed just how we can allow cultural planning to take place in elderly care to health care and urban planning. It is time to broaden and modernise cultural policy objectives based on human nature, aesthetic sustainability and home feeling. Mr. Old President! I remember when during the outdoor day at school was standing in the clear spring air, was equipped with an orientation map, a compass and an initial instruction on direction. Then it was just to run and form an idea of surroundings and stamp stations. Through map, compass and terrain they formed an idea of the landscape's character, landmarks and places to return to. You just got to know your surroundings and home country, if you didn't know it before. In our reservation about cultural cannons, we in Sweden Democrats want to take the orientation of our cultural markers to the school bench. The advantages of a sample map of the cultural expressions that have become classic national landmarks in literature, music, poetry, film, painting or whatever it may be are many and can hardly be exaggerated. Getting to know your country and what is meant, spoken, painted, expressed and created in the image of Sweden strengthens cohesion. It strengthens the cohesion between immigrants and Swedes and between young people and their grandparents. It strengthens cohesion across generational boundaries, but also between city and country. Like the Danish model, a comprehensive cultural canon should also contain the living intangible heritage which, in many respects, characterises our country today but on which there is a distance and ignorance, especially in the parallel societies which in many respects cultivate their own cultural codes, legal concepts and norms. I welcome the transfer of positions and the clarification that the Liberals made here earlier, that this is basically a wise idea. We need to look at this issue in a much more constructive way than has been done in the past. When the committee visited Denmark a few years ago, we could note that the idea of a cultural cannon had been a controversial idea. Today, however, it is something that actually unites parties from almost right to left. Now the vast majority of parties agree on the need and importance of a teaching cannon in cultural expressions and markers. Who, then, will be in charge of this? Yes, it is very true that we politicians should not do that. We shall maintain an arm's length distance on this issue as well in cultural policy and let a council decide that issue, much according to the structure used in Denmark to create a major cultural and social debate on the role, purpose and existence of culture, involving citizens, professions, schools and politicians, civil society and many other actors. Mr. Old President! Culture in health care is a field where collaboration has been tried in recent years, which has rendered initiatives such as culture on prescriptions and the like. In Region Skåne, strategic cooperation between primary care and cultural life is currently being cultivated. Research shows that cultural experiences and activities can help to stimulate and rehabilitate people affected by dementia or Parkinson's disease or people who have been outside the labour market for a very long time after burnout. Research and reason confirm both the need for the larch's drill and the rag's happy song, as well as the piece of music or literature that characterized one and can awaken joy and belief in the future in the sickest soul. While cultural expressions help those who need it most, cultural practitioners can get more legs to stand on. Modern care with evidence-based research and knowledge should be the basis for healthcare and care. In some cases, pure care and emergency measures are required. In other cases, culture can make a difference. With our reservation, which is linked to this issue, we want research to be better translated into practice and for the government to investigate opportunities so that culture in healthcare can be implemented and used in healthcare on a broader front. Mr. Old President! All good things are three. To conclude, this brings me to our third reservation in this report. Deep roots of Swedish culture's foliage lie in our history and in the nature and climate where it was formed. Through geographical and linguistic proximity to our Nordic neighbours and millennia of intertwined history and close relationships, a Scandinavian and Nordic cultural circle with few regional counterparts has emerged globally. Our Nordic cultural community is also the basis for the close political and economic cooperation we see today in a number of areas – including culture, education and research. If we read the attitudes of Nordic citizens in surveys and trends in the social debate, I would also like to say that there is both the opportunity and the need to significantly strengthen our cooperation strategically within and outside the EU, as well as physically and practically in Stockholm as the capital. Iceland and the Faroe Islands have established each of their Nordic houses. Similar houses are located in Åland and Greenland, but also in Finland. Assignments and fields of work could differ here in Sweden, while collaboration areas could be stimulated. Especially in the fields of education, research and student exchange there is great potential. The dice are cast! Mr President, I apologise for the excess of speaking time.
i-2101c11551888f7f-198	Mr. Old President! It is good of the Swedish Democrats that in their reservations they highlight culture and health, among other things. It was an initiative taken under the alliance government, among other things. It has much to do with the discussion we had earlier that the body is a whole and that culture and creation are an essential, if not a dominant, part of it. I talked earlier about Bengt Saltö, down in my home country. This is something he has really devoted himself to. He has built people up in a fantastic way so that they have been able to come back from social exclusion and long-term illness, for example. He has even been able to detect through his creation when people are not feeling well and able to catch them in time. It's an incredibly important area. It also applies to cultural cannon, of course. In this regard, I would like to emphasise what President Nylander highlighted in a previous speech: that this too should be an arm's length distance. It is not politicians who should point out what is good, bad or readable literature, but the profession must do so. But, Mr President-in-Office, what made my finger look to the button to request a reply was an expression that I have heard twice, both in an earlier speech from a colleague of Aron Emilsson and now from Aron Emilsson himself. What in God's name do you mean, aesthetic sustainability?
i-2101c11551888f7f-202	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Annicka Engblom, for the question and the line! I can initially only welcome if even the Moderates now realize the importance and need of a cultural cannon. Then we could gradually gather a majority in this Parliament, and that would be very welcome. As I myself pointed out, it is precisely the distance of an arm's length that should prevail in this matter. It should be a broad body of advice that looks at the content. I do not think that politics should not be missed, but it is not politics that should decide, but it is citizens, civil society, professions and others. I am pleased that the question of aesthetic sustainability is being asked, because I think it is an incredibly important issue to raise. It is precisely about how culture can and should dare to take place in other areas of society. We know, both based on research and on how we feel in our environment, that culture has a role to play in, for example, urban planning and community building. There are many studies that show what happens when we have a well-established citizen base for detailed plans, outline plans etc. to take shape and combine it with cultural planning, or cultural planning, as a method and model for how to make new exploitation. So you weave in the historical identity of the place and local stories or events and create harmony with the surrounding buildings, etc. This creates environments where people thrive and that people appreciate. Aesthetic sustainability is another dimension when it comes to looking at the concept of sustainability. It is not only about social sustainability, ecological sustainability and economic sustainability, but also about cultural and aesthetic sustainability. I would like to see more of that in the Swedish debate.
i-2101c11551888f7f-206	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for these clarifications! Then I know exactly what the Swedish democrats mean by the canon of culture. I can tell the politicians absolutely not to point out what is readable or not. That's definitely what the profession is supposed to do. We have different views on the involvement of politics in what should be included in a cultural cannon or not. Aha! How good – then I know exactly what Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats mean by aesthetic sustainability. This is a bit interesting, for Aron Emilsson, Jonas Andersson, me and Anna Hrdlicka – who happens to be a civil engineer in building technology – have had a small exchange of views via the sender on precisely this. Me and Anna Hrdlicka both happen to live in cultural heritage. I live in Karlskrona, and Anna lives in Visby. It is extremely interesting in terms of aesthetic sustainability, because what the Swedish Democrats say is that current building processes, assessments and broad anchoring processes regarding the design of new construction in old cultural heritage are failing. In that case, I would like to know in what respects it does not work well as it does today. I can highlight a very interesting discussion. It is clear that Karlskrona has old buildings from the 1600s, and Visby has much older buildings. But in the midst of this is planned, among other things, fantastic cultural buildings that reflect our time, and that should be the case in society. We can't just build Roman columns forever. We also need to make an impression in the cityscape in 2019.
i-2101c11551888f7f-210	Mr. Old President! I can't agree with you any more. It is quite natural that every epoch and every time lays its layer of architecture in the social environment. It is not only the Swedish Democrats who have pointed out that it is flawed; Sweden's Television has done so, and there are many reports and many studies that point to that. I would probably argue that in many respects the world heritage cities have the highest level of cultural environmental competence or antiquarian competence, precisely because they have a world heritage to manage, nurture and develop. The problem is found in the lion's majority of the country's municipalities, where one either lacks cultural environmental competence or building antiquarian competence or cannot afford to recruit even in larger projects and when larger outline plans or similar are developed. The county administrative boards also testify in some places that they too do not have the resources to go out with that competence. Where the counties are at their greatest and the resources at their weakest are perhaps also the needs at their greatest, with many municipalities where we have an incredibly rich cultural heritage and cultural history environments. I would probably not say, therefore, that it is in the world heritage cities that we are going to fail to take account of cultural environmental law today or build according to cultural planning and weave that perspective. There it works well in many respects. Where there are shortcomings in municipalities where one lacks or has far too little knowledge of the cultural aspects of the environment. These may be the Planning and Construction Act, the Cultural Environment Act, the Road Act or the Railway Act. Cultural environmental competence is in many cases non-existent or at such a low level that cultural heritage is distorted, destroyed or demolished, often without reason and sometimes also illegal. In these municipalities, I would argue that we have a problem in terms of aesthetic sustainability.
i-2101c11551888f7f-216	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by saying that I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party in this report. For time winning, however, I choose to apply only for reservation 5. Mr. Old President! The commitment that thrives in cultural life, civil society and debate is a tick that connects society. In the Center Party's vision, everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, has the opportunity to participate in cultural life that includes both professional culture and amateur creation. Culture strengthens self-confidence and gives more people the opportunity to take advantage of freedom of expression. This in turn strengthens participation and democracy in our society. In culture and free society, we have the opportunity to understand ourselves and others better. Sweden is also becoming an increasingly multicultural country, creating new opportunities. We can develop our creativity through meetings with the unexpected, and we can also share and learn from each other. With digital technology, a lot of culture and knowledge has also become available to so many more. The opportunity for participation and the dissemination of culture is now greater than ever. The digital society has become a part of our everyday lives, and it has become easier to both produce and disseminate our own creation as well as it has become easier to take part in a wide variety of cultural expressions. You are no longer as tied to space, time, and space as you might have been a decade or so ago. We also see how broad cultural forms such as computer games develop and allow for several different expressions. There's the music and the imagery, the script writing and the animation. We also have the music produced in Sweden and is spread and appreciated across large parts of the world. Yes – with the opportunities offered by digitalisation, more people can find an expression that suits them. This also creates companies, jobs and export income. With creativity we simply grow as individuals but also as a society. Digital technology also offers opportunities to see performances made on another continent, for example, at home in the district yard. We must therefore take advantage of the opportunity to take part in culture and create digital technology ourselves. For example, we already have a successful Swedish industry for computer games and app development, a creative entrepreneurship that engages many people. At the same time, we also do not know today what new cultural expressions will emerge as technology continues to develop. An open public approach is therefore needed so that young people's activities on the internet and in digital creation can also be supported. Mr. Old President! Culture has its own value. We must never forget or reduce that. But culture also contributes so much more – not least to creativity, as I have shown. Sweden has successful creative and cultural industries, and there is a great potential for growth. We also know that people want to live and work in a place that is interesting and creative. Culture with both lace and width will then be an important location factor. Here, Sweden must now get to the forefront in order to cope with international competition. It is also important that everyone across the country has access to a wide range of cultural services. Then it is about creating the conditions for a new thinking and sharp cultural life that also lets talk about itself internationally. Then we must remember that Sweden is unique in all its parts. In order to enhance cultural life throughout the country, a strengthened and developed cultural cooperation model obviously plays a major role. Here, too, we in the Center Party want to give the regions a clearer role in developing a national cultural plan. Another way to create both national and international interest in our cultural life is to set up a system for a national Capital of Culture year. The idea is that a Swedish city, or should we say a municipality, gets the status of a national capital of culture every two years. Then smaller cities can also get attention and a chance to show off and especially develop their cultural life. The national institutions and authorities are also given the task of drawing attention to this. The committee's response to our motion on the National Capital of Culture year puts it against long-term cultural efforts. I think it is unfortunate and misleading. Instead, we should support the proposal, which would involve long-term objectives and models and provide an arena for how we can both spread and strengthen culture throughout the country. Mr. Old President! The introduction of a national Capital of Culture year would give culture in our country an important and useful boost for culture throughout the country.
i-2101c11551888f7f-232	Mr. Old President! Culture has always, in all societies and at all times, had an enormous impact on society's development. In the present time where we live and shape our common future, culture is perhaps more important in its broadest sense than it has been for a long time. Of course, culture has its own value. Imagine a world without music and art. What a sterile and poor habitat we would then have. I have no scientific basis to stand on when I say that in many people today there is a longing for fellowship and association to create together and participate in experiences. Today, more and more people are experiencing loneliness. Perhaps you think first of older people about living in a home. Loneliness in today's society is increasingly highlighted as a public health problem, as it is far from only older people who experience loneliness. Of course, a rich cultural offering is not the only solution to this, but I am convinced that a rich range of opportunities to participate in cultural life is an important piece of the puzzle to a society where you feel connected and develop together. Mr. Old President! Digitalisation is opening up new opportunities in the field of culture, as in so many other areas. The goal of Swedish digitalisation policy is for Sweden to be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. Let me give you an example. Falkenberg's Cultural School, which will be free of charge from this autumn, has a digitalization strategy that will enable students to take part in lessons at their housing locations. For pupils in the rural areas of Halland, the strategy means a great deal in terms of accessibility to the cultural school's offering. It also opens up opportunities for students at Falkenberg Cultural School to be taught by prominent teachers at music colleges. In Halland there is also work going on to use a completely new technology that means that musicians can play together regardless of where they are. It is about being able to create in real time where some participate in Krogsered's district farm and play together with, for example, the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra. Together they can create music in the same way as if they were in the same room. Only limitations in our imagination of what is possible set limits. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the government's governance of the cultural area's institutions. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the cultural field is a policy area characterised by strong independence. Swedish cultural policy is about creating the best possible conditions for artistic creation while questions about the content and quality of art are left to the profession. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the principle of arm's length distance, which is the starting point for Swedish cultural policy, works. They also state that the government has the ability to control the area but that it would create problems with the independence of the cultural area and damage the principle of arm's length. The distance of the arm's length is a fundamental and important principle of cultural policy. We are 100% behind that. The cultural cooperation model is a central and important part of Swedish cultural policy, which needs to have the right conditions to operate in its full potential. Since the model has been in force for a number of years, both Statskontoret and the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis have made reviews of how the model works. Both Statskontoret and the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis have stated that there are a number of areas that need to be developed. Sweden today has extensive efforts to increase international cooperation. All authorities in the field of culture have in their instructions the task of integrating an international perspective into their activities. Mr. Old President! The Swedish Democrats want us to be inspired by Danish cultural policy and propose that in Sweden we introduce a cultural cannon according to the Danish model. The aim should be to establish awareness of what Swedishness is – this in order to clarify what is important for Swedes in Swedish society, as expressed in the exercise. We are now seeing the result in its extension in Denmark. The Danish People's Party's influence in the Danish government has led to 400 journalists employed in the public service company having been dismissed. At least 48 percent of the music played should be Danish music. It should also be made clear throughout public service broadcasting that Danish society is based on Christianity. Such a development of political governance in order to achieve its own political objectives we are strongly opposed to. Mr. Old President! In the light of the comments made to Parliament, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-2101c11551888f7f-245	Mr. Old President! Hans Hoff mixes apples and pears when he starts in the cultural cannon and lands in journalists' everyday lives in the public service companies. Let me address the basic issue of cultural cannon. Indeed, this issue is included in the motion and in the reservations contained in the report. I have already pointed out – and Christer Nylander has touched on this – that I do not understand the Social Democrats' criticism of students in comprehensive school being given a test map, as there is today a task in the subject Swedish to include Swedish classics. Hans Hoffs's own party colleague from Värmland referred earlier to the fact that schools teach about local cultural personalities and also teach about national cultural historical gems in music, poetry, art, film and so on. In what way would it be bad for students to broaden their knowledge base and competence in the country's cultural history, whether they have immigrated here or are born and raised here? It is not a limitation, but rather rather reinforces the curiosity to learn about other cultures and strengthens the will and incentives to take an interest in culture and cultural spheres around the world. Within the framework of the Danish cultural cannon, now the Danish cannon, which is a step further, the Social Democrats in Denmark have also shown their support for and support the cultural cannon. Hans Hoffs's own party colleagues, who he collaborates with within the Nordic Council and in other bodies, think that a cannon is an idea that has fallen well out and gives an increased understanding of their own country's identity. This is particularly true today. As parallel structures emerge, cohesion becomes even more important.
i-2101c11551888f7f-249	Mr. Old President! Now we are in the Swedish parliament, and I'm starting from our relationships. The purpose of introducing this canon is well described in the Swedish Democrats' motion. The Swedish Democrats say that the purpose of the cultural cannon should be to clarify what is important for the Swedes in Swedish society. Who are the Swedes, according to the Swedish Democrats? What requirements should you meet to be Swedish? Are those genetic requirements? Is it about how long you have lived in Sweden? Is it about membership or citizenship? What are the requirements for being Swedish? The very purpose of introducing the cannon is to clarify these issues in Swedish society.
i-2101c11551888f7f-252	Madam President, I would like The purpose is for us to see that we are part of it. We are not just individuals, we are not just islands in the sea, but we are part of a collective identity. If Hans Hoff reads the Swedish Democrats' programme of principles and our basic starting points, he clearly sees that we stand for an open Swedishness, i.e. that if you have come here and accepted demands that are made to understand laws, rules, social orientation, legal and cultural elements, even if you do not choose to adopt them and adapt to them fully, it is ultimately about what you see yourself as, as Swedish and the environment as Swedish. That has its home in the feeling rather than in being able to point out instrumental features; then you are Swedish or then you are not Swedish. But the basic question is whether one really wants to strengthen cohesion, cohesion and community. It was Hans Hoff himself in his speech – that we need togetherness and fellowship. My question is still this: in what way would the introduction of a cultural cannon divide society more, further increase polarisation or reduce the knowledge base of students in culture, cultural history and social science? This is an opportunity that rather strengthens those who recently immigrated to Sweden and want to become Swedes, who want to enter Swedish society as a child. If you get a basic understanding in Swedish cultural history, as Lars Mejern Larsson from the Social Democrats eminently described here earlier, you become richer in cultural competence. I don't understand how that could be limiting. I do not understand that it is in the world of the Social Democrats.
i-2101c11551888f7f-257	Madam President, I would like I definitely believe in a community of belonging, community, solidarity and equality. That is why I am reacting to – and we are reacting to – the motion to introduce this in order to define Swedishness and those who are Swedish. It is the Swedes and the Swedishness who are the very purpose of introducing the cannon that you describe in this way. It is a work that has been done successfully in Denmark, you say, and it has been done in Denmark. The number of journalists in public service has been cut and direct directives have been given for what to send. It's supposed to be Danish music, and it's supposed to be Danish Christianity to some extent to strengthen the Daneness itself. We are distancing ourselves from this kind of political orientation. Of course I'm a democrat. I believe that all political parties have the right to pursue their questions. But I am also very grateful that we have political heroes in the form of the Center Party and the Liberals, who did not agree to have the Swedish Democrats as a support party. This would certainly have been the case by then.
i-2101c11551888f7f-261	Madam President, I would like The concept of "canon" arouses feelings that I think are very exaggerated. I do not mean above all at Hans Hoff, but I mean generally. I have the idea to try to follow the critic lists for Swedish literature and have always read one of the books in the top ten on different critic lists. For me, it's a cannon, a guide and something to match. For me, a cannon is precisely this – that the individual has some guidance in the culture of what is particularly important. For me, cannon is a way for the individual to free himself, form himself and create something new. Nevertheless, I would like to explain to Mr Hoff and make it clear to the House that when I talk about cannon, it is not to define Swedishness or Danishness or anything else, but to help people in their own education journey. There is a curriculum in Swedish school that tells about which works of art are reasonable to know and which literature is reasonable to know. There are textbooks and anthologies about literature that show which Swedish literature is particularly interesting to read. I think that's good. The reason why I mentioned the cannon in my speech was precisely this. I think it is essential to de-dramatise this term. It can't be kidnapped by those who want to use cannons to shut it out. It should be used by those who want people to grow as individuals through education.
i-2101c11551888f7f-267	Madam President, I would like I thank Christer for his clarification.
i-2101c11551888f7f-268	Madam President, I would like Then thank you for your thanks.
i-2101c11551888f7f-269	Madam President, I would like I must say that I have been extremely inspired by listening here. We've brought a lot of things with us today. We've been told wonderful Värmland prose. We have had a debate on freedom of expression which I think is vital and important. It was awakened by our president of the cultural shot, Christer Nylander. We've even heard the expression. Danish Christianity, which made me curious. Actually, I've never heard that before. It has been very interesting and exciting to be part of this debate. I really enjoy being part of the Committee on Culture. I came to think of one of my experiences when I attended the School of Music in Gothenburg. One day a man named Rune Lindblad came with his music, which was electronic music with sine waves and all that it means of sound that you might think is noise. But I already thought Rune Lindblad was exciting. He was special, and he made very special music. But it broadened my view of what art and music can be. The really funny thing is that Musikverket has now taken part of his music after all these years. It has been a long time since I attended the music school; it was in the 70's. Now the music of Rune Lindblad is adopted by Musikverket. Culture is exciting. Speaking of the debate on freedom of expression, I have a favourite named Stig Johansson. He's the one too, all these days coming and going I didn't know they were life. Please read his various expressions and proverbs! They're amazing. One of them goes like this: a one-way way to avoid cultural clashes is to one-way large parts of the population. ..................................................... Another thing that I found interesting was what was raised about mecenates. It was Annicka Engblom who brought this up. I find that very exciting. I think it sounds very interesting to be able to reintroduce, I was about to say, or to get off the ground that there are people who support some artists in a particular way. I thought directly of Nadezjda von Meck, who was mecenat at Pjotr Ilyich Tjajkovskij and made it possible for him to write amazing pieces as Piano Concert No. 1. I think there has been a dynamic debate here today, which has moved in several different areas. I worked ten years in an organization called Gothenburg Rescue Mission. It works among the homeless in Gothenburg, among those that Mother Teresa used to call the poorest of the poor. They had lost everything. Many of them had absolutely nothing. What I discovered during my ten years there was that, of course and quite naturally, there were gifts and cultural manifestations in these people as well as in anyone. Someone was particularly musical, someone was a writer, someone did good art and so on. What was tragic was that these people had not really had the opportunity to take part in the culture. Nor did their children, whom we also worked with, benefit from culture in the way that many others in society receive. I think that many children and young people are excluded for social and economic reasons. They grow up in families where you may not even open the envelope from culture school, or where the parents if they open it do not show it to their children because they know that they simply cannot afford to make it happen to their children. It's deeply tragic. Some efforts are now being made. One example is El Sistema, a music school that goes out into the suburbs, where the needs are greatest, and makes children try out different instruments and develop their abilities. In Bergsjön in Gothenburg, the Church of Sweden has a job in finding musical talents – they have a music business there. Of course, in our cultural schools there are wonderful teachers, and there are parents who drive their children to ballet and other things that enable them to develop. I have raised the issue of leisure money several times, which I think is an important idea that these children could have an opportunity. It would be $3,000 if you were in grades 4 to 9. Families with very weak finances could be helped with membership fees to a sports club, with equipment or tuition fees to the cultural school. I am now waiting for the rest of the parties, on the left side, to join this with the leisure money. It is very well targeted – it is about families with subsistence support. I will end by quoting Stig Johansson once again, pointing to the left: It is only when your concepts are placed on your head that you see the world from a different angle.
i-2101c11551888f7f-284	Madam President, I would like "The culture of Dalarna lifts Sweden and the culture of the world lifts Dalarna" – this is the vision of the Region Dalarna's cultural plan for this term of office. Dalarna is one of Sweden's largest and most popular tourist villages. The culture and traditions of the county can sometimes be the epitome of Swedish cultural heritage. The region will continue to nurture and develop this position. Culture and traditions are constantly changing. Globalisation is increasingly affecting us by the world around us, which is particularly evident in culture. Cross-border culture enriches both the individual and society. Madam President, I would like The State must ensure a long-term perspective for the regions and not interfere in individual activities to be supported by the State. What is best for the different regions should be decided at the regional level, because that is where the knowledge and the level of ambition are. Dalarna is a region that stands for diversity and tolerance. Where culture and education grow, democracy grows – this is to develop the individual's self-esteem, expression, imagination and creativity in collaboration and in dialogue with Dalarna's municipalities and civil society. Cultural orientation and development are firmly on a regional and local basis, and that is how it should be. The culture that exists in Dalarna must be decided on in Dalarna. We have a diversity in art, music and literature that is widely known also outside Dalarna's borders. Carl Larsson, Anders Zorn, Hugo Alfvén and Erik Axel Karlfeldt are some of our historical role models and celebrities. These have been inspiration for what today is characteristic of Dalarna's culture. Folk music in various forms, Avesta Art and new development in Film in Dalarna are some of the cultural institutions that inspire tomorrow's cultural practitioners. The cultural cooperation model was a reform that the Alliance pushed through to create good opportunities for a rich cultural life with both breadth and depth, which affirms regional priorities and variations in cultural life. The working method provides the conditions for increased regional influence by allowing the region to decide how to allocate certain funds. The aim of the cultural cooperation model is to bring culture closer to the citizens and to work closely with the county's municipalities, organisations and associations in the regional cultural and educational work. However, the model now needs to be clarified after ten years. We need to improve the interfaces of cultural institutions and independent cultural practitioners, and state aid must be characterised by long-term sustainability. Let the weakness of the state in terms of targeted subsidies be kept away! We Moderates want to ensure that the whole country's culture is given conditions and that the regions themselves are allowed to decide and develop their own identity. In the Government's cultural budget, grants are made to state museums for them to have free admission. Unfortunately, this does not benefit most of the country's population, which has a long distance from these museums. Most museums are located in Stockholm. The rural area of Dalarna has to pay for its museum visits. Madam President, I would like The national cultural policy objectives, decided by the Riksdag in 2009, are the basis for today's cultural policy. They guide our regional cultural policy. This is what it says: a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. Everyone should have the opportunity to participate in cultural life. Creativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape the development of society. ..................................................... For this to be possible, Madam President, regional actors must be allowed to shape their own activities.
i-2101c11551888f7f-297	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Culture is concerned with things that cause people to grow and develop and to enjoy themselves and their society. Culture is part of this; sport and outdoor life are other parts of it. We know that all these three things make people both develop and feel good. Today in the morning we were met with another alert report on participation in sport. This time it was about youth sport – The Centre for Sport Research showed that the sports of associations are losing the very youngest. Especially boys aged 7 - 12 do something else and reduce their level of activity in association-driven sports. The assessment is that it is – again – screens and sedentary that steal time from sport. We have seen several similar studies showing similar developments. It is difficult to relate to this as a politician, Madam President. These areas have in common not only that they are good, important and useful for people – culture, outdoor life and sport are, of course – but also that they are rather difficult to control pastorates. We want more people to participate, more people to participate and more people to want to participate in culture, sport and outdoor life, but at the same time we want this to happen on the terms of civil society. We don't want to steer unnecessarily, and we shouldn't steer unnecessarily. If we try to steer unnecessarily, the risk is obvious that we destroy more than we create. These areas are also about combining the opportunities, conditions and conditions of the elite with the breadth. It's about both hockey World Cup and searching for spring signs during a forest walk. The way in which politics is dealing with this is something that recurs in many of the motions dealt with in the report. The model that has so far been used in all these areas is that the state is shooting at money but trying to keep an arm's length away from the actual decisions. I think it should continue to be that way. But it is clear that it requires those who receive the sums from the state to show that they are for everyone. We see in the area by area how people with disabilities do not have the same conditions as others, that they do not even try to create better conditions for people with disabilities. That's where we need to get better. The Parasport must be given better opportunities, but also the breadth and the individual's own initiative-sporting or outdoor life must be given better opportunities even if you have disabilities. We see problems with gender equality, for example how municipalities give more money to boys' sports than to girls' sports. There are sometimes completely unjustified differences, but sometimes also because we have structures that mean that girls deal with certain things and guys with other things. Of course, these structures need attention. The contribution of the state, municipalities or regions shall not contribute to strengthening but break structures. People themselves should be allowed to use sports and outdoor life and culture in the way that suits them. There is still racism in associations and in team sports, there are LGBT people who suffer from prejudice, integration that does not work well enough and older people who do not always get the conditions they would like to have for exercising their sports or outdoor life. These are all things in which we in the state must get involved and say: This is not reasonable. The governance in this area should certainly be that it is free and voluntary as far as possible, but we must also ensure that this benefits everyone. It is unreasonable, then, that there are still structures and sometimes prejudices that mean that some people do not have the same opportunities. We need to find ways of controlling this which does not mean that we are either instrumentalising or directing policy in detail, but that we are opening up opportunities. With this, Madam President, in order to reduce the debate somewhat, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1, which partly deals with this issue of governance. The government should initiate a dialogue with the sports movement. This reservation is largely about parasport and disability. But in all areas and movements where the state is paying for money, one must be able to expect that the money goes to investments that benefit everyone.
i-2101c11551888f7f-308	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 18. The growing exclusion is characteristic of children's and young people's sports. People living in exclusion have lower health, shorter life expectancy and less experienced quality of life. We Moderates give priority to the fight against this exclusion. When households get less margins and less money in their wallets to move around with, it's culture and sports you get to prioritise down. When families can no longer afford to go to football or buy equipment for children's sports, it is often because they have too little income or tax too much of their income. The National Sports Federation has about 3.2 million members. 90 per cent of all young people have ever been under oath in a sports club, and 52 per cent of 13 to 20-year-olds train and compete in a sports club. It's so cool, I think. Sport reaches many young people, and most children in Sweden often participate in several activities. At the same time, other groups of children and young people are becoming increasingly passive and often come from vulnerable socio-economic environments. The challenge is how to reach those who really should be there. All children and young people should be given the opportunity to engage and participate in sport and outdoor life. The figures in the National Sports Federation's analysis of children's sedentary behaviour are very worrying. 78 percent of girls and 56 percent of boys aged 10 to 15 do not reach the recommended levels of daily physical activity. In the long run, it means ill-health for the individual and a social cost for care and treatment. What must be done to prevent these negative factors? For the Moderates, all children and young people's right to sport and outdoor life is extremely important. It offers ways for children and young people into social contexts. They learn to take responsibility and adapt to others and lay the foundation for good physical health in adulthood. Given this, barriers linked to social, cultural and religious backgrounds or medical limitations need to be dismantled, and we do have that in politics. Madam President, I would like Young people, both boys and girls, live in a media age where unreasonable body ideals are constantly marketed. In recent years, several big sports stars have told us about unreasonable demands, eating disorders and mental illness. Sport is a reflection of society at large. Politics is about seeing social problems and making concrete proposals for solutions. One step in strengthening preventive work on young people's mental health is to explore how closer cooperation between the state and sports movement could be designed. Furthermore, we believe that there is a need for sporting public health objectives. Sport means community and strengthens people's mental and physical health. Training for the elderly can improve quality of life. I read somewhere the other day that up to the age of 90 you can still build muscle mass. It felt very hopeful. Therefore, we added the Moderates and Christian Democrats to our joint budget 20 million SEK to the Elderlift initiative. I am sure that Roland Utbolt will also mention this later in the debate. It is so ingenious that the Swedish Sports Federation and pensioners' organisations work together to strengthen the health of the elderly. It also leads to reduced loneliness and reduced exclusion as an elderly person. It is therefore surprising that the 20 million were removed from the government's, C's and L's budget, despite the fact that pensioners' organisations and the National Sports Federation had already come a long way in their planning how to reach as many older people as possible in this effort. I am very sorry for that and think it is a big misthinking, also socio-economic and not just from an individual perspective. Madam President, I would like Sport is probably the world's best preventive measure to prevent crime, for example. That is why it is important to get as many children and young people as possible into it. Not everyone will become criminals if they do not do sports, but getting into the community that sports gives allows you to get good adult role models but also that you can be part of a team and feel community, even if you train and compete individually, as I have done a lot in horseback riding. There's a community there. We are still at my age horse friends when I sit on weekends and judge dressage. In fact, I'll forget politics for a while, and it's probably pretty healthy– also for everyone around me. Madam President, I would like There are differences in girls' and boys' sports practices. Here, I think we need to review the benefit systems, such as LOK support, which could be turned on when it comes to boys' and girls' training. But also the municipalities must look at the distribution of time by the sports halls based on girls' and boys' sports. It will certainly not look the same in ten years' time, but we must highlight girls' training and competition. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to quote the following from an unknown source: .....................................................
i-2101c11551888f7f-324	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 21. Today, the horse industry plays an important role in many sectors of society, such as civil society, sport and, not least, rehabilitation. For many people, regardless of age, gender, background and individual conditions, it provides health and well-being. In addition, it generates jobs, employment, and is an important part of both natural and cultural conservation. In a survey carried out in 2016 on behalf of the Swedish Board of Agriculture, it was estimated that approximately 1 1⁄2 million people in Sweden are associated with the equestrian sport. Riding is also a great and important sport for people with disabilities. We believe that equestrian sport should be given more attention because it is one of Sweden's biggest sports and as an interest gives, among other things, joy of life and rehabilitation. Around 4 000 riders with disabilities are given the opportunity for meaningful leisure activities through the equestrian sport, and within the Swedish Riding Association's member clubs there is an extensive activity for these. Being in a serious accident or a chronic illness can cause you to lose both self - esteem and self - confidence. Riding as a treatment method has been used for a long time, and previous research shows that it gives good effect as rehabilitation for body and soul, for example through enhanced self-esteem, increased joy and future faith. Riding is Sweden's largest disability sport, and it is no coincidence. Sitting on horseback affects balance, strength, coordination, perception, symmetry, mobility and self-confidence positively. The association with horses is also something special. One of the most important things on this issue is that horseback riding helps disabled people to focus on what they can – not on what they can't, as is common in society's view. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, I will talk a little about our reservation about outdoor life and its importance. There is much research that shows that nature and outdoor life have a strengthening and healing effect on ill health, both physical and mental. Here we want to see a comprehensive increase in resources and attention to the issue in several sectors. In addition to financial resources, an overall national investment in outdoor life is needed. Green care where animals and nature are used for care purposes and rehabilitating purposes is a way to weave outdoor life into more sectors. Another way is to raise the level of knowledge in schools and in children and young people in general. There are many reasons to strengthen physical contact between the education system and the Swedish nature, and Swedish outdoor life can play a major role with its breadth and variety throughout the country. At school, outdoor life could bridge the classical gap between theory and practice. Experience-based learning is assessed as a strong positive motive for outdoor activities: grasping to understand, from a school bench to a large forest. Nordforsk finances and creates the conditions for Nordic cooperation in research and infrastructure. By administering and funding research programmes, Nordforsk brings together national environments and secures high quality research. Increased efficiency, impact and quality in Nordic research cooperation are key objectives and thus contribute to the Nordic region being a world leader in research and innovation. With this in mind, it is positive to highlight the prerequisites for research in, among other things, outdoor life, both from a national and Nordic perspective. The national survey of Swedish people's outdoor habits from 2018 aims to provide a good basis for follow-up of outdoor goals and outdoor life in environmental objectives. This is done by partly reporting the status of outdoor life in Sweden 2018, and partly by showing changes since 2007. The report shows that almost all Swedes engage in outdoor activities in some form, and about half of all Swedes believe that outdoor life has affected the choice of place of residence. Two thirds feel that outdoor stays make everyday life more meaningful, and as many as 90 percent agree on the claim that outdoor life is beneficial to health.
i-2101c11551888f7f-339	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, behind all the reservations of the Center Party, but for time-winning I only agree to reservation 3 on children's access to sport. As some colleagues in the committee have already pointed out, for several years we have been able to read in various reports that too many children and young people are moving too little. One of the latest ones came from the Public Health Agency in January this year and shows that it is more common for boys than girls to exercise regularly. The report shows that most children and young people like their lives and appreciate their health as good. Happily, the measurement shows that fewer people use alcohol and tobacco, and consumption is now down to historically low levels. Fewer people drink soft drinks and eat candy daily. What is worrying is that children and young people are sitting still much of their waking time. Among 15-year-old girls, only 9% move sufficiently. Most active are 11-year-old boys, although the numbers are starting to drop there too. About one out of every four 11 - year - old boys moves at least one hour a day. "Moving" means a minimum of 60 minutes of pulse-enhancing activity, such as cycling to school, playing in the school yard, participating in the school's sports hours or exercising in leisure time. Too little exercise, very sedentary and many hours in front of screens is the picture of the lives of many children and young people presented by the Centre for Sport Research in a report to the government. But the differences are large between different groups. Boys move more than girls, younger children more than older. Some are very active both in school and in leisure time, while others are almost not moving at all. We politicians, the sports movement and the outdoor movement must tackle this. Otherwise, we will see major health problems in the future. About 6% of all children and young people are not physically active at all, either in school or in leisure time. It may not sound that much, but there are quite a few individuals. They rarely or never participate in the school's education in sports and health and are sedentary on breaks. They rarely belong to an association sport and state themselves that they otherwise have hardly any physical activity in their spare time. These children and adolescents are the most difficult to reach. Here, both sports movement and politicians need to think new. Simply adding more resources to associations and more hours of lessons in sports and health is not an obvious solution for these young people because they feel excluded from the prevailing sports culture in both sports clubs and schools. Madam President, I would like The Committee on Culture's monitoring and evaluation group has stated that there is a need for a review of state support for the sports movement. Of course, we want a free and independent sports movement, but we also want to develop all children's and young people's interest in exercise and sport and the opportunity to participate under equal conditions. Regardless of colour, governments have not been good at following up the fact that state subsidies to sport go to what is intended. Of course, if the state imposes conditions on state subsidies, this must also be able to be followed up. The Center Party wants to promote a broad sporting life throughout the country where both established and new sports, including digital ones, become available to more people. We also want to investigate what prevents equality of sport. We want to know why girls stop playing sports earlier than boys and why spontaneous sports places attract more boys and men than girls and women. We also want a national comparison to be made of the amount of funds that municipalities allocate to boys and girls in children's and young people's sports. We already know that girls in their upper teens are, to a large extent, leaving club sports for private training, which causes a gender bias in the distribution of public contributions. Should we just state this, or can we do something about it? Is that a problem? The Swedish Sports Federation works well with gender equality within its organisation, but if young girls and women leave the association movement, they end up outside the sports policy that we want the Swedish Sports Federation to implement. The distribution of resources to women's and men's sports and exercise remains unequal. The Swedish Sports Federation has its voice now in May, and there are several good proposals with a gender perspective in both activities and resources. The Swedish Sports Federation also wants to try to attract young girls who today do not participate in association sports, which will have positive effects on gender equality. Madam President, I would like I will also highlight a group where physical activity is crucial to the health situation, and it is people with different disabilities. In today's report, the Center Party has raised the issue of an association-run parasport library. Sports equipment for people with disabilities is often specially made and can be costly. A library for equipment can be a route to physical activity for these people and also enable an active outdoor life. Madam President, I would like A Centermotion proposes a national collection behind organising the Winter Olympic Games and Paralympic Games in Sweden in 2026. The changing demands and contributions of the International Olympic Committee are a very positive signal. Åre, Stockholm and the municipalities around Stockholm, Sigulda in Latvia and Falun will be involved. External security and border control are a state responsibility, and the government has given positive information on this. In June, the International Olympic Committee will take its decision if Sweden receives the Winter Olympic Games. It would be good for Sweden if we got the Winter Olympics in 2026. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say something about outdoor life. More outdoor activities strengthen and improve public health, strengthen the national economy and increase welfare. Swedish outdoor life brings together nearly 1.6 million people. Today's outdoor activities are also closely linked to growing nature tourism. About half of all Swedes believe that outdoor life has affected the choice of place of residence, two thirds say that outdoor stays make the day more meaningful and as many as 90 percent agree on the claim that outdoor life is positive for health.
i-2101c11551888f7f-355	Madam President, I would like The sports movement is Sweden's largest popular movement with about 3 million members and over half a million non-profit leaders. Every day all year round, on average, almost 145,000 children and young people train in a sports club somewhere in Sweden. Sport is an important part of society and gives people a sense of context and companionship. At the same time, sport stimulates physical activity, which promotes public health. The Left Party has long raised the problems of inequality in access to sport for children and young people. We have exercised everything from opportunity to play, physical movement and spontaneous sports in schools and in our residential areas to measures to ensure that all pupils in primary school are able to meet the requirements for swimming skills. In leisure time, children's and young people's sports activities are largely governed by parents' financial conditions. Previous studies show that what drives costs for children and parents are participation fees, equipment and travel in connection with, for example, competitions. The annual follow-up by the Centre for Sport Research on State support for sports shows that children with educated parents are more likely to engage in sports than children of parents with only upper secondary education. Children of single sports less than children of cohabiting parents. Girls with an immigrant background are the least sporting group. We also see that too many people leave sport far too soon. At the age of 11, the number of children participating in sports clubs is highest, followed by a sharp decline in the membership curve. The costs are one of the reasons why children and young people leave sport. The participation of children and young people in sport has become a class issue. What is at stake is both the right to meaningful leisure time and the right to physical and mental health. Mental ill-health as well as the proportion of overweight among children and young people have increased significantly in recent decades. There is a clear link between low socio-economic status and ill health. At the same time, the links between the level of physical activity and a large number of health aspects are strong. Research shows that if the sports movement reaches another 100 youths, five of these youths will not suffer depression, and 25 youths will avoid symptoms such as stomach pain, headaches, and more. For the Left Party, it seems very important to smooth out the growing gaps among children and young people in terms of meaningful leisure and health. Madam President, I would like The Left Party therefore proposes that a sports school for all children of the six to twelve-year-old age group be made possible, and that is what we have been exercising in today's report. It is an attempt to lower the thresholds and get more to find joy in one or more sports. Our idea is that sports schools should consist of at least three sports clubs, or three sections of a multi-athlete association, which together organizes one or two trainings a week for at least one semester to give children the opportunity to try several sports. Specific solutions may be required in smaller municipalities. The sports school shall be free of charge, and membership of an association shall not be necessary to attend. For this participation, the associations must, of course, receive support, and we propose special state aid that is provided through the National Sports Federation. It is important that you not only come in and try but also that you get the chance to try several different sports. This gives children the opportunity to develop movement understanding and the chance to find their favorite sport. Right now, the Swedish Sports Federation is campaigning under the hashtag my second sport to highlight the benefits of having several sports. The idea is that the sports school will eventually pilot children into regular association activities, and then it is important that children without resourceful parents get a chance to try many sports in this broad community life. It is also important not to have to buy expensive equipment to dare to try several different sports, and one important point is that sports associations start working together on children's movement instead of competing for their time and parents' commitment. We believe that the sports school will be a good complement to what children encounter in the regular sports education in comprehensive school. In order for this not to be a parallel activity, we need a lock-in in the associations. We have an idea that the associations together with Sisu Sports Educators will review their finances. What is it that makes us have such high membership fees? What's the cost to the parents? An examination and guidance should be given to this from Sisu. We have calculated the costs of this, and they land at about $40 million for 300 sports schools throughout the country. It's a pretty low cost if you think about how much good they would do. Children are given the opportunity to exercise and find the important context in a sports association, which several speakers before me have discussed. Madam President, I would like Older people are an important group that is often overlooked when it comes to sports. Research shows, as one speaker mentioned before, that it is possible to build muscle mass up to the age of 90. So it is not too late to start training. Older people who exercise actively in different ways feel better. It is not only muscle mass that is stimulated by physical activity, but it is also about mobility and balance, which can significantly reduce, for example, falls. This is particularly important for women as they have a higher risk of injury in the event of falls. Training for the elderly helps to improve quality of life and reduce health care costs. Several places in the country have built special outdoor gyms that are adapted for seniors and spontaneous sports places with the possibility of both strength training and balance exercises. Swimming and water gymnastics we see as other parts where the municipalities need to do more. All this is great, but it is not enough, especially for low-income pensioners. There should be a strategy in all municipalities to enable sport for the elderly. We have also discussed this today. I have to say that one of the few good features of the Moderate and Christian Democrats budget was the 20 million spent on sports for the elderly. I think it is a pity that the government, with the new cooperation parties the Centre Party and the Liberals, could not leave these 20 million behind. Madam President, I would like It is very important that most things in the non-profit society are handled without political interference. It is a fundamental principle of a democracy that we have freedom of association and that it is the members who govern the direction of activity. However, it must be possible to establish some basic conditions for an association to receive grants from a municipality, state or region. For the Left Party, it is important that contributions to the sports movement can stimulate gender equality work and inclusion for LGBTQ people. This work has got a good focus with the Swedish Sports Federation's target document, called Strategy 2025, but we choose to highlight this especially in our movements today to put some extra pressure on this issue. I welcome what Lotta Finstorp, I think, mentioned about the review of LOK support. It would be good if we could look at it from the perspective of gender equality. Finally, we have an issue that requires clear political interference, and it is responsibility for the safety of sports grounds and arenas. Ideal associations' young people and leaders drag a lot of equipment and set up temporary stands for example, but there are few guidelines and requirements for how to do this. When we as spectators visit a sporting event, we want to be sure that everything works properly. Installation and use are very unregulated today. There are also no requirements on how to inspect this equipment. We believe that there is a need for political action, and we propose that the government should address this issue. It is also unclear who should be responsible for this. We have municipal facilities, we have private facilities and there is a lack of clarity. We would therefore like to see an initiative from the government on this issue. There are many suggestions in our motion – many motions. But, Madam President, for time winning, I choose to endorse reservation 4.
i-2101c11551888f7f-373	Madam President, I would like I support the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 14. I'll make two declarations first. The first concerns what Mr Vasiliki and also Lotta Finstorp mentioned about 20 million to older people's physical activities being removed from the spring change budget. I find that a great disappointment. The second concerns what Mr Helander of the Center Party mentioned about the 2026 Olympics. I also support the idea that it will happen. I thought I'd say something about the doping issues. There's reservations. It is difficult to estimate how many people use doping drugs. But the latest official assessment from the Abuse Investigation in 2010 was that there were 10,000 people. However, research shows that 30 000 people use anabolic steroids, which are the most common drug. This can lead to effects on health, such as heart enlargement, heart attack, depression and blood clots. There are three different categories that use doping agents. Elite athletes are tempted to use doping agents to improve physical performance in order to win competitions, solve weight problems and reduce pain. It is against this category that Swedish doping work is primarily aimed at. Of course, the main objective is to compete on equal terms in a sport free from doping. Another category that uses doping drugs are mainly guys who practice at gyms and use anabolic steroids to quickly improve their appearance and become more muscular. These men have an increased risk of premature death. The third category is people in criminal circles who experiment with various drugs. It has been shown that people in these circles use anabolic steroids to become strong, aggressive, and emotional, and to increase the sense of invincibility. Madam President, I would like In a reservation, the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, propose that Sweden's anti-doping organisation be completely independent and organizationally independent of the National Sports Federation. That's my main point here today. Sweden has historically been instrumental in the anti-doping work, not least through Arne Ljungqvist, who in 1999 co-founded Wada, the worldwide organisation responsible for sport to draw up a doping list of banned preparations and methods. In 2015 and 2016, the so-called McLaren report revealed that there has been extensive and systematic Russian doping before and during the Mar-OS 2012, the World Sports Championship 2013, the Winter Olympics 2014 and the Sim World Cup 2015. The disclosure led Wada to establish that Russia did not comply with the rules, and Russian athletes were banned from competing in international events. Then there has been criticism of Wada in recent years, also from Arne Ljungqvist. This applies, among other things, to conflict situations, where representatives in the leadership of Wada have a great influence not only on the anti-doping work but also on sensitive issues such as the detection of systematic doping in some countries. Sportsmen have also acted themselves. A call was made as late as last year, where they wanted to establish an international independent anti-doping organisation with increased transparency. To give support to the call, leaders from Sweden and 17 other countries gathered in Paris last October. They stressed the importance of the urgent start of work on the reform of Wada in order to restore the credibility of anti-doping work. As early as 2011, a government investigation was presented in Sweden, Antidoping Sweden – A new way to work against doping, which suggested that the antidoping activities within RF should be moved outside sport to an independent national antidoping organisation. It is, therefore, this line that we are pursuing on the part of the Christian Democrats. In order for Sweden to maintain an internationally leading position in anti-doping work and to be able to support the strong movement among sportsmen in Sweden and internationally, Christian Democrats believe it is of the utmost importance to work urgently to ensure that Sweden's anti-doping organisation becomes completely independent and organizationally independent of RF, the Swedish Sports Federation.
i-2101c11551888f7f-386	Madam President, I would like Nilla Fischer. Zlatan Ibrahimovic. Henrik Lundqvist. Charlotte Kalla. Zebastian Modin. Carolina Klüft. Stefan Holm. Rolf-Rolf-Göran Bengtsson. Sarah Sjöström. Anette Norberg. The national team and the women's team. I could have spent all my speaking time just mentioning the stars that have gilded my everyday life and grew up. I've got up in the middle of the night, I've run home after school and work, I've prioritized off meals – all to see that exciting game or that exciting race. I have rejoiced in their success, and I have wept for their loss. These sports stars brighten our everyday lives and inspire every day children, young people and adults to cope a little more and dare a little more. But even though each of them deserves to be hailed for its achievements, I am now going to mention a few other names, namely the names of those who are the real heroes. Eleonor Karlsson. Charlotte Bergstrand. Emma Gullbrandson. Bengt Gullbrandson. Melina Thordeman. Kalle Olsson. Göran Gunnarsson. Helene Nordström. Dan Olofsson. Tommy Karlsson. Karim Karim. These are some of my best friends, some of my old colleagues and some of my old coaches. There are also some of the people I have met on the basis of my mission. They're, or have all been, coaches or non-profit leaders, and sports stars in all honor-- without these people, Sports Sweden would never have worked or been what it is today. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I am part of the boring statistics in Swedish sports. I'm the girl who quit organized sports when I started high school. For all of us who work with sports issues, these figures are sad and problematic. They show that children end up in sports when they reach a certain age. Today we can see that they reach that hump at the age of 11. Bring in that number: Children choose to quit organized sports at the age of 11! A report from Generation Pep also highlights the problem of the sedentary sitting of children and young people. Teenagers move less than children, and girls move less than boys. Far too few come up in 60 minutes of physical activity daily. What development will this entail for public health in Sweden? What will be the costs to society? The problem exists in all groups of children and young people in Sweden, but unfortunately we find clear differences depending on where you were born and raised, whether you are a boy or a girl and what socio-economic background the parents have. Thus, in 2019 we are still living in a Sweden where class and gender have an impact on the extent to which children play sports and what health they have. For us Social Democrats it is obvious that you, no matter who you are or what your background looks like, should have the right to an active life – your whole life. Madam President, I would like A quote from an unknown source reads:.You don't need to be able to begin. But you have to start in order to be able to. 中 Together with the sports movement and Swedish outdoor life, we politicians can of course be involved in lowering the thresholds that today constitute an obstacle to more people being able to move around. We can make decisions that make a real difference. However, I have an enormous trust in the sports movement and outdoor life in Sweden. I do not think that we politicians should go in and poke into their activities or point out all directions. Of course we should make demands, but as a sports politician it is my job to have a close dialogue with those people who make a real difference. Since I became a spokesperson for the Social Democrats, I have talked with the Swedish Sports Federation, Swedish Outdoor Life, the Swedish Ice Hockey Federation, the Swedish Football Federation, the Swedish Parasports Federation and others. I have learned that the biggest critics of these activities are themselves and that they work every day to improve their associations and their operations. They want to make them more welcoming and more equal. Whether I speak to party friends, if I am out lecturing or if I have a debate with political opponents, I think it is extremely important that we highlight the social benefits of sport and outdoor life. It is important that we understand what strength is there and what positive effects our associations have on society and man. We can and will talk about the economic benefits. We can and must talk about the social effects. We can and will talk about health benefits. Sport and Swedish outdoor life are needed to counteract the increased ill health and sedentary sitting. They are needed for our children and young people to have meaningful leisure time, adult role models and safe environments. This prevents them from falling into destructive behaviour. Sport and Swedish outdoor life are needed to give us laughter, new friends, increased community and team spirit, regardless of background. Sport and Swedish outdoor life are needed. My task, therefore, is to get people at all levels to understand that every dollar invested gives it multiple back. Last term of office the government made sure that our 2014 election promise to increase sports and outdoor recreation was passed. I was extremely proud and happy about that. But you cannot live on old merits, and today we need to find solutions to today's problems. Here, of course, the sports movement itself is at the forefront. Through Strategy 2025, they show how they intend to work to make their sports movement the best in the world. It is about changing the approach to training and competition, creating a more inclusive sport for all and continuing to work for an equal sport. It is about modern membership that makes it easier for people to get involved and to strengthen leadership in all parts. Madam President, I would like As several people have mentioned before me, we are in this House debating the report on sport and outdoor life. There are a number of good and well-written sports that deal with everything from children's access to sport, gender equality, LGBTQ issues, doping issues and more. The fact that I am going to call for their rejection should not be seen as being bad in itself. The reason is in many cases that this is work that is already done – by the government, in dialogue with the National Sports Federation, or by the sports movement itself through Strategy 2025. I choose to rely on the extensive change and development work that is currently taking place in Swedish sports throughout the country, because it is needed. I also choose to trust that the government will continue the good dialogue it built up during the last parliamentary term. I also choose to continue listening and pursuing the issues that need to be driven politically in order for us to create a vibrant sports movement and a vibrant outdoor life. I am convinced that it is safe people who create safe societies, and there sport and outdoor life are more important than I will ever have. Madam President, I therefore call for the proposal to be accepted in its entirety and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-2101c11551888f7f-401	Madam President, I would like Today's report deals with two subjects, and I will focus on the sport aspect. We all have a relationship with sport – we have heard that not least during today's debate. My childhood was characterized by sport and movement. I was fortunate: My parents saw the value of having an active youth. For me, it provided a great added value in life, which I still carry with me today. However, there are a lot of things that are not as fortunate as I was, for example those who have been born with a disability or who have suffered something that has made them unable to play sports on the same terms. A TV show that inspired me this spring is TV4's Winner skulls. There, elite athletes or former elite athletes compete for who has the biggest winner skull. Let me tell you why they inspire me. Many of the programme participants have experienced an accident or tragedy that has forced them to amputate or have been paralyzed in one part of their body. To then start investing in a career in elite sports is too many incomprehensible. What strength and mentality they display! I'm really impressed and would like to thank them for inspiring me and many others not to give up. Our exercise on setting up a national parasportotek is about enabling more people to take up sports. Parasport equipment is often expensive. I can understand that parents can't afford to buy a hockey sled before each semester or for that matter, if it turns out that the child doesn't like the sport, to buy an equipment that is used twice. I know that there are sports fields in some parts of the country, but with a national one, we can get more people into sports more quickly. Maybe we can get the next generation winner's skull that way. Madam President, I would like Another issue is doping in sport, which, unfortunately, we are all too often told about. Letting prize money and fame take precedence over the desire and joy of their sport is not only sad; it is a mockery of those who keep on the right side of the law. It is regrettable that some people want to embarrass themselves by competing on unfair terms and using illicit substances. Today, only those associated with a sports association are tested for doping. On the other hand, those who are in gyms end up between the chairs and outside the already constructed system, which is adapted for athletes. It would be reasonable and appropriate to explore the possibility of a similar system for all those who are not linked to a sports association, in order to ensure that doping does not occur in our gyms. Madam President, I would like In football it has been calculated that each bet crown gives ten back. For example, there may be fewer injuries when you get older, less crime and better public health. The report So giving the football back has counted only on the football's winnings, but it is no unreasonable guess that the result would be the same even for other sports. So let us make sure that more people can take up sports! I also want to highlight the focus area of sport for the elderly. It will be easy for us in the debate to mention only the good opportunities of children's and young sports, but sport for adults and the elderly is an issue that I wish more people would talk about. Sport can do much for public health in these groups, not least for prevention purposes. The older we get, the more muscles we lose. This results in weaker bodies that are more likely to harm themselves. For example, it can be a case of falls and fractures of the bones. In addition to this, it makes both the heart and the brain feel good that we move every day – but also once a week. We have written in our committee motion about our vision of sport for the elderly. The M-KD budget contained similar proposals with an earmarked budget allocation, which unfortunately disappeared in the spring budget. I regret this, but at the same time I hope that in the autumn budget we will see appropriations earmarked for this group. Culture and sport are not just for children and young people, but for all of us, at all stages of life. I, too, would like to endorse our reservation 21.
