i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-1	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the opportunities for women and men to be officers in Sweden and whether I will make any proposals to extend the possibilities for officers to combine war placement with family life. Access to officers is one of the greatest challenges facing the Armed Forces. The availability of trained and trained personnel is a prerequisite for our military capabilities. This applies, of course, to both women and men. The Government's decision in March 2017 to reactivate recruitment and basic education with compulsory military service has meant an increased volume of basic education and thus improved the conditions for an increased recruitment base to the officer profession. The gender neutrality of military service is likely to mean that more women carry out basic training with military service. This gives the opportunity to increase the number of women in the officer's profession. As an employer, the Armed Forces have the responsibility to take the necessary measures to ensure the provision of officers. The work that has already been done includes the broadening of the possibility for academics to undertake specific officer training and the re-employment of pre-departure officers. Over the past few years, the number of people who started the officer program has increased. According to the Swedish Defence University, the proportion of women has also increased. In particular, the Government will monitor the development of the proportion of women who carry out basic training with military service and the Swedish Armed Forces' actions and results to increase the number of officers who are women. The Government also follows the agency's other work on gender mainstreaming. As far as the second question is concerned, I would like to start by pointing out that this is not unique to the professional category of officers but affects all aspects of military deployment in the defence system. However, the principle is that where both guardians of a family with children are placed in war, they are both legally obliged to serve. The principle of responsibility also applies to increased preparedness, which means that the municipalities are also responsible for child care. Work on building a modern total defense has recently begun. The government is following this work closely. A robust and well-functioning total defence is an important part of our common community building.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-8	Madam President, I would like We have a great need in Sweden to recruit more officers to the Swedish Armed Forces, especially now that we are going to increase the war organization and strengthen our defence capabilities. The problem is that trained officers are scarce within the Swedish Armed Forces. And if we're going to be able to train ever larger hills of total defense responsibilities, the gaps in the officers' corps must be filled. An important issue in order to recruit more officers is to work more with gender equality. The proportion of female officers today is below 10%. There is quite a great potential for improvement here. Today, the defence is missing a large part of the skills of half the population. Madam President, I would like In its reply, the Government refers to gender-neutral military service. Unfortunately, the answer to both lack of interest and non-existent proactivity shows, despite the fact that the Government belongs to a government that calls itself feminist. I want to make it clear that gender-neutral military service does not automatically mean equality. Usually the word gender-neutral is used for things that have once been gender-defined but then transformed into a variant that does not require a particular gender. Gender equality is something completely different. Of course, reactivated military service is an important measure, and it leads to a broader recruitment base for the officer's profession. Gender equality has also increased among conscripts, from 13 to 17 per cent. That's great. But it's far from as good as we want it to be or as it should be. A woman in the Swedish Armed Forces said to me the other day, "We need to get over the critical mass of at least 30 per cent, so that women stop being a minority identified by gender and instead start to be identified by their own identity and competence." That is how it should be, Madam President. I asked the question of what measures the Minister intends to take to increase the opportunities for both women and men to be officers in Sweden. Imagine how much fun it would have been if we had seen some powerful innovative proposals for action here! I am thinking, for example, of distance education or teleworking and other incentives to attract more people to take up the position of an officer. I've learned to get things just happen. It takes hard work to make things happen. In this case, I see no interest or hard work from the feminist government. In order to be able to receive new ones, you need good existing staff who are happy. And to get good existing staff to stay, they need to thrive and develop. When it comes to receiving new ones within the Swedish Armed Forces, why is there a larger proportion of women who fall away already at the time of signing up and who are disqualified in the basis of the survey? Is there something the Secretary of Defense is thinking about? When it comes to the women you want to reinstate, have you looked at why they left? How do we in the Swedish Armed Forces take better care of women and men who have a family? It must be possible for the Swedish Armed Forces to create opportunities to combine career with family. Why does all education have to take place in Stockholm? Many who live elsewhere feel that being away for one or more years is impossible to get an education. Madam President, I would like The possibilities for creating a more equal workplace within the Swedish Armed Forces should certainly be reviewed.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-21	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by recalling that it was the former Right Alliance government that pushed through the withdrawal of military service and made it dormant. It created a situation that meant that it could not be delivered full and trained units to the Swedish Armed Forces. It also created a situation that was not very favorable in terms of coping with future officers. The activation of military service, which we initiated, has created a platform to get started with it again. We now see an increased interest in officer training in various variants. As regards the officers' programme for 2019 – 2022, 708 persons applied, 124 of whom were women. This can be compared with the programme for 2018 – 2021 when it was 513 who applied, 70 of which were women. That's 13.6 percent. So we see an increase of 4%. In 2019 – 2022, 19.3 per cent of those who started the training, while in the 2018 – 2021 group the corresponding figure was 13 per cent. 255 of the 708 applications for the officer programme for 2019 – 2022 came from persons who had completed military service; of them 62, i.e. 24.3 per cent, were women. This shows that it is still moving in the right direction. We are discussing this with the Swedish Armed Forces. This is also included in our regulatory letters to the Swedish Armed Forces, and we will closely monitor developments. Nevertheless, it is the Authority that is specifically responsible for how issues such as these are rigged. However, I can guarantee that the military leadership has the clear objective of increasing the proportion of women in the officer's profession. The objective is that during the years 2024 to 2027, the proportion of women admitted to the officer programme should be 30 per cent. They are working on this to get a progressively better situation. As far as the right to childcare is concerned, work is ongoing. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council have started work on war organisation and placement that runs from 2019 to 2020. We have a journey to make in terms of civil defence and support for the Armed Forces. It was pulled down to a greater extent than military defense when the Cold War ended. It is still the municipalities that are responsible for access to childcare. I have not heard any proposal to change this system, but it is the principle of responsibility that applies here.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-26	Madam President, I would like There is a specific problem for families where parents are war-placed when it comes to what happens in case of increased preparedness. You can be war-placed within the Swedish Armed Forces, in health care or elsewhere. If there is increased preparedness, it is just as the Minister for Defence says that the law of duty applies. I don't know about the rest of you who are parents, but for me, the kids always go first. It can't be safe if you don't really know what's going to happen to the children if you have to step in and have to be war-placed. Will there be a functioning childcare system that allows both parents to be used so that they can defend Sweden if preparedness is increased? When Mr. and Mrs. Officer or any war-placed person is going to defend Sweden, Madam President, there must be security for their children. Otherwise, how is a war-placed person expected to do his duty if society does not stand up in return? I wonder why the government that calls itself feminist does not seem to have a greater interest in these issues. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is the principle of responsibility that applies. The municipalities should take responsibility. But then they must also be supported. Someone has to take leadership on this issue, lift it up and show that it is important. You have to show that the children and the family are important. We must therefore take responsibility in this matter.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-29	Madam President, I would like It is almost obvious that this kind of problem should be solved. But we start where we are, that is, in the remains after a powerful reduction in civil defence. These were issues which, during the time of the Right Alliance government, were definitely not handled in a good way. We have now begun the construction of military defence as well as of civil defence. But we're far from done. MSB and Sveriges Kommuner and Landsting are working on a work regarding war organisation and war placement. There is a need to look at the preparations required in the context of increased preparedness. Of course, the question of how to cope with childcare needs to be resolved. However, I have not yet heard a proposal to change the principle of responsibility in any way. As I said, there is an agreement that MSB and SKL will work on issues of war placement and organisation and the consequences of them. When it comes to working with the modern total defence, the focus in the relatively short time perspective we have had to deal with this has initially been on government agencies in order to ensure structure, division of tasks, readiness and clear management conditions. The municipalities have gradually become more and more involved together with the regions on how to develop this. This is a work in progress and there is no lack of attention or interest. I would like to highlight what I said earlier about the positive developments that we can note in the training of officers, the special training of officers and the training of specialist officers. With regard to the special training of officers, the increase is 31.1% in terms of the proportion of women. So there is a positive phase when it comes to getting more women into the officer's profession. In all the three parts I have now mentioned, we are on the plus side in terms of women's share in victim education. We will keep an eye on this, and we will continue to work on these issues together with the Swedish Armed Forces. But the job must be done within the framework of the authority. We have clearly indicated this in the regulatory letters. Compulsory service is a good basis for interested in a broad range of both men and women for a future profession within the Swedish Armed Forces. When we only had the international mission as our main focus, international missions also became to a large extent the recruitment base, and that was not enough. However, we have changed that now.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-35	Madam President, I would like Then be then, and now is. We can learn from what has happened and what has happened, but the problems we have today must be borne in mind here today. You can't blame something that's been. We need to clear up the problems that exist here and now. How can we attract more people to the Swedish Armed Forces? And how can we keep more within the Armed Forces? Do you need to review recruitment? Should you start earlier, perhaps already in primary school, to talk about career opportunities within the Swedish Armed Forces? I have a son who's about to go to prao. He had been very assisted by information about the Swedish Armed Forces. Perhaps it would have attracted him and his friends to the Swedish Armed Forces in the future. How can we keep the staff we have? How can we enable and modernise working methods so that one can combine a career within the Swedish Armed Forces with a family? You might have a family that doesn't want to move land and kingdom around. Above all, we must ensure that all municipalities take the responsibility they should take when it comes to the care of children placed in war if there is increased preparedness. The war-placers should feel confident that when they defend Sweden, society takes responsibility for their children.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-39	Madam President, I would like Life is not as simple as then being then and now is. What was then lays a foundation for what we have to deal with now. It is part of the responsibility that the Right Alliance government cannot get away from or talk its way past. The problems we have now are those we are trying to address. I have listed a number of positive trends on the officer program, the specialist officer program and the special officer training. Perhaps we could still see that we have a positive development, which we now need to support in different ways. It can be ensured that the increased goals of the Armed Forces for the recruitment of women are maintained. At least that's the government's opinion and ambition. This is also the signal to the Swedish Armed Forces. There is also ongoing work within SKL and MSB on how to deal with war placement issues, war organization and issues such as these. Within the framework of the principle of responsibility that exists, which is valid and which I do not understand to be disputed, issues of childcare in connection with military deployments should also be addressed. Here it is the municipality that has the ultimate responsibility. Of course, it is possible to have safe childcare facilities in the event of recourse to the tasks of the military placement. I do not know if our views differ here in any deeper sense. Perhaps there is in the whole political weighting that one can think about. But the government's firm ambition is to continue working and strengthen the positive results we have seen.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-44	Madam President, I would like Mr Zander has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the administrative burden on companies on sick leave. Research has shown that rehabilitation where medical interventions are combined with workplace measures are the most effective for a sick leaver to return to work. This is the knowledge behind the employer's drawing up, as of 1 July 2018, a plan for the return to work of workers who have been on sick leave for 30 days, if it can be assumed that the illness will last for at least 60 days. Employers' obligations have been combined with workplace rehabilitation support for employers. This can be used for measures that help prevent sick leave and increase the chances of sick workers returning to work. The support can be used to purchase expert support through occupational health care or other organisers. This is particularly important for smaller employers who often do not have the same experience with long-term sick leave. In order to support work at the workplace, the Social Insurance Agency has been tasked with improving its interaction with, among others, employers and conducting more meetings with them in order to make it easier for workers to get back to work. The rehabilitation coordination function proposed by the Government should also facilitate contacts between health services and employers and facilitate employers' compliance with their rehabilitation responsibilities. The Government has also commissioned the Social Security Inspection to monitor and evaluate employers' obligation to prepare plans for a return to work. ISF will also evaluate the financial support to employers and how the Social Insurance Agency uses the plans in its management. The collaboration between Försäkringskassan and the Swedish Work Environment Agency will also be monitored and evaluated. The evaluation shall be carried out with a gender perspective. The assignment shall be sub-reported on 30 November 2020 and shall be reported on the same date in 2021. I share Mr Zanders's view that administrative burdens on smaller employers should be kept as low as possible. The need to support them in drawing up rehabilitation plans is part of this work. I also believe that Solveig Zander agrees with me that it is important that employees in smaller companies should also receive good support to get back to work after illness.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-52	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister very much for his reply. Of course, we are in complete agreement with regard to the connection to work, and there is no doubt that medical intervention is important and really helps the sick worker get back to work more quickly. But it's about working preventively, so that you don't have to be on sick leave. I wonder, of course, what the Minister is doing about it. It is not easy to come back once you have been on sick leave for 30 days or 60 days. Now you from the government have introduced a system where the employer should know how long a person is on sick leave. That's what it's all about. You're supposed to draw up a plan. This is combined with the employer being able to apply for a workplace-oriented rehabilitation allowance – that is what the Minister means, I suppose. This places the greatest responsibility on the employer and the entrepreneur. How does the Minister think it would reduce the administrative burden? That's what I'm asking. The employer should therefore know that you are ill for more than 60 days. However, the doctor cannot provide the information to the employer unless the employee himself agrees to it. I wonder if the minister has thought about it. In addition, Försäkringskassan may refuse the medical certificate. How should the employer know before it starts with its plan? It is also the case that the grant application to Försäkringskassan should be made retrospectively, that is, the year after measures have been taken to facilitate return to work. This, of course, means that the employer is extremely insecure and must contact an enormous number of bodies and people. It takes time, and it is a workload for an employer. Three out of four companies are one-man companies. They're not entitled to this at all. They can't make a rehabilitation plan for themselves. Last week, the Minister and I discussed how difficult it is for an entrepreneur to have his earnings for sickness benefit determined, if they get one at all. What do the minister and government do for the employee in this regard? In fact, it is in small businesses that jobs are created. We'll take care of the companies. I really have to come back to my question: how is the administrative burden on companies in the sick leave process reduced? What does the Minister say about that?
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-58	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Zander for the interpellation, for the intervention and, not least, for the commitment to the issues relating to the relationship between social security and entrepreneurship. I can assure Solveig Zander that I and the government intend to work actively on these issues. I really appreciate that there is a commitment to those issues in this house through Solveig Zander. With regard to the specific issue of the employer's responsibility, the obligation imposed on employers has been preceded by a proper work in which the government and parliament have taken part in research in this area on how we can improve the rehabilitation efforts for sick people in the best possible way. The Research Council Forte was asked to look at the questions about which methods prove to be most effective. Forte also looked at the international experience. The conclusion of this knowledge compilation was that rehabilitation involving workplace interventions is more effective for returning to work than other rehabilitation. It is simply a matter of focusing rehabilitation efforts in the workplace if possible. This is the basis for the decision taken by the Riksdag to introduce the obligation to draw up a plan to strengthen rehabilitation. This applies to employees who have been on sick leave for 30 days, if one can assume that the illness will last for at least 60 days. It is therefore an assumption that the employer should make. How extensive is the plan to be? On account of Solveig Zanders's interpellation, I had to dive deep into that question. You can look at the evidence available. There are really no formal requirements on the content of the plan, on the subject of administrative burden. It should be about what should be done to make it easier for a worker to return to work. I would think that most, not least small businessmen, have that perspective from the start. Of course, the vast majority of entrepreneurs do not want a development where their employees are on sick leave. It is serious entrepreneurs who contribute to growth and development in our country. What the government and parliament have done is that we have found a method of providing support to entrepreneurs with, among other things, compensation so that rehabilitation efforts can also be carried out in smaller companies and not only in the large ones who have the resources. An estimate has been made that such a plan takes an average of about 20 minutes to produce. If you look at the bill decided by the Riksdag, it is mentioned in the example of what can be included in the plan, which also lacks formal requirements. It provides for the possibility of working on a fixed-term basis, i.e. part-time sick leave, adaptation of the workplace or work tasks, temporary or permanent relocation, the need for technical aids and the need for retraining to other tasks. Solveig Zander, who is well acquainted with both social security and not least the conditions for entrepreneurs, knows that this is a job that entrepreneurs normally do. But then we must ensure that the aid is there. Solveig Zander is absolutely right. We need to look at how we can work so that it does not impose a heavy administrative burden. We'll get a map of the ISF next year. Let's take that aspect with us. Is there anything in this that is administratively burdensome for no reason? Then we'll just have to deal with it. No one wants an administrative burden unnecessarily, of course.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-67	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister. The minister says it'll take 20 minutes. Given that I told you how many different parts of the report you have to take part of and have contact with, such as the Public Employment Service, the Health Service and so on, I do not think the Minister himself thinks it only takes 20 minutes, because that is not the case. It might take 20 minutes to fill out a piece of paper. But before you get to it, and with what is required before and after, it takes far longer than 20 minutes. I can promise you that. I also meant what you do so that people don't get sick. What do the minister and government intend to do to prevent people from getting sick leave? It's one of the core points. I also wonder: why does the government not change the possibility of being on sick leave of 25, 50 and 75 % to other parts than just those parts? Perhaps it is enough to be on sick leave 10 percent or 60 percent. But that is not possible today. This is an important part of gradually returning to work. If you have different parts regarding the possibility of going back to work, this means that people can then report afterwards to the Social Insurance Agency if they did any job. Why don't you look at it? Doesn't the minister and government trust that the companies really want their employees back? We know that every day that an employee is gone is a cut in the income of an employer, given that most employers are small businesses. Why do the government and the minister not introduce a more flexible labour market where there is even better support and systems for conversion, retraining and further training so that it is also an opportunity to change jobs if you cannot remain in the workplace? It should also be possible to get into what is about having a shorter absence. Why does it not help to finance it with financial coordination through the coordination associations? They are good at this by helping people not get sick, that they return to work and that they find what they can work with. Why don't you? Why do you impose a larger administration on employers? That is indeed the main issue in this respect. It's not really helping the one who's sick. You removed the tax exemption so that workers could have insurance for their employees. You introduced the care tax. But now you're going to spend money on help making plans. Are the plans more important than getting people to health care before they get sick? You handle money and sick leave in an incredibly strange way. Why don't you build faith in health insurance? This laboratory makes people insecure.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-73	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Solveig Zander, for the post! That's a lot of questions. I'll try to answer them. The first was: What are we doing in preventive work? Solveig Zander himself has been very involved in the processes that are partly linked to the pension agreement, which is about a sustainable working life. Solveig Zander must have recognition for those efforts. We know that there are a number of processes under way. This includes joint collaboration between the parties and the Government. It is about making working life more sustainable and specifically improving the working environment. I think those efforts need to be intensified. In recent weeks we have looked at: What can we do to more clearly follow developments in the working environment? This is an issue that I intend to discuss with the parties. Within the framework of the pension agreement, we have a continuous dialogue with the parties on this work. But I think we need to step up that work. There is reason to come back to the issue of prevention. I have to admit that during the time that I was Minister of Civil Affairs and visited a great many publicly funded activities both on the private side and the activities that are in municipal direction, I became concerned about the development of the working environment in the contact professions where people meet citizens, users. It can be said that there is a great deal to be done for the working environment there. This applies not least to our nurses. It's tough. It has to do with the staffing being slumped for a long time. We need to come back to that issue. With regard to the specific issues of financial incentives for entrepreneurs and employers to work on these issues of rehabilitation and prevention, I am pleased that we now have budget cooperation between the government and, among other things, the Center Party. It is clear that in the framework of the January agreement, there is a great deal of touching on these issues. Among other things, Solveig Zander knows that there is a package of reforms in the January agreement specifically related to the transition and mobility of the labour market. This work is very prioritised by the Ministry of Labour who, in close collaboration with representatives of the Center Party, conducts this process. Of course, this process is closely linked to health and good working environment. We intend to have a close dialogue with our friends at the Ministry of Labour. I call on Mr Zander to have a corresponding dialogue with the representatives of the Center Party who have a strong commitment to work-related issues. Madam President, I would like We still have a question to come back to. This concerns the first question raised by Mr Zander in his first speech. What are we doing to improve the working environment for self-employed workers without employees? It is a question that is touched on by the investigation that we discussed last time in this House when we talked about social security conditions for entrepreneurs. There is an investigation that was presented in September and that our friends at the Ministry of Industry are working on. It is definitely a relevant question raised by Solveig Zander. The work on employees' conditions must, of course, be supplemented by work on self-employed workers without employees and their conditions.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-81	Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister was: what measures does the Government intend to take to reduce the administrative burden on companies in connection with sick leave? I'll be honest and say that I don't think I've got an answer to the question. However, I appreciate that the Minister is also including pensions in this, because that is important. We know that most people on sick leave are women, and they really need to be able to be at work. I'm talking to a lot of people about sick leave. I did so last Tuesday when I spoke to a lady who, like many others, had been on sick leave. It was not the workplace, but she had an employer who in every way wanted to help her get back to work as soon as possible. But she was not allowed to be on sick leave; she was denied it by Försäkringskassan. She received a second opinion on the doctor's certificate that insisted that she could not work. But the Social Insurance Office rejected this. Now, of course, she has appealed it. How can you as an employee be able to participate in rehabilitation when you do not have any compensation during the time you cannot work full-time? This lady has now returned to work after a number of months, and her employer has worked hard on this to help her. However, the workload has increased for the employer. The Minister owes the answer to my question. I look forward to several debates, and I thank you very much for what we have had now.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-86	Madam President, I would like Solveig Zander concludes the interpellation with a relevant question. If we are to have this type of intervention at all, it assumes that the insured and sick leaver is entitled to financial security. Since 2006, developments in our country have led to an increasingly restrictive application of the provisions governing health insurance, including the right to sickness benefit. The changes made in connection with the change of power in 2006 are still effective today. I can assure Mr Zander one thing: on 31 January, I will receive the report on health insurance in the part concerning entitlement to sickness benefit. We, the government, will do everything we can to strengthen health insurance, because there is a need for reinforcements. Restrictiveness in the system means that a lot of people get hurt. I must say that I am delighted when there are bourgeois representatives who raise this. It didn't sound like that to me last term of office. But it doesn't matter; now we're going to work together and reach out one hand to each other. We will do what we can to ensure that the examples raised by Solveig Zander are not repeated. And it is not just empty words, but on 31 January the investigation will give us the basis for changing the regulatory framework. I look forward to working closely with Solveig Zander, the Center Party and all the Members of this House who are prepared to take responsibility for strengthening health insurance for employees and entrepreneurs.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-91	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me how I see young people between the ages of 19 and 29 getting their activity compensation withdrawn to such an extent and whether I was aware of the massive increase of 450 percent in the amount of withdrawn activity compensation for young adults before the media reported on it. He has also asked me what ongoing dialogue has taken place between the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and me during this period. Furthermore, he has asked me how a young adult with a disability who receives an activity benefit who, according to Arbetsförmedlingen, is unable to receive a subsidised or regular job – will be able to make it through and what measures I intend to take in the service to ensure that young adults with disabilities receive the help they need or the compensation necessary for them to be able to live in their own household. Those who cannot work because of illness or disability should receive the necessary rehabilitation and financial security. The Government has previously noted, among other things in the budget proposals for 2019 and 2020, that the proposed operating compensation has increased significantly in recent years. The government has been closely monitoring developments and has been prepared to take action. The new handling procedures of the Social Insurance Agency, which have been developed in the light of legal audits, have made visible the consequences of the regulatory framework introduced in 2008 by the then alliance government. It has become clear to me and the government that support for this group needs to be reviewed. Young adults with illness or disability are a vulnerable group with a need for community support. Therefore, the government will review the protection of these people. This also applies to the activity compensation. Pending the review, a number of measures have been developed in the near future based on the problem picture identified over the past year. In this work, dialogue with Försäkringskassan has been of great importance. The Government has acted to ensure that those who are refused their application for activity compensation receive help and support. In August 2019 it was decided to give an assignment to Försäkringskassan to strengthen support for young people who are denied their application for activity compensation. Through its processing, Försäkringskassan has the opportunity to identify individuals' needs for intervention and support, as well as their need for government contacts. The Social Insurance Agency is thus well placed to guide the individual to the right actor in advance of and in connection with the refusal decision. For example, in addition to labour market policy interventions from the Employment Service, a person may need treatment interventions from the health care system and financial assistance from the municipality. The purpose of the mission is to ensure that no one in the target group is between different responsibilities but receives the support needed to be able to work or study in the long term. I will, through dialogue with Försäkringskassan, keep myself informed of the work that follows from the assignment of increased support for young people who have received a rejection of their application for activity compensation. Stability is crucial for confidence in health insurance. Large variations in insurance outcomes despite the unchanged regulatory framework are at risk of adversely affecting confidence. Therefore, the Government has commissioned the Social Security Inspection, the ISF, to analyse the reasons for the variation in refusals and the re-granting of activity compensation. In view of the fact that the balance between Försäkringskassan's investigative obligation and the individual's liability may vary depending on the relationship in the individual case, the Government has also commissioned ISF to examine and analyse how Försäkringskassan applies the obligation to investigate cases concerning sickness benefit and activity compensation where the application for compensation has been rejected. For me, it is obvious that health insurance should provide security in the event of illness and disability. I welcome the shared commitment of the moderate interpellant.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-101	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The group we are talking about now is perhaps the group that needs the support of society most. The person born with a disability has not made an active choice. The person who is born with a disability has ended up in a life situation that you can neither plan, predict nor otherwise influence. That means, Madam President, that society has an unabated responsibility to help this group and ensure that it receives the support of society. That's why we pay taxes. That is why we are in solidarity. That is why society has decided that we should have this support. It is no secret that I tend to be critical of SVT News, but I would like to thank SVT Öst for their series of articles. I would like to thank the Swedish Radio for highlighting this major social problem. This information came in my flow, and it had flown under my radar. There has not been any great news on the national news, unfortunately, but it may come. SVT's review shows that 1 500 young adults between the ages of 19 and 29 have lost their earnings in the first months of this year – 1 500 young adults! I have read all the articles that SVT Öst has published – I hope the Government has done the same. I've spoken to interest groups. Then it becomes clear that it is a revolution that has been going on during the radar, revolution in the sense that two state authorities make completely different interpretations of what work capacity is. I have several cases from my own constituency in Gävleborg. For example, P4 Gävleborg has brought up a boy named William. He can't work at all. The Social Insurance Agency says he can work, while everyone else – including Arbetsförmedlingen, the doctors, the relatives and the staff of daily operations – says that it is not possible. It is not possible for William to cope with regular work. What happens then? Well, William is assigned to support, what we used to call welfare. So that is the next violation, Madam President. First, an authority says to William: You have the ability to work. The other authority says: You have no ability to work. The staff of day - to - day operations say: It is not possible that William would be able to do a regular job. The doctors shake their heads and say: It is not possible. Then I am concerned when the Government says in its reply that support for livelihoods would be an option for William and everyone else in this vulnerable situation. I would have liked the Government to have been clear and said that it is not acceptable to increase 450 % in this short time. It is not acceptable for Försäkringskassan to say that we should refer young disabled people to subsistence support. It's a violation. The provision aid has never been for this target group, people who, due to illness, will never have the opportunity to get a regular job. There will be no magical wonder that you wake up on Monday and suddenly get rid of your illness. That's not gonna happen. That is why we have the social security system. That is why we have once in the world introduced these security systems, precisely because of William and other vulnerable people in the same situation.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-108	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I have written a question in this area which has been on its way to the Council of State, following the case report of 11 November on Daniel and all the others that this is all about. The agency Försäkringskassan has the task of ensuring that people can get help and support and then a transition to Arbetsförmedlingen, where they can get a job in the regular labour market. It is something you wish for everyone else, and it is in itself very positive. But far too few have had this opportunity over the years. They could have had it, and it could have worked well. This in itself is due to the need for a number of support measures to make it safe for the individual. On various occasions, I have visited companies that work privately, outside the Public Employment Service, to get young people to work. They have built up a rigorous system where they themselves hold the entire support and help and are a backup to the company for it to be safe for the individual. As I said, many parts should work. Just like when everyone else is looking for work, you can come to places where you don't like it. It can have many different explanations. It should also fit with the workplace, and it takes time. There are cultures and things that we say are sitting in the walls when it comes to how it should work, and because the individuals are in a situation where they need support and help, it becomes particularly urgent. I think it is very positive if these young people can get out and get a place on the regular labour market. However, I share Lars Beckman's great concern about what this means. It hasn't worked painlessly so far. Two authorities that have two different interpretations of work capacity lead to something that one does not want. There is a great deal of concern – and we can see that it has already begun for 1,500 young people – that one should end up between the chairs and be seated at home. If these young people, who need activities to get out, are to be in support with home-sitting, they often become depressed – it is all the same – with medication and, in the worst case, suicide as a result when you see this chaos in your life. So there is a huge need for a bridge or bridge between these authorities. Both authorities should have a responsibility to never let these individuals go without focus. It is also not just about a transition, it is about being able to try a job and that there is a built-up system around it, and also about being able to take the road back and that there should always be a security that makes you as an individual feel good on the way when this happens. Today I have two questions for the Government. Does the Minister see that he is on his way, given the statement that has been made, towards introducing a bridge or bridge of this kind that creates this security on two sides, so that you can walk both one way and the other and that it follows the individual? Then we need a completely new structure that private parts already have but that Arbetsförmedlingen does not work with. I would also like to ask, in relation to the answer to Lars Beckman, about the great variations in the outcome of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. These are to be analysed, but the authority itself has to do an analysis and look at what makes them have different answers. I think that's in the agency's mission.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-117	Madam President, I would like I am sincerely pleased by this interpellation and by the fact that two moderate Members of Parliament have stood up for health insurance in this House. I am extremely happy about that. What Lars Beckman points out in his interpellation is a major problem in our society, and it is the responsibility of the government and parliament to act. As Lars Beckman said, it is the most vulnerable who are affected by the application and development that we have had since the law was amended after the change of power in 2006. Madam President, I would like These two Members of Parliament – I have also had interpellation debates in the past with two other moderate members of parliament – deserve recognition. That is not what moderate proposals in this House look like. When we say that we now want to do a review to strengthen health insurance and solve the problems of activity and sickness benefit, the Moderates are going the other way in their budget exercise. It is still not decided in this Chamber, Lars Beckman. What does the budget bill say? Well, the Moderates want to seriously reduce health insurance:
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-123	These moderate proposals, which have still not been decided in this House, are intended to finance tax cuts. Madam President, I would like That I am so happy with this interpellation is because I remember when the Moderates presented their budget motion. I brought the newspaper article here. The title, which the moderate party leadership and Ulf Kristersson, former Minister of Social Security, were proud of, was: Lower taxes and lower compensation for the sick. It is amazing that there are now four moderate members of parliament who want to move in a different direction. My call to you is: let us fight together to improve sickness and activity benefits! The first step is to go against the moderate budgetary motion in this House which proposes these severe deteriorations in health insurance. I promise, Madam President, that I will stand here and pay tribute to Lars Beckman if it is not just empty words that the activity allowance, sickness benefit and health insurance will be improved and if Lars Beckman is prepared to come to this House on the day the budget motion is to be decided and stand up and say: I say no to Ulf Kristersson's, Anders Borg's and Fredrik Reinfeldt's deterioration of health insurance! I say no to the moderate budget motion that wants to further reduce health insurance, and I am prepared, together with the government, to improve health insurance! The most urgent issue is activity compensation, sickness benefit and sick money. I will pay tribute to Lars Beckman if it is not only empty words but also plays a role in how Lars Beckman and the other moderate MPs who are critical of this development are prepared to vote. Let's work together for the most vulnerable! Let us say no to the policy that began to be implemented after the change of power in 2006! It is probably time to put an end to that policy. The government intends to make proposals to change this. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I hear the commitment and would like to remind Members and ministers of the tone of the House. )
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-129	Madam President, I would like We just heard the Prime Minister spend four minutes debating with himself something that the issue and the interpellation are not at all about. I can remind the government who introduced the LSS. Who was it that gave disability rights in Sweden? Yes, it was Carl Bildt and his government in 1991-1993. We therefore have nothing to be ashamed of, on the contrary. I think the Government is arguing well. As I said in my first speech, society has a responsibility to protect society's most vulnerable. The person who has been born with a disability has not made that choice and will not be healthy, unlike the one who can sometimes possibly have a withdrawal day. Instead, we can use these resources for the weakest in society. That's why we gave much more money to LSS than the government did – we Moderates protect those who need LSS. We'd be happy to have an interpellation debate on health insurance. I understand that the Government wants to debate everything except what the interpellation is about. What my interpellation is about – I would like to remind the Government that the government has thus been in power since 2015 – is the sharp increase in ex-securities from the actual activity compensation. There has been a dramatic increase, just as the Government read out in its reply. This is a 450% increase in the last few years. To my knowledge, it is precisely the government that has the power in Sweden. It is the government that can govern its authorities. One problem, then, is the interpretation of the concept of work capacity. People who are young and have a disability have ended up between the chairs. They have ended up between Försäkringskassan's definition of how work capacity should be assessed, where adapted jobs should also be included, which means that if you have an adapted job with wage subsidies or other activities, you have work capacity, and Arbetsförmedlingen, which, on the other hand, believes that young people with, for example, intellectual disabilities do not have work capacity. So that is the problem, the Council of State. You have two government agencies that make two completely different assessments. What does that mean? Well, that means William in Ljusdal doesn't have money for food. William says, "I'm saving my food, that's all I can do. The doctor in Ljusdal is upset. The manager of the day-to-day business thinks it is the ultimate violation that William is referred to support. But the Government stands here and happily says in its answer that the Social Insurance Agency will guide these young people further in society, for example to support for living. I would have liked the Government to say: No, a young person who has been born with a severe disability and who goes on daily activities and gets his activity benefit withdrawn from the Social Insurance Agency because they make a different interpretation of the concept of work capacity than the Public Employment Service, of course, should not be referred to subsistence support. We have never thought that the support is for young disabled people who are kicked out of Försäkringskassan. It's never been that way. Then it could be added that the state transfers a cost to the municipalities in a way that was not intended either. Can't the Government show the same commitment and the same ferocious excitement that it's wrong to send young disabled people to the support as he does on other issues?
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-136	Madam President, I would like Not a word has been said here about the mission of the authorities and the bridge, the bridge, for joint responsibility which my question to the Government was about in terms of creating security for the young people we are debating here today and who have a disability which means that they are either with the Social Insurance Agency in daily activities or leave that life and move on to the regular labour market. It's a problem if security doesn't exist all the way. As it is now, 1 500 people have fallen out of the system between these authorities. That is what we are discussing. I'll give you a brief look back. Like now, in 2006, there were a number of young people who were already in early retirement in their 20s and were therefore no longer in the labour market. Therefore, the government chose to find a system that could control and ensure that people could return to the labour market along the way. It cannot be reasonable for people in their 20s to leave the labour market and never return before retirement at the age of 65. That was the mission. Lars Beckman has explained the other parts very well. So there is a difference between being healthy and getting sick and then being able to come back and having a lifelong disability. I'll ask my question again. I would like answers on whether the Minister is willing to ensure that there are two authorities that take joint responsibility, that never lets the individual go and that we can get these young people out in the best possible way, via either the Social Insurance Agency or the Employment Service and never in between.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-140	Madam President, I would like I will give you very clear answers to the questions. No, it is not appropriate or acceptable for young people with disabilities and without work capacity to be referred to subsistence support. That is totally unacceptable. That was not the idea of social security. Now we are beginning to see the effect of legislation being too restrictive. The government tightened up the labour market concept of activity compensation in 2008. This meant that the ability to work should be tested against the entire labour market, including employment with a wage subsidy or at Samhall. Now we are beginning to see the effects of the application of the legislative amendment implemented in 2008. Is it the government's responsibility to act? Yeah. Are we going to act? Yeah. Will we work to change the regulatory framework? Yeah. But it can't just be empty words. What Lars Beckman did raises hope. It is thought out there that there are also moderate Members who see this. Do not let that hope be disappointed! I promise, Madam President, that I and the government will do our part. We will do what we can to change this regulatory framework so that young people who are disabled without a work capacity and others who are insured without a work capacity can have access to the social insurance they are entitled to. Will the Moderates here stand on the right side? We have a vote in December on the budget. It includes the moderate party leadership's proposal for cuts and deteriorations in health insurance and our other social insurance policies. Will Lars Beckman go against his party leadership? That answer is Lars Beckman who owes it to those who sit here and listen. We have heard a good, relevant speech, with just criticism of the order we have today. But will righteous criticism be followed by action? The most important document for the honourable Members of this House concerns the button to be pressed when voting. The words don't mean anything. It is the votes that are the tools of this House to make an impression and bring about change. Will the honourable Members of Parliament go against the moderate party leadership and vote against the budget motion which is now on the table of the Riksdag, which is about reducing health insurance? That is the answer that Members owe to the audience and the public. I promise that we will do what we can to resolve the situation that Lars Beckman has rightly clarified in this debate. This applies to the activity allowance, sickness benefit and the right to sickness benefit. As early as 31 January, Madam President, there will be an inquiry into the concept of work capacity and the labour market test. We will handle the investigation and do what we can. Will the Moderates stand on the right side? Or is the policy presented in the budget motion maintained? Is Lars Beckman behind the announcement that the Riksdag has sent to me and the government to reinstate the backlog in health insurance? Or is Lars Beckman prepared here and now, in this House, to distance himself from those proposals?
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-147	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government spent three out of four minutes speaking time talking about things that are not at issue. I have seen a systematic approach in how the Social Democratic Government has acted against Sweden's disabled people. We have seen how the LSS has been destroyed in seven different ways; of course, the Government knows which ones. It does not list the compensation to municipalities and companies performing. You make sure people lose their LSS. We have even seen how women have died in the toilet in Malmö because they have had their assistance withdrawn. We have seen how the car support has failed because of government policy. And this interpellation is about the system with which Försäkringskassan has ensured that young adults between the ages of 19 and 29 have lost their activity compensation during the first eight months of 2019. Let me remind you – perhaps unknown to the Government – that we have had a Social Democratic government for five years. I hear the government uses different time concepts. I am also pleased to note that the Government has made two comments today. The first one he gave when he read out the answer that someone had written for him. It was then acceptable for young people to go to support for their livelihoods – just what the Social Insurance Agency says in the interview in SVT Öst: Yes, we will guide these people on to support for their livelihoods; we have been given a government assignment. However, I note that the Government gave a new message in the last speech: it is totally unacceptable that young people who are disabled should end up in support of their livelihoods. I am pleased that I and the Government are in complete agreement, and I assume that the Government will act swiftly on this matter.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-152	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman and Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the debate. I would like to make it clear that what is stated in the reply about the Social Insurance Fund's support for those who have been rejected concerns the current regulatory framework. It is applied because the Swedish Parliament has passed that law. However, my message is that this law needs to be changed, and we will therefore start a review. The support for the young people who have been rejected must be given as long as we have not been able to change the law. That is what happens when we vote in this House. It is now so important that Lars Beckman and all the Members of this House take that reminder with them. When the right to health insurance after the change of power in 2006 deteriorated by this House, this was applauded. Now we are beginning to see the effects of legislation, so it matters what law it makes. Now we see examples of this. Are we prepared to change the law? Yeah. We will act. We will ensure that people do not end up in a situation where they are affected by two conflicting decisions by two different government authorities. The state has the obligation to focus its citizens. Social security is not an ugly part of our society, which is going to deteriorate and which is going to finance tax cuts. Social security is a fundamental part of our social model and our security. They've been under severe attack since 2006. Now is the time to reverse that trend. I am pleased that there are moderate Members who are prepared to take a stand, but this is a duty. How will this House vote when these issues are on the agenda? That's what decides in the end.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-158	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me if Sida's administrator does enough to check and document how high fees Sida's partner pays out and if I see a risk of Sida fertilising an unhealthy industry culture. In addition, Ludvig Aspling has asked if I see a need for stricter guidelines regarding what salary levels among partners that Sida should be able to accept. Tackling unfair wages is important for the effectiveness and credibility of aid. Sweden, through Sida and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, is conducting the issue internationally, in dialogue with our partner organisations, within the UN system and in other multilateral bodies. Sida also continuously reviews its own processes based on results from monitoring of operations and as operations change. In terms of wages specifically within development cooperation, Sida continuously engages in a dialogue about reasonable wage levels with both other donors and partners. Sida's projects often require special expertise, which can mean a certain salary level, but Sweden should not be wage-driven. This is a balancing process Sida must work with continuously. We see a trend towards increasing wages, which is not a desirable development, and Sida is actively working to counteract this. Therefore, the answer to the question is whether Sida would affect and exacerbate a negative industry culture in this area no. I and the government believe that both the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Sida are working towards a healthier culture, and Sweden will continue the important work of contributing to more reasonable wage levels overall.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-162	Madam President, I would like In September this year Sida froze the payments to the organisation African Enterprise Challenge Fund after an in-depth audit showed that the leadership in that organisation spent a lot of money on salaries and benefits for themselves. Last year, Sida concluded the cooperation with another organisation for the same reasons. According to Sida's instructions for administrators, these should provide information on the management salaries of partner organisations and in particular be able to justify the levels. I find it a little strange that, in the present case, we are reacting to high management fees in an audit, i.e. ex post, when we should be aware of wage levels from the outset. I therefore asked how much the operational manager for 20 of Sida's partners earns. For 11 of these, Sida had no information whatsoever about compensation. For 5 organisations, there was a reference to a certain salary category in the World Bank's system, which means a remuneration of approximately SEK 1.25 million to SEK 2.8 million per year. Only in 4 out of 20 cases did Sida know the actual number. One of these cases, Slum Dwellers International, increased its director's salary by 332 percent immediately after they received a promise of new money from Sida in mid-2018, which should be a warning bell. Another case is the already severely scandalous Clinton Health Access Initiative, where the CEO, who is a person who already has a fortune that counts in hundreds of millions of SEK, with Sida's good memory picks out 4.7 million SEK per year. Madam President, I would like This is a clear sign of a very unhealthy industry culture that Sweden continues to fatten by not setting clear requirements or setting reasonable limits. A large part of the problem is the so-called one-percent target, which creates incentives for Sida to look between fingers at shortcomings in partners. Since Sida ultimately has to pay out an enormous amount of money to reach the goal, the partners always have the upper hand in negotiations. If these collectively decide to set salaries and benefits far above, for example, CEO salaries in Swedish industry, Sida can only ignore its own regulations and stop asking. In the long run, this effect threatens the Swedish people's confidence in aid as an idea. I would therefore like to put a very simple question to the Minister for Development. In the instruction to Sida's administrator, in section 8, which deals with salaries, it says this. It's only available in English. I quote, Salary c osts. Find information about what the salary levels are for all staff categories including salary levels for management. In addition, ask wether tax, bene f its, bonuses, social security etc are included in the salary costs. In a situation where Sida has no idea what the head of a particular partner organisation earns before starting to pay out money, the administrators have then satisfactorily complied with the rules laid down in chapter. 8, about wages?
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-169	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ludvig Aspling, for the question! Ludvig Aspling highlights several different organisations and situations in the interpellation. He seems to think that the very corruption case that has been in the African Enterprise Challenge Fund would be a sign of lack of anti-corruption work at Sida or poor control. But it was actually through Sida's procedures and audit that the agency discovered that the CEO without Sida's consent had received an unreasonable salary increase after the collaboration had begun. The payments were stopped then, and after an investigation, the CEO had to leave his mission. This shows that the work is working. Then there are other cases where Sida does not seem to have reacted to the same extent. You can question whether they should not have done that. For my part, since I took office as a minister in this area, I have worked to strengthen the fight against corruption and abuse. We believe that the money we spend on aid should be spent on effective work against poverty and oppression. These are important issues to take care of so that we can have a decent strong trust among the Swedish people that we do a good job in this area. One important thing that we have done in connection with the budget that the Riksdag is currently working on is to strengthen Sida's administrative grant significantly. This means that we will now be able to employ more inspectors and more people who follow projects and collaborations at local and national level to a greater extent. You will be able to do more follow-up and evaluations and also react when you see that the money is not being used properly. This is necessary, because we work in contexts and situations in different countries where corruption is often high. I am currently from Congo-Kinshasa, which has a high degree of corruption and is also one of the poorest countries in the world. There are an extremely large number of people who are in great need of both humanitarian aid and support in order to achieve development. Corruption, as I see it, is perhaps the most important obstacle to development at all. Sida has also realised and produced a new paper, a document, with a policy that strengthens the work against corruption in the organisation. It was adopted last summer, on 27 June, if I remember correctly. Let's go the same way. We strengthen the work in several ways by focusing more on the work of democracy than before. We are working to see corruption as a central issue of democracy.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-175	Madam President, I would like Peter Eriksson calls it corruption. However, I would like to say that a large part of the problem lies in the fact that it is not really about corruption. In the case that I raise in the interpellation, the African Enterprise Challenge Fund, Sida has so far chosen not to report the police, and that is precisely because one cannot see that there has been a crime. The fund is, of course, an independent legal organisation that can basically manage its own money as they want. It's the crux of it. The Government of Peter Eriksson says you need more controllers. I wonder whether it is precisely the size of the administration that is the problem or the fact that the administration seems to ignore the internal regulatory framework. I would say that it is rather the latter that is the problem. Sida can employ 15 more controllers, but if they don't ask how much a particular organisation pays out in salary, it doesn't matter. At least you won't know. The fact that it is all because you act in environments that are difficult does not hold for explanation either. Of course Sida acts in environments that are difficult. We all know that, and I understand that. But the previous case I mentioned, where Sida froze the payments last year, concerned an organisation based in Switzerland. Switzerland is a rich country with very little corruption, but yet it was the case that one of Sida's partners, who has received a pretty substantial sum over the years, was able to spend their money on their own pleasures. So one cannot blame the fact that the environment is the problem, but instead it is the industry culture that is the problem. That's what I'd like to say. In the interpellation response, the Government also says this when it comes to wage levels: I would therefore like the Government to answer a rather simple question in the next line change: how is there a dialogue on reasonable wages if you do not ask and if the organisations do not provide information on how much wages they pay? It is not a dialogue but rather a monologue in that case. That is a rather simple question to which I would like an answer.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-179	Madam President, I would like In most respects, Sida meets its partners on several occasions and has a continuous discussion and follow-up of how the work goes. In the face of any new support given, a budget analysis is carried out, which examines the costs necessary and reasonable before considering the project. Annual independent audits are then carried out. In many cases, the work is also followed on the ground. When it comes to the follow-up work and the regular follow-up and controls, I think it is important to strengthen the work and Sida's opportunities. In fact, for ten years the administrative allocation has not been increased, and it does of course affect the possibility of allocating resources, because there are a great many different partners involved. Sida rarely runs its own development projects, but uses procurements and collaborates with a wide range of organisations. We also have to a large extent, as Mrs Aspling mentioned, cooperation with UN organisations that carry out the activities themselves. An important part of Sida's work is therefore to follow, check and participate in the work alongside to see that it works effectively. These are the resources that have not increased in over ten years. We have now made sure to adjust the amounts so that Sida can do an effective, modern job and become even better in the work against abuse and corruption, but also to strengthen the effectiveness of the aid work.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-183	Madam President, I would like I'm a little disappointed that I can't get a straight answer to the question. It is a fairly simple question: Is it possible to have a dialogue about reasonable wage levels within Sida's partners without asking them to disclose information about how high wages they pay? I would say that the answer to that question is no. You cannot have a dialogue without asking how much wages actually are. This means that what is said in the interpellation response, that Sida for a dialogue, is not true. There is no dialogue, because Sida does not know how much these people earn. It's pretty simple. Don't you ever think about what kind of signals you're sending out? I think it's very important to think about signals. How do partner organisations perceive Sida's approach to wage levels? That is a very important question. How do they feel that we are looking at this issue? If you don't even ask the question, how much will you pick out next year? It is quite obvious that they get the impression that Sweden does not care how much they pick out in wages. It naturally fattens the unhealthy industry culture. This goes without saying. Peter Eriksson indicated that something might have gone a little wrong. I think he should admit that this is not okay. When it comes to more than half of the organisations that I investigated, Sida has no idea how much they charge in wages. Actually, it's not okay. I would like to ask one more question quickly before closing the debate today. Researcher Elinor Ostrom, who has studied Sida, concluded in a special report that two thirds of the interviewed persons, who then worked at Sida, felt pressure to get the money away. The pressure from above was highest at the end of the financial year. Does the Minister for Development think it is a problem that Sida staff feel pressure to get the money away, and does it have any connection with the fact that they do not dig too much in what the organisations do with the money, for example regarding wages?
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-189	Madam President, I would like Every time Sida makes a decision to start a collaboration and start a project with a partner, you should do a budget analysis. Then you should also keep an eye on what wages there are. That's the task. Ludvig claims that they do not do this. It's possible you've missed it in some cases. If so, that is not good; I can certainly admit that. But I know that, in general, we have had problems with the lack of administrative appropriations. It has for quite a long time damaged the efficiency and opportunities for Sida to deal with these issues. It is not the case that over the last few years there has been too much money and has not had the opportunity to dispose of it effectively. On the contrary, we have had problems in recent years because the Swedish krona has fallen in value. It affects the possibility of effective assistance. This reduces the value of Swedish aid and has meant that we rather have the opposite situation: How can we manage to keep the same level as before even though the Swedish krona may have fallen by several tens of percent over the last two years? That is the concrete situation today. In addition, we are seeing a sharp increase in the needs of refugees around the world. Humanitarian aid needs to be increased. Environmental and climate issues require more and more resources, as this largely harms and affects people. There is an urgent need for an effective and rapid transition. But pay issues are important. I think Sida needs to do that. My picture is that this work has been strengthened, and we now have even more resources to manage it.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-193	Madam President, I would like Jessika Roswall has asked me a number of questions about Bypass Stockholm. Bypass Stockholm is part of the agreement reached in 2007 between the state negotiator and representatives of the Stockholm region on a comprehensive solution for the Stockholm region's future traffic and infrastructure investment. The County Administrative Board of Stockholm County Council, Stockholm County Council, the City of Stockholm and then the Swedish Road Administration and the Banverket have since signed an agreement from 2010 to co-finance investments in the Stockholm region according to the so-called Stockholm negotiations. At that time, the government established these efforts in decisions on the national plan for the period 2010 to 2021. On 11 March 2019 the Swedish Transport Administration decided to terminate the contract with the contractor who is building the tunnels under Lovön. The basis for the cancellation is a breach of contract with regard to the working environment in particular. Since then, the Finnish Transport Agency has been working on a new time s- and cost analysis for the entire project, and it is now ready. The main reasons why the project has an extended construction time and an increased cost are the geological conditions in certain sections of the mountain and the termination of the contract and work on the tunnels at Lovö n. It is of course important that ongoing infrastructure projects such as Bypass Stockholm be completed as soon as possible. At the same time, issues relating to the working environment and the safety of those working in the projects need to be taken very seriously. Having said that, I would like to stress at the same time that I take very seriously the delay and the cost incurred in the Stockholm bypass project. The possibility and appropriateness of possibly opening part of the route earlier is investigated. In the longer term perspective, Trafikverket needs to continue its work to improve its data, calculations and forecasts as well as implementation for large projects. It is too early today to respond to the possible impact this may have on other projects in the national plan.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-198	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. Bypass Stockholm is an infrastructure project that is of great importance for the whole country but, of course, especially for the Stockholm region. In the answer from the Minister for Infrastructure, we got a small exposé about how the project has progressed. Actually, I was going to do one of those, too. The discussion on Bypass has been going on for many decades. It actually started in the '60s. Finally, in 2006 the drawing that is now being worked on was advocated. In addition, the four-step principle was used in the Swedish Road Administration when deciding on this draw. Speaking of the Swedish National Audit Office's report yesterday on high-speed trains, I might think it would have been good if we did it also in other projects, but it is another debate. In any case, the bypass is important for traffic flows in Stockholm and the whole country. It started to be built in 2014 and was planned to be completed in 2026. As we know, the current government stopped work in autumn 2014. It was a stop from October 2014 to January 2015 with a cost of hundreds of millions of SEK for all of us, to no avail. It was just another delay. Perhaps that detail did not come out sufficiently in the Government's exposé. We have criticised this. What we did not know then was that that criticism has continued throughout this time. Then we have been reached with new information about costs. In November, a press release from the Swedish Transport Administration announced that the work will be delayed by four years and will cost 3.3 billion. It's very serious. That is why I asked the Minister for Infrastructure to come to the Transport Committee and explain this. It's happened. We have received an answer in committee and we have received an answer here today. Among other things, it is mentioned that the main reasons – now I read before in the answer we received today – for the project to have an extended construction time and an increased cost are the geological conditions in some sections of the mountain. This project has been planned since the 1960s. It's been talked about. They've been working on it for a long time. It's like nothing new. However, I cannot help but wonder how it is that we do not know or can plan for better investigations of the geological conditions. In the media, it has sometimes – recently, this autumn – been described as a fiasco and a scandal. Comparisons have been made with Hallandsåsen. Of course, I am not an engineer and am therefore not a woman to speak about it, but I may still find it a little strange. There are many questions about how things got this way. I have a general concern which I have raised on this issue and which I have also raised in committee. It is a general concern that the government and the Finnish Transport Agency are not able to carry out such large projects. We see other examples such as Ostlinken, which also flashes in costs. What are the consequences of this for other investments that we have to make? The answer to that question is, as we have heard the Minister for Infrastructure say, that it is too early to say. However, it is still a legitimate question, and I would like the Minister for Infrastructure to develop it. Reasonably, the work on national plans should go on. What are the consequences of this for other important investments?
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-207	Madam President, I would like Bypass Stockholm is one of the most expensive motorway projects in Sweden. It is also perhaps the most harmful infrastructure project we have today, for climate reasons. This is why this project was dismissed early on by a collective environmental movement and also by our expert authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Why? Well, the Stockholm bypass is based on a model of increased car traffic. In times of evasive emissions and a climate crisis, we need to reduce our emissions. We have also jointly stated that transport emissions will be reduced by 70% by 2030. These emissions are currently increasing. Now, as has been stated, we have received information from the Swedish Transport Administration that this construction is not only harmful to the climate, as I note, but also risks becoming a cuckoo who eats up other important funds to invest in the Stockholm region, not least in public transport. The construction will take four years longer and will cost an extra 3.3 billion. With the financial value of 2019, the pass-by will now cost SEK 39.5 billion. At this point, there can be nothing else to do but fix your mouth after your lunch and simply shrink the project or finish it altogether so that you stay within the financial framework. There is also another lunch that we need to adapt this project to, and that is the climate – our climate framework. We cannot build major motorways that lead to increased traffic and emissions. We are going to have a separate debate on this next week, but since we are having a debate here now, I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure: has the government taken measures to correct the mouth after the lunch, based on the fact that this is going to be much more expensive and on the fact that we have a climate target for the transport sector's emissions to be reduced by 70%? How does this objective coincide with the construction of a large and expensive motorway that will lead to increased car traffic? I want to know.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-213	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Jens Holm and Jessika Roswall! I have the greatest respect for not least Jens Holm's argument on the climate issue. It's incredibly important. Just so we remember correctly: the Stockholm bypass agreement was signed in 2007. This is a project that has been going on for a long time. The probability of interrupting is therefore quite small. It should be noted, however. However, it is of course the Finnish Transport Administration and the actors involved who determine the continuation and progress of the project, especially in terms of how to reduce the cost increase that has been and whether you can speed up work to keep the timetable. That's the responsibility. What strikes me, however, is that the discussion that there is also a technical change in the vehicle fleet is completely absent from Jens Holm. Sweden has most electric and hybrid cars in the EU right now – 14% of new car sales. It is clear that it will also affect road traffic emissions. It should therefore be remembered that even there the calculations change somewhat. Nevertheless, I am pleased to see that we are making major investments in rail systems and, not least, that in the Stockholm region we are doing so in subway systems. There are also some costs that are at risk of crowding out other urgent efforts. There is therefore a general concern about cost-effectiveness and cost control, obviously also in projects in the Stockholm region. To Mrs Roswall I would like to say that it is of course the Swedish Transport Administration that is now responsible for looking at the consequences of the asserting the agreement on Lovön. One should look at the consequences of the increases that have occurred and also see what conditions there are to reduce cost increases and speed up work. In the report you both took part in the Transport Committee, the Swedish Transport Administration said that they intend to open parts of the route earlier. However, I will probably refrain from making assessments if you have done the right geological studies before, and I also believe that Jessika Roswall will do so. We're not geologists. We're politicians. I have the greatest respect for the techniques that are doing their best to make good geological studies for infrastructure projects. I do not think that one deliberately ignores or misses anything, but, of course, one is doing one's best to create the best possible basis for design. But it happens, not only in Sweden but in the world, that you encounter trouble, and then you have to deal with it there and then. Of course, the basis should be as good as possible, as I also note in the answer to the question. It is important that Trafikverket continues to develop methods for design, planning and calculations. It is clear that cost-reimbursement is extremely serious. It is important, and it was right to break the agreement at Lovön when it was serious work environment crimes. I thought that was an important signal from the Finnish Transport Administration. However, it is equally important to act in order not to increase the cost of large infrastructure projects. I have also chosen to act here. I have invited representatives from the Stockholm region and Stockholm municipality to talk about both the Passage and other infrastructure projects. The most famous is the metro, where there has been a considerable increase in the Stockholm region's own project. Let us now discuss the consequences of this. There are agreements here that regulate the relationship of responsibility between the parties, but it is too early to give an opinion on the impact of this on national plans. It's only due to be revised in a few years.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-222	Madam President, I would like I also do not think that I or the Minister for Infrastructure should comment on the geological conditions. My point was rather that I believe that the Swedish people expect this to come when it comes to such large mega-projects that have been going on for so long and that should reasonably be well worked out. I am surprised, and I would have liked a clearer answer to have been given, perhaps on the committee. Perhaps I should have been better prepared there. Anyway, I'll give you some credit. Nevertheless, I think it is a good thing that the Minister for Infrastructure is calling a meeting. Of course, you meet the Finnish Transport Agency all the time, but do you also want to meet entrepreneurs? What's the next step? It still feels like it is important to keep track of this project and other projects so that they do not run away in time and cost. I have one question: what else does the Minister of Infrastructure intend to take on to ensure that it does not run away? I'm still worried. I do not think that I received enough answers in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, nor today. Is this the last thing we see now, or will we see even more of both delays and costs? The same is true when it comes to developing cost methods. That's also surprising. How can we not have gone further? Why don't we have a better track of the numbers? I understand that it is difficult to count on large projects, but I still think it would have been reasonable. Another explanation that we have heard – the Minister for Infrastructure has not raised this issue today – concerns the issue of procurement. It's the same thing there. My criticism is that I understand that there is reason to review the procurement rules, but I have noted that there will be further interruptions in the procurement for the Passage– which I assume will risk further delays. What are the procedures to ensure proper procurement? It's sad that for such an incredibly important and expensive project – as Jens Holm says – there are so many excuses instead of solutions. I would have liked us to have gone further. In the midst of all these, as I see it, excuses, I wonder what can happen so that there can be no further cost and delay.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-230	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure says that it is too early today to comment on the impact that the strong increase in the Stockholm bypass can have on other important projects that the state will build over the next ten years. Of course, it may be difficult to say in detail, but one thing that I think the Minister has to say here and now is that it is not on the map that we should shoot at 3.3 extra billion to the construction. The building already has a budget, and you get the right mouth after the lunch. Moving on to new billions to the construction of the motorway makes it clear that something else should be ironed on the foot. I am afraid that it will be investments in public transport in the Stockholm region that will receive less money, and it will therefore take longer to expand. It is also problematic that the Minister of Infrastructure easily refers to electric cars etc. and believes that it will be the whole solution when the Stockholm bypass is completed. It should be remembered that regardless of whether it is electric cars or other renewable fuels, particles are torn up when cars drive, congestion is created and so on. Then we all know that there will not be a fully electrified fleet of vehicles in ten years' time, although I would love to. We should not build new motorways in times of climate emergency.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-233	Madam President, I would like Let me remind you that the decision to build Bypass Stockholm was taken in 2007 and was taken into national plan in 2010. Jens Holm may have comments on this afterwards, but now we are where we are. I would never ignore the challenge of making sure that the fleet changes. We're going to reach the climate targets. That is why we electrify, have fuel reduction, have a reduction obligation for biofuels and find alternative ways to improve communications, not least with the help of large investments in rail and rail traffic. Then it is a concern that it is precisely the metro project in Stockholm that pulls away in cost mass and risks crowding out other urgent initiatives. For those who listen to the debate, it is important to know that the national plan contains about SEK 700 billion. Presenting the impact of a potential cost of 3.3 billion is not easy. They shall take place within the regular planning process that exists when the national plan is revised. It's important to make a point. There is a great responsibility at Trafikverket to ensure strict cost control, to look at the procurement experience. The Director-General of the Finnish Transport Administration has also publicly said that there is a concern about what is called subcontracting and underpricing with the procurement models that exist. I imagine that there will be a public debate in the future about which procurement model is right for infrastructure projects in the future. I think the most obvious thing I have said is that the Finnish Transport Administration has the responsibility to ensure that the construction can be carried out as efficiently as possible in terms of time and within the cost framework available. It is also, of course, a responsibility that I take to convene the actors to make a joint situation statement and hear the signatory parties – not the government, but the Swedish Transport Administration, the Stockholm region and the Stockholm municipality – who are responsible for managing the cost increase that is now taking place within the framework of the Stockholm bypass. It may also be necessary to highlight other cost increases in infrastructure projects in the Stockholm region. My way of taking responsibility is to convene the parties, to ensure that there is a common picture of the situation and to be clear to the Swedish Transport Administration about its responsibility for the implementation of the project.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-237	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate. I presented this interpellation and called the Minister for Infrastructure to the committee because I am genuinely concerned. It's an important project. I do not share Jens Holm's view that new roads do not need to be built because the Stockholm region and the country must work, and then all our modes of transport must work. But that is another part of the discussion. I am genuinely concerned about the Stockholm bypass because it is of great importance to the whole region and thus to the whole country. I am also concerned that the government is not aware of the cost situation of large mega-projects. I think there should have been more to answer my and Jens Holm's question about the consequences. It's been so long. This is not a new problem; there are other projects that have also incurred increased costs. I am absolutely sure that I agree with the Minister for Infrastructure that we – he, the government and all of us – want to avoid headlines of the type, Skandal, fiasco, a new Hallandsås! No matter which infrastructure project it may apply to. I therefore wonder whether there is any ongoing work in the government to review the actual development of the costs of mega-projects. There is a reason for my question with regard to Ostlänken, Bypass Stockholm and the subway. How can we keep the budget and get the projects ready on time? They are important for the whole of Sweden.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-242	Madam President, I would like I think we also agree. Of course, there should be strict cost control. Resources have been set aside for infrastructure investments to be carried out within a given framework. If cost increases occur, you have to engage in a dialogue on how to distribute them and place clear demands on the Finnish Transport Agency and entrepreneurs. They can then review what can be done to speed up projects and reduce costs. Detailed information on this was given to the members in connection with the Finnish Transport Administration's report in the Transport Committee. It is important that we also learn from the experience. That's what Trafikverket does. Methods for controlling major infrastructure projects are being developed. There are good examples when you have not only stayed within the budget but also been under the budget, a little depending on how you use the procurement models. This is the discussion about what requirements we will have in Sweden in the future, not least when we increasingly impose higher environmental requirements in procurements. That is absolutely necessary. There will be a need for innovation development in the implementation of large projects. It is not only a question of producing costs at a fixed time during a procurement procedure, but also of project development during the construction period, not least in order to achieve the greatest possible climate benefit. There is reason to deepen this discussion – perhaps not here in the interpellation debate but at another time. I repeat, it is a serious matter of cost. That is why I have reacted by calling not only the Finnish Transport Agency but also the signatory parties to have a proper review of the cost situation. I think it goes without saying that Trafikverket takes responsibility – and this is now being done – for both completion and cost control and, of course, to see if you can speed up the project. It is absolutely necessary, just as it is necessary that we continue to have a high level of ambition when it comes to infrastructure investments in Sweden. Sweden needs that.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-247	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me a number of questions about Arlandabanan.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-248	Since the initial contract was concluded in 1995, A-A-Train has had the opportunity to request an extension of the concession. That opportunity has now been exploited. The response to the A-TrainA-Train request for extension and negotiation of the terms rests entirely on AIAB. The government has not taken a decision on the matter. As Jens Holm noted, there is an option for the state to take over ownership and operation of the Arlanda runway. The Government presented its views on this issue in a letter to the Riksdag in 2012. In 2050, the agreement with A-A-Train AB will expire and the right to use the tracks will return to AIAB. The exclusive right to pick up and drop off passengers between Arlanda and Stockholm C will also cease. SJ as well as SL already operate train services to Arlanda Airport after agreement with A-A-Train.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-252	Madam President, I would like Just as noted here, the Arlanda Line is operated by A-A-Train, in daily terms Arlanda Express. It is a company currently owned by Australian pension funds and the Chinese State. Last summer, on 26 July, A-TrainA-Train private monopoly was extended until 2050. This was done after a decision by the state-owned company Arlandabanan Infrastructure. In this state-owned company there are four members of the board of directors, including one of the secretary of the Minister at the Ministry of Enterprise. The Minister was kept informed all the time – I have been informed that there were at least ten information sessions. It is also stated in the letter on Arlandabanan that the government has the possibility to extend the private monopoly after 2040. But you also have the opportunity to make a different decision if you think there are better alternatives. For me, it is incredibly strange that the government has allowed the private monopoly to be extended for another ten years. This private monopoly has caused us to have the highest prices in the world to travel to an airport. This means that the vast majority of the 20,000 employees at Arlanda, Sweden's largest workplace, do not travel there by train because it is simply too expensive. Only a quarter of the air passengers take Arlanda Express out. We can compare with Gardermoen in Norway or Kastrup in Denmark. There, more than twice as many trains take out to the airport compared to here in Sweden. Why? Because it's much cheaper to travel there than it is here. The construction of a private monopoly also makes integration in the region difficult because Arlanda Express is a completely separate runway, and when SJ and SL want to drop off passengers there you have to pay a very high fee. Each passenger then pays this fee – SEK 120 per time you get off on the platform out at Arlanda. It's an incredibly bad construction. Worst is it for the climate anyway because it allows people instead to take the car, ride taxis or bus etc instead of choosing the climate smartest way to travel, namely to go out to Arlanda by train. I would say that everyone is unisoned with this construction, which the government has allowed to extend. Even bourgeois politicians like the Moderates here in Region Stockholm want the private monopoly to end. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure why he and the Government allowed this to happen. Why did you have the private monopoly extended to 2050? And in what way does the Minister believe that this construction facilitates the achievement of our climate goals? Wouldn't it have been better if we had run this in our own direction and integrated Arlanda Express with the rest of the public transport? I thought it was the policy of the Social Democrats, but obviously it is not. I'm disappointed.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-262	Madam President, I would like I think Jens Holm is well aware of the attitude that the Social Democrats had towards the Arlanda Line when it was built. I think the experience we can draw is that OPS solutions create mechanisms that are not always optimal. It is important to say when we are faced with a time when we are going to make extensive infrastructure investments in Sweden. Privately funded solutions are often highlighted as an alternative. I don't know how many times I've made it clear that it's not a free lunch. It is not a way to cheapen or increase the infrastructure. It may be a way of getting a faster process, but it also means giving up influence. I think that discussion is so important to bring on a more principled level in the situation we are facing in Sweden in the coming decades. Now there are almost regular offers from groups and consortia both inside and outside Sweden to be involved in financing and solving the infrastructure challenge. I think you have to be careful about the steps you take to remove power and influence. I do not rule out that we have OPS solutions in Sweden. I have said that I am pragmatic about it if you can see benefits and benefits. However, we must be aware that the contracts signed are valid for a very long time because we are talking about large and expensive investments. So where and is the case with the Arlanda runway. It already concluded an agreement in 1994 which gave exclusive rights and a right for A-A-Train to request an extension of a maximum of 10 years in existing contracts, from 2040 to 2050. The possibility of changing it naturally determines the company. It is not the government that decides on this. On the other hand, there has been an increase in the integration of traffic. Both SJ and Stockholm Local Transport are now also driving on this route, so integration has actually worked better and better. There's an increase in traffic now compared to before. Basically, I can share the attitude of Jens Holm with regard to the state responsibility for infrastructure. But I also note that for a long time now we have the order that Arlandabanan as a consortium is conducted according to the agreements that exist and that it is the company AIAB that is responsible for the decisions that are made regarding the future of Arlandabanan.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-269	Madam President, I would like I do not think the Minister's answer is entirely in order if you say so. The Minister suggests that he has no responsibility for the decision to extend the private monopoly until 2050. Then I think it is important to note that the government has every opportunity to influence it. The decision was indeed taken in the state-owned company Arlandabanan Infrastructure AB – if there is no doubt. But why has one of the four board members been based on the Ministry of Infrastructure, if it is not because they want to be able to influence the decisions taken in this company? And why has the company Arlandabanan Infrastructure, at least according to the information I have received, had at least ten information sessions with the government on this particular case if it is not that one wants to obtain the government's positions on the matter? It is also stated in the letter on Arlandabanan that there is an option to extend until 2050, but the government can also, if it believes there is a better solution, choose not to extend. Thus, the government had every opportunity this summer to choose not to extend the private monopoly. This is also exactly what the state's investigator on the future of Arlanda, Anders Sundström, states in his report. On p. 147 he writes that after 2040, when the A-train contract expires, we need a better solution with lower prices, better integrated public transport, and so on. Madam President, I really do not understand why the government has allowed this to happen, so I ask Tomas Eneroth again: why did you have the contract extended by ten years? Then I have one more question. The Minister says that SJ and SL already operate train services to Arlanda Airport, and that is true. It sounds like the Minister is happy with it, when we all know that you are doing it for a very high payment. Every passenger who gets off on the platform out at Arlanda will have to pay 120 SEK. I have to ask whether the Minister is satisfied with the solution and if not what measures he intends to take so that we can better integrate public transport out to Arlanda.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-274	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm! I share Jens Holm's view that it is important that we have good public transport opportunities to Arlanda. They need to be further developed. And I am pleased that SJ and Stockholm Local Transport now operate traffic there to an increased extent. It's important. It is generally important to increase opportunities to get to airports in a way that reduces the carbon footprint. This is particularly relevant in the discussion about Bromma, where there are no track alternatives, but instead buses and other traffic. When it comes to the agreement, the government has not taken a decision. It's the company that made the decision. There is a right for A-A-Train to request an extension for a maximum of 10 years of the existing agreement. If the state wants to use the option to cancel the contract, it is about how integration has been affected with other public transport. Then we can note that SJ and SL now operate traffic on the route, also to an increased extent. It would then be difficult to argue that the agreement is not being fulfilled. This means that the company has landed in the assessment that an extension is the most appropriate. I can only say that this is the decision taken by the company.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-276	Madam President, I would like A one-way trip to Arlanda costs SEK 299. Buying a monthly card to travel with Arlanda Express costs SEK 1 100. There is no cleaner, no one who works in check-in or any other staff out at Arlanda– who does not receive a price reduction via Swedavia– who can afford to travel to Arlanda under these conditions. This is also why the vast majority of the nearly 20 000 people working at Arlanda do not take the train there. The vast majority of passengers to Arlanda do not take the train there. If you travel collectively with SJ, with SL or from Uppsala you have to pay a penalty to get off at Arlanda. This is not an optimal solution. The state-owned company Arlandabanan Infrastructure chose to extend this concession until 2050 – a very unfortunate decision. However, the Minister and the Government had every opportunity not to make this extension. There were ten briefings with the government on this issue. Why does the whole state-owned company have these information opportunities if it is not because it wants to agree with the government's position? It is very unfortunate that the government has allowed this to happen. Now we're sitting here with the problem. I would like the government to take advantage of the option that exists to take over this business in its own right.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-279	Madam President, I would like I would just like to point out that Jens Holm makes a number of statements that I cannot say are correct, whether it is about officials and in which department they belong or how many meetings we have had. If we leave this point, I can say that for commuters' period cards SJ, SL and UL pay a station fee of just under SEK 7 on 40 commuting trips. So there is the possibility of a discount. And that's how you have to continue to develop your journey out to Arlanda. I think that both I and Jens Holm would like to see further development of the traffic, because it is needed. We need more climate-smart transport to Arlanda. But again: the agreement is decided by the company. It is also the company that has taken a position on the extension by ten years.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-282	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me what conclusions I and the government draw from reporting on Karolinska Institutet's admissions to dental education. Roger Haddad has also asked me what initiatives I and the government have taken in the light of the attention paid to this. Roger Haddad has also asked me whether I and the Government intend to initiate a review of the arrangements for admission to Karolinska Institutet and consider whether the regulation governing the quota of alternative admissions should be reviewed. I expect all universities and colleges to comply with the laws and regulations that exist for their activities. It is important that the admission procedure is transparent and takes place in a legally secure manner. It is up to Karolinska Institutet(CI) to show how to handle their admissions in order to respond to this. I cannot comment on how selection has been carried out in individual cases, but I can be clear that it is merit that should form the basis for the selection. Here the individual higher education institution has a very important responsibility for that. How the selection to the university is designed plays a role for different groups' opportunities to be admitted to the university. At least for this reason, it is important to identify the different types of merit on which the selection is based. The purpose of locally decided selection criteria may be to meet the needs of the specific training to be able to recruit people with a particular type of qualification or to be able to broaden recruitment by allowing different types of qualifications to form the basis of the selection. Such qualifications could, for example, be those acquired in working life, which benefits lifelong learning. However, it is always important that merit is the basis for selection. According to the Higher Education Ordinance, a maximum of one third of the seats are to be allocated on the basis of the so-called locally decided selection criteria. If there are special reasons, the Swedish Council for Higher Education may allow a higher education institution to make a different allocation of places when selecting a particular education. The University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ, is the authority appointed by the Government to supervise universities and colleges. The Agency's website shows that UKÄ has contacted KI regarding its review of the local selection process to the dental programme. The government is, of course, following the outcome of the case. For me and the government, it is important to follow how the local selection is used and that it is done in a legally secure and transparent way. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish Council for Higher Education, together with the Office of the University Chancellor, to map and analyse how universities use the locally decided selection for admission to higher education.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-289	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Liberals reacted strongly to the report that Karolinska Institutet has its own committee that makes a selection for KI's attractive dental training. There are about a hundred students who are present per year, and there are some places that conduct dental education. This means that it is an exclusive education and that the demand for these places is particularly great for those who dream of getting into this education. For the Liberals, of course, the most important pre-knowledge and eligibility is whether you have it through grades, university exams or, as the Government was also involved in the answer, other qualifying qualifications. Of course, it is not the case that just because you are applying for an education, you are guaranteed a place. Admission must take place in competition but in a legally secure form. Having seen the section on the committee at Karolinska Institutet, I note that it is not legally secure. It should not be the case that some students are given priority only because of contacts, networks or relationships with those on the committee. Madam President, I would like Unlike the picture the government gives in its answer to my questions, I asked my interpellation to the Government in response to the government's statement in TV4, among other things, that it was not intended to announce any direct political initiatives. According to the answer, in general, a maximum of one third of the training places are to be allocated on the basis of locally decided selection criteria. Otherwise, one-third is accepted on the basis of a university test and one-third on the basis of grades. However, Karolinska Institutet has been granted an exemption after a specific decision and may allocate half of the seats based on local selection criteria. After the noted case, how does the Government see that Karolinska Institutet still has this decision that half of the seats can be distributed in this way? Here it is about Karolinska Institutet, but I believe that if we go in and review all other universities that have this type of education, I am convinced that we would find similar shortcomings in the admission system. This undermines the rule of law and trust in our universities. The fact that Karolinska Institutet, which is publicly funded, did not want to answer the media's questions in this review is serious. It also undermines confidence in the free academy and higher education in Sweden.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-297	Madam President, I would like The report in Cold Facts really made clear the need to follow up how universities handle the local selection criteria. I can assure Roger Haddad that I, as the responsible Minister of State, took this information very seriously. We should also remind ourselves that the locally decided selection criteria have not been followed up in the last ten years. The Parliament decided a few years ago to continue using the locally decided selection criteria and to strengthen that part of the selection process. I and the government are convinced that the locally decided selection criteria play an important role, not least in broadening recruitment and in a situation where we need to exploit skills that people have acquired in the workplace as a merit for them to have access to higher education. For these three reasons – that it was ten years since a follow-up was made, that the Riksdag has taken this decision and that the review in Cold Facts made clear the need for a follow-up of how higher education institutions handle the locally decided selection criteria – I started a work at once. The effects of this work made it possible for the government yesterday to take the decision to give the assignment to the Swedish Council for Higher Education, together with the Office of the University Chancellor, to map and analyse how higher education institutions use the locally decided selection criteria, of course in order to strengthen this and to make us feel confident that the basics are used in a legally secure and transparent way. Let me be clear that legal certainty and transparency are important. The laws and regulations that apply must be observed regardless of the university. I can't comment on individual universities or individual cases, but I've been clear that I expect KI to live up to the laws and regulations that apply and that you also have to answer for how you have used your local selection for admission. We can ensure that there is a survey and analysis of how all universities work with local selection criteria, that it is legally secure and transparent and that they are used in a positive and offensive way to try to broaden recruitment and give more opportunities to enter higher education, of course on the basis of the qualifications required to access the education. This interpellation debate shows that the government and the Liberals have a common commitment. We want to feel confident that this works well, and we want to strengthen and continue to develop the local selection criteria.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-305	Madam President, I would like This is a rejection of the government's policy on broader recruitment. I will continue to read about how you are moving forward on the issue of broader recruitment, and there are still other missions to broaden recruitment further. However, there are great risks in how these regulations are used, and Karolinska Institutet's management of dental education is only one example of the need for a limit. I do not believe anything about the government's talk that it has been ten years and that it is time to look at this, but this is a direct consequence of my having put this interpellation. A month ago, the government pushed the question away in Cold Facts and in the News on TV4 and referred to Karolinska Institutet. There were no political initiatives to be taken. Another interesting texture in the answer is the reference to the University Chancellor's Office's website, to show the ability to act. The Swedish Higher Education Council received a mandate already in July 2018 regarding this issue. Is that what the Government means? What happened to that decision? It was the Social Democrats who made the decision a year ago to review the rules. Madam President, I would like I want to know: What happened after July 2018 when UHR received a designated assignment regarding local admission rules? What I find on the website is that you show good examples and how to work with extended recruitment. I am sorry to note, Madam President, and here I would like to criticise the government: I expect answers to an interpellation from the Liberals not to be given in the TV4 news. It is to be given in this House according to the procedures we have. It is not acceptable, because I have put an interpellation and pressed the government for action, to give the answer to my interpellation the day before in the television box.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-310	Madam President, I would like It may come as a surprise to Roger Haddad and the Liberals, but the planet does not revolve around the Liberals. In fact, there are other considerations and initiatives in relation to Swedish politics, among other things, that are taken without the Liberals having pushed it forward in the form of an interpellation debate. I got the interpellation. I chose to answer it as quickly as I could. The reason I could give such a quick answer was that I knew that I had already started a job and had a decision to be made by the government yesterday regarding the locally decided selection criteria. It is an active and offensive decision that is about UHR and UKÄ now being given a responsibility to map and analyse all universities' work with local selection criteria so that they are designed in a transparent and legally secure way, in order to strengthen local selection so that we can use it to broaden recruitment. It is not a mission that you pick up a little quickly in a week or so from outside when the Liberals put an interpellation, but it is a work that has, of course, been initiated and prepared much earlier than that. However, I was very pleased when I received the interpellation from Roger Haddad and the Liberals, because I felt that it is absolutely excellent that more people than I and the government think it is important that we continue to develop the locally decided selection criteria and that we follow the decision taken by Parliament a few years ago in this House, which states that they should be developed and strengthened. This was also the reason why the UHR was given the assignment. As I said, we can now see that TV4's review put its finger on and made it clear that we probably need to do a broader follow-up. We know that it has been ten years since we carried out such a broad follow-up of the locally decided selection criteria and how all universities use these, based on transparency and legal certainty. Then I started such work, and that was what the government was able to decide yesterday. I'm very proud that we could work it out so quickly. As I said, I am pleased that the Liberals submitted the interpellation so that I can feel that there is continued support in this House for what Parliament has decided, namely that it should be possible to use three selection criteria: one third of university exams, one third of grades and one third of local selections. That is what the House decided. Then, in a special order and through the application to the UHR, if you justify it well, you can use a slightly larger part of the locally decided selection. However, these are government decisions, and Roger Haddad knows that I am prevented from speaking about them. I can only say in general that I expect all my and Sweden's authorities to comply with the laws and rules that they are set to follow. I really look forward to further work with the Liberals to strengthen this part, which is important for us to manage the skills supply in Sweden for the future. There are many professions where we need higher education and more people who have the right qualifications and qualifications to get into education and who are also able to get a degree.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-316	Madam President, I would like I have been involved in politics for a long time, and it is very rarely a political decision at government level happens to come a few days before a debate in this House. It's not the first time I've seen this. Anna Ekström has done so, and now Matilda Ernkrans is also on the list. It goes without saying that, by acting and pressing the government and by setting the interpellation, we have influenced the decision. A few weeks ago, in the news, Minister Matilda Ernkrans did not want to take any political initiatives but referred the criticism of admission to dental education to Karolinska Institutet. But we were not satisfied with this, because we do not think it is enough that an individual university should in principle examine itself. Then there were no designated assignments to the University Chancellor's Office, but it is later that it has been posted on the website that Karolinska Institutet has been contacted. It is, of course, good that the government is acting, five to twelve, because we have put pressure on it politically on this issue. If you look at how many have come in through grades and university exams and how many have come in through the special dental examination in recent years at Karolinska Institutet, you can see that it is unreasonable: 32 of the students came in through university exams and grades while 126 came in through the other selection criteria, not least because they happened to be related to or related to those who sit on the committee. This is totally unacceptable. The rules need to be reviewed.
i-2d05c5375f9fa7f1-319	Madam President, I would like As I said, the planet does not revolve around the Liberals, although they and Roger Haddad seem to think so. There are others who are also actively committed to us being able to continue to improve and develop Sweden. I have also been involved in politics for a long time. I can assure Roger Haddad that initiatives have been taken to take a comprehensive look at and see the possibilities for who or who could follow up, map and analyse how the higher education institutions work with the local selection in a transparent and legally secure way, in order to strengthen the local selection so that we can work more with broader recruitment and ensure that more people have the opportunity to use qualifications that have been acquired, for example, through work to gain access to attractive education programmes, that this job works well at the higher education institutions that have local selection and that we get a solid basis for our analysis, if it is so that we need to make changes. This mission was launched as soon as I had the opportunity to do so, and it was delivered by a government decision yesterday. As I said, I am very pleased with the commitment shown by the Liberals on this issue. I hope and believe that we can continue to work together to make this really good for the future. It was cold facts that made clear the need to follow up the issue, which has not been followed up in ten years. The Riksdag decided that we should strengthen our work with locally decided selection criteria. I started the work as soon as the need was made clear by cold facts to see what we could do further. The government made decisions yesterday. We will have a thorough survey and analysis on 1 March 2021, and then we can take it further if it is so that we need to change something to further strengthen the local selection, which is important for a wider recruitment.
