i-a5dc034673cf5d83-18	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me what measures I will take to strengthen Sweden's role internationally as an innovation-intensive economy. David Josefsson asks the question because Sweden, in Bloomberg Innovation Index 2019, has fallen from place two to place seven. However, it is difficult to draw any conclusions from a single change in an individual indicator. There are other studies that show that Sweden stands very well as an innovation country. This is not to say that Sweden can settle down and rely on historical merit. We must constantly develop and improve for our competitiveness. The government will therefore continue to give priority to innovation issues. They will be important to meet our major societal challenges, both in the short and long term, not least the need for a green transition and the impact of digitalisation on companies, on jobs and in people's everyday lives. Last term of office, the Government established the National Innovation Council and cooperation programmes for close cooperation with industry and other important actors, so that Sweden develops in the desired direction. One area that is highlighted both by the Innovation Council and within the framework of the collaboration programmes is competence provision. In order for Sweden to maintain and strengthen its competitiveness, it is important that we see the issue of skills supply as one of the most important keys to Swedish innovation and competitiveness. At the moment, negotiations are also under way on the forthcoming EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation. The Swedish Government is a driving force for the Framework Programme to strengthen both Sweden's and the EU's position as research and innovation-intensive economies. Also in the context of other ongoing negotiations on EU funds, the government is pushing to strengthen innovation issues. We have innovation and research councils in the United States, Brazil, India, Japan and China and also bilateral innovation partners with France, Germany and India, initiated by the Prime Minister, where we collaborate in several future areas such as automated vehicles, sustainable urban development and life science. Sweden must remain open to trade and foreign investment. I believe that our success as an innovation leader lies in the fact that Sweden is a knowledge nation and that we are present in global markets. The globally competitive industry has an innovation force that is necessary for Sweden to be able to meet the many societal challenges. I also believe that success comes from our ability to work together. Today's challenges are complex and cross-sectoral. That is why we need to develop Sweden as a leading knowledge nation and take advantage of people's creativity. The effects of investing in people can be difficult to capture in different rankings, but I believe that they are the basis for Sweden as a successful innovation country.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-26	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The survey that the interpellation relates to is, as I said, the 2019 Bloomberg Innovation Index that came in January in connection with the World Economic Forum in Davos. This index ranks countries in promoting innovation in their economies. Just as the Minister is concerned, one should definitely take individual results with a pinch of salt. At the same time, Sweden has performed well in these rankings before. Last time, we were in place two, and this year we fell to place seven. Place seven is still a good placement. But if we want Sweden to be a knowledge-based economy and our competitive advantages to be in precisely high technical know-how and a high rate of innovation, it is still a worrying development. I believe, like the Government, that there is no political disagreement that we should be an innovation-proof and leading knowledge nation. I have read both the Government Declaration and the January Agreement, and both mention innovations as policy areas. The fact that you are in favour of innovation is a good thing. Unfortunately, however, neither the Government's response nor the Government Declaration nor the January Agreement specifically show how this policy is to be implemented. These are sweeping formulations, albeit good ones. These are collaborative programmes, innovation councils and export initiatives. This ranking has been divided into a number of criteria. The three criteria where Sweden is the worst or has the best potential for improvement, if you want to be positive, are added value through manufacturing, efficiency in higher education and patent activity. Madam President, I would like I therefore wonder whether the Government wants to do something concrete about these three weak areas in order to strengthen Sweden's role as an innovation country.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-32	Madam President, I would like I thank David Josefsson for the interpellation. This discussion is important. I do not think there is any dividing line between the government and the Moderates on the basis of this. However, there are views in this Parliament of the kind that Sweden should not be an open country but that much of our future is connected with protectionism, walls or excluding people. But for a country that wants to be on the front line, that wants to be competitive and that is also totally dependent on its foreign trade, it is of course that we continue to be open outwards and interact with other countries, but that in our own country we also find ways to interlock between the public – it can be research at universities and colleges, as well as authorities – and the private – it can be both small and medium-sized companies. Unlike the previous bourgeois government, we in the present government believe that Sweden's future lies in cooperating and cooperating with each other and not pointing each other out as different special interests. We know we have different roles. But if Sweden is to remain competitive, we need to continue working together. It is also my ambition as Minister of Economic Affairs to join forces with our business community, with trade unions and with environmental organisations. It is true, as David Josefsson says: We have gone from place two to seven in this measurement. This is mainly because of the patents. You should then know that this is one of many measurements that are made. In this measurement we have for the last five years been in place seven, place three and place two. Now we are back in position seven, and that is because of that factor. One should take such things seriously; we should not sit down and say that we are good enough and now can relax. But I want to complicate the reasoning, because you can look at other studies that have come at about the same time. For example, in the European Innovation Scoreboard, which is perhaps the most extensive that the European Union does and where 28 EU countries are compared with regard to innovation power, Sweden is placing itself as country number one. In the Global Innovation Index, which is made by Cornell University and where 126 different countries are compared, Sweden places itself as number three. On the list Best Countries for Business, which Forbes quite recently came with and where 161 countries are compared to each other, Sweden stands out as country number two where it is best to do business and in terms of business climate. Sweden thus stands out. We have a very strong innovation force because we are working together. But as I said, it does not mean that we should settle down, on the contrary, and I will answer David Josefsson's question what else to do. It's about continuing to strengthen our research. We will come up with a research policy bill where important challenges will be addressed and investments will be made to achieve the goal of being one of the world's leading research and innovation countries. We have just set up a committee on technological innovation and ethics, which will also look at this cross-sectoral approach. At a time when we have such rapid technological changes, how can we get this together and strengthen our competitiveness? We have appointed a number of innovation and research councils around the world. I think it is always dangerous to think that you are the best at everything and stop listening to others; it is important to take part of this too. We invest in Smart Industry, Smart City Sweden, life science offices and more, to continue to be strong in the future as well.
i-3p3AyCX5XBbPm5dRkoqEBJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Ibrahim Baylan! To begin with, it is fascinating to hear that it is the fault of the previous bourgeois government that we have lost in innovation ranking. As Ibrahim Baylan says, it is important to go to arm hook with industry. I myself come from Gothenburg, which is a proud industrial city where the business community has gone from heavy manufacturing to today still being the manufacturing industry but now also knowledge-intensive development. Ibrahim Baylan talks about the companies, and there are many of them in Gothenburg, Madam President. These include AB Volvo, Volvo Cars, SKF and Astra Zeneca. At Lindholmen, where it used to be a shipyard, more people work today than during the time of the shipyards – but now with innovations and development. I don't think there's much disagreement about free trade and openness – I remember when I was a young MUF and stood up for free trade – but when you talk to these companies about innovation policy, it's now more about the conditions to find skilled professionals in the manufacturing industry, to reduce the regulatory burden of placing production in Sweden and housing policy. It is about the level of higher education and working conditions for labour migration and tax systems that are favourable. I hear from the Government that you are on these lines, but you are still not very concrete in what you want to do. It is also about the quality of university research, about knowledge about commercialisation and intellectual property. We have great research in Sweden, but we could be much better at converting it into patents. I think we agree on the problem picture, Madam President, but I am still thinking. What should be done in concrete terms? If we read the Government Declaration and the January Agreement, we see fine and sweeping wordings, but what do we want to do in concrete terms? You can't just blame the former bourgeois government. I therefore wonder, Madam President: can the Government develop how concretely it comes from the very fine words and into concrete policy?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-46	Madam President, I would like No, David Josefsson, no one has blamed the previous government. On the other hand, it is quite clear that there is a different direction from the previous government in terms of industry, for example. It is not very long ago that the then Prime Minister of the World Economic Forum in Davos, I think, said: The industry is basically go. It's not our vision. We believe that the industry not only exists but – properly managed and with good collaboration and collaboration on the research side, the development side and the innovation side – has a fairly bright future, I think. This is particularly true with the fact that we now see that there are good conditions for new industrialisation in our country. These are technological shifts and major challenges in terms of sustainable change. I am very proud that the Swedish industry today sees this as an important part of its business model. It has been estimated that it will not be possible – or not desirable – to continue to produce in a way that destroys the environment or, for that matter, the climate. There is also a difference in how we view cooperation. There was previously an idea that one has different interests and therefore should not meet too often. Our position is the opposite, that is to say that we should meet as often as possible. That is why we have set up the Innovation Council, and that is why we have the cooperation programmes. What are you supposed to cooperate with? Yes, there are a number of questions. The supply of skills, which David Josefsson mentioned and which I myself mentioned, is perhaps the most important and urgent thing today. The housing issue is important. Although we are of course very proud that we have had a record-high level of housing construction over the last five years – and that it continues at a historically high level, albeit waning – it is not enough. As David Josefsson says, many companies, not least of the growing ones, testify that it is difficult to recruit people to the big cities because there is no housing. It is also about continuing to develop our research together. It is clear that we have somewhat different roles there, Madam President, but Sweden would not be the leader in investing in research if we did not make both public and private investments. Swedish business, not least the companies David Josefsson mentioned, such as AB Volvo, Astra Zeneca, Ericsson and others. We also have an exuberant start-up sector in Sweden. We all know many of those who have grown into large, global companies, such as Spotify, King, Klarna, Skype and Mojang. There is an enormous potential in continuing to work on this, and we will do so together. What else are we gonna do? Yes, it is about everything from continuing to push the National Innovation Council to making efforts in the area of intellectual property, which is a major area not least for these growing companies. It is also about having set up a start-up manager to increase the efficiency of the internationally successful and innovative companies that already exist in our country and can grow. As David Josefsson says, it is sometimes also a matter of regulatory simplification. For I am not so sure that we always think about it, but sometimes we do things that we have always done rather than ask ourselves from the authorities: Is this wise? Does it give anything? Does it serve any purpose? Sometimes the answer is yes, and then it should be so. M a notable often is the answer no. Then you should change your way and simplify your business. We will come back with a research policy proposal, which is very central in this context. Madam President, I would like Sweden asserts itself strongly, but that is no reason to settle down. Instead, we will continue to push for Sweden to continue to have strong competitiveness by being an innovation nation.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-55	Madam President, I would like As I said, competition is sharp when new, innovation-tight companies think about where they best establish themselves, or for that matter when sharp and knowledgeable brains choose where in the world they will live and work – especially when you consider that two of our close neighbours, Germany and Finland, are ahead of us in this ranking. It is in our neighbourhood that we are competing, and the competition is sharp. As I said earlier, place seven is certainly a good location, but the development is worrying. I believe that I and the Government are in agreement there, Madam President. We are lagging behind in three very important areas: added value in manufacturing, higher education and the number of patents. I would like to thank Ibrahim Baylan for his reply, Madam President. As I said, I do not believe that there is political disagreement about the ambitions, but I had hoped and wished that the government would have been able to show more concrete points when it comes to strengthening innovation in Sweden.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-58	Madam President, I would like I thank David Josefsson for a good debate. After all, it is part of the opposition role to critically examine the work of the government, and that is how it should be. It is also part of the opposition role to sometimes point to the shortcomings, and so it should be – you must never settle down. But with regard to Sweden's innovation power, Madam President, there is a great deal we can be proud of, both what we do in public and what we do in collaboration with the private business community and the many small, medium-sized and large companies we have in our country that are creative and dynamic and that I believe really have the future ahead of us. This is one of the reasons why we top the vast majority of such international measurements. Let me just repeat: in 2018, when the European Union compared 28 countries within the European Union in terms of innovation power, Sweden came first. When the well-known magazine Forbes in 2019 compared 161 countries in terms of business climate, Sweden came second. When Cornell University – a large and renowned university – compared 126 countries, we came third. In this study we came seven because we had lost patents. Of course, that should be taken seriously. Even if you are never going to settle down, I think that together we must realise that there is reason to be proud of the work that is being done and that will also be carried on. For a small country with an open economy, competitiveness is A and O. Therefore, I can assure David Josefsson that as Minister of Economic Affairs and this government I will continue to work intensively with the business community to ensure that Sweden is not only in different rankings but also in reality a competitive and innovative country.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-63	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me how I see that every sixth municipality has not made a lex Sarah notification of children since IVO was founded in 2013, whether I intend to take any action in response to the shortcomings identified in SVT's mission review on 9 January and what measures I and the government will take to urgently strengthen social services and to ensure a high quality social service in all the municipalities of the country. I would first like to thank Johan Hultberg for the question. The fact that children and young people who are in community care receive the help and support they need is highly prioritised and has been so for a long time. The National Coordinator for Social Child and Youth Care presented its conclusions and proposals in autumn 2017. These proposals are now being taken care of in various ways, including through a broad and comprehensive assignment to the National Board of Health and Welfare, which is ongoing in 2018 and 2019. The focus of the assignment is competence and quality development as well as a strengthened perspective on children's rights. Johan Hultberg also asked more specifically about lex Sarah notifications. Lex Sarah is an important tool for the systematic quality work of social welfare boards and for their self-control. Lex Sarah is an obligation to report maladministration and material risks of maladministration. IVO has the task of following up and ensuring that deficiencies are addressed. The government is following the ongoing work and observations of the agency. In order to address the shortcomings identified in IVO's 2017 National Supervisory Report, municipalities need to develop their systematic quality work within social services. For this there is already legislation and regulations to comply with.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-68	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The task of social services is extensive, and the responsibility is heavy. Unfortunately, we see that social services around Sweden's 290 municipalities often fail and are not able to fully assume their responsibilities. There are serious problems. Suffering often becomes the socially vulnerable children, who do not receive the help and support they deserve and are entitled to. We Moderates believe that politics now really needs to take a strong stance on social services and, not least, to strengthen its staff. Among other things, we have proposed a national action plan to strengthen the country's social secretary and social services in general, combined with a comprehensive benefit reform to push back exclusion and increase social mobility. Strengthening social services is particularly important in order to provide the right measures and support for socially vulnerable children. Unfortunately, many times it is especially activities aimed at children and young people that are experiencing major problems. One of the major problems of Swedish social services – and one of its major challenges – is linked to the supply of skills and personnel. More than half of the social welfare managers say that it is generally difficult to recruit staff. It is most difficult to recruit social secretaries and aid administrators, especially for children's and young people's services. It is also difficult to recruit managers for the practice of public authority in the social care of children and young people. Of course, Madam President, a shortage of staff – particularly a lack of experienced staff – is affecting the quality of the activities of social services. Although the situation is of course very different between different municipalities in the country, the general and clear picture is that social services are very hard tested and that there are significant problems and shortcomings. These problems and shortcomings are largely structural but ultimately affect individuals, not infrequently defenceless children. At the same time, the social services in our municipalities are filled with talented, committed employees who are doing their utmost to do a good job. These employees deserve praise and appreciation but perhaps above all better opportunities to make a good worker. We Moderates highlight, among other things, the need to reduce the workload of social security secretaries by reviewing what tasks might be carried out by other categories of staff who do not have a long university education. Consideration should also be given to the possibility of digitising part of the aid management, for example, and to other measures to ease the workload. The Minister only mentioned in general terms what measures are now being taken and that the National Board of Health and Welfare has a broad mission to strengthen child and youth care with a focus on competence and quality development and to strengthen children's rights perspective. More specifically, however, I wonder what measures the Minister and the Government are taking and are planning to take to strengthen the staff of social services and give them a reasonable working situation.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-78	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Johan Hultberg, for the initiative to set this interpellation! I think these are issues that really deserve to be discussed, and it is not so often that we talk about those who have the greatest need for us to have a well-functioning welfare society and for security to actually be there when you need it. Let me first say, when it comes to the task of social services, that we need to work preventively in different ways to ensure that the workload is reduced so that people who really need the support and assistance and the efforts can be dealt with. It is also a question of ensuring that adults – parents, those who work for work and those who are dependent on family life – have their own jobs and livelihoods. That is many times what this is all about. When we talk about children and young people, it is often the case that it is their parents who are in a vulnerable situation and position that makes also the children, who are not given equal opportunities and opportunities, feel vulnerable. It is clear that society has a huge responsibility for children and young people who are in vulnerable situations. It becomes particularly clear if you are in the care of society, which, however, is an extreme – many of those we are talking about are not at all in the care of society but are in need of the support of society. But there is a whole scale, from those who need some support for those who are even in the care of society and who need a safe environment. In all these cases, a high level of skills is required to work and to ensure that people are given the necessary support. There are several different points to make. Since the government has taken office relatively recently, I may in part describe what was done last term of office. Then I will also try to give a picture of what we have in front of us. During the previous term of office, there was a national coordinator who worked not only by having an investigation with an end date but who was actually very present in the business and who both kept up with the situation on an ongoing basis and made proposals. The coordinator also came with final results prepared. Of course, the competence of the staff, I would say, is one of the most important things. This was also the reason for a staffing initiative and for resources, both in 2019 and 2020, to work with skills development in municipalities and for the social services to be able to recruit social secretaries, administrators and supervisors in the way that they felt within each municipality's social services was what they most needed. There is also a need for career introductions and commissioned education. But it is also very much about the work that IVO is doing. It is a starting point for the government's work to get the supervisory reports that IVO does to get a picture of the situation and what needs one sees as more of a pervasive nature. IVO has several different tools at its disposal, ranging from dialogue and recommendations, but they can also make demands for action and so on for the operation to function well. We are, of course, following the supervisory reports with a great deal of interest, and they are important for the government in decision-making, quite simply. We will continue to work with this type of financial support but also to ensure that municipalities work with competence development and supply. Social services are in this sense in the same position as many other sectors. You work and work so that you can recruit the staff that is available for your particular business.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-88	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister highlighted the importance and the need for prevention. It is, of course, extremely important to start at the right end. It is important to really try to meet families with the need for help and support with efforts early on to ensure that people do not slip onto a criminal path, end up in an abuse or otherwise end up wrong in life, which means that people later end up in a great need for help and support from society. I would like to say here, Madam President, that the work line is the basis for this and that we are taking a strong stance against the criminal gangs that take over in our areas of exclusion and make other efforts that are extremely important in this area. I also hope that the inquiry into the future of social services, which is currently under way and which has been extended by the government, will take precisely the preventive perspective very seriously. It is very important that we lower the thresholds to social services and reduce stigma. Many do not seek help on time, and that is a problem. However, I see many good examples around the country. I was in Åmål the other week and met parts of their social services that work very proactively. For example, they make home visits to all new parents in order to be able to see needs early and put in efforts. Many times a family support activity or an educational effort may suffice. However, there is one thing that disappoints me a little when it comes to the Minister's response. As I mention in my interpellation, very much of the review and follow-up of the activities of the social services is about lex Sarah notifications from the activities and about individual complaints. Given this, I think that the task in SVT's Mission review that a large proportion of Sweden's social services have not made any lex Sarah notifications about children is ominous. The Minister may make a different assessment, but I find, as I wrote in my interpellation, that it is unlikely that the social services of more than 50 municipalities since 2013, when IVO was formed, have had no serious maladministration or material risks of serious child abuse. I do not think it is enough, as the Minister does, simply to state that social services have a duty to report irregularities and obvious shortcomings and that legislation and regulations are already in place. Since the supervision and follow-up of social services are so much subject to notification and are based on the municipalities themselves reporting abuses and risks, it is clear that this is a problem if this does not happen. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the Minister if she does not think there is reason for the government to take any action and make some efforts to investigate why social services do not make more lex Sarah complaints about children. I think this is a question to which the government should seek answers. It should not least prompt the government to consider, for example, whether efforts could be made in cooperation with SKL to ensure that social services have a culture where risks, problems and shortcomings are not swept under the carpet, but instead lifted up and the most serious cases are reported as part of the systematic quality and development work.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-94	Madam President, I would like Not only do I note, but I have also, of course, given a lot of thought to the question Johan Hultberg is asking here about the conclusions to be drawn from non-reporting, so to speak. I can say this: there are no indications of underreporting, but that does not mean that we cannot be sure that there are no other shortcomings. It is certainly not with that tone that I read the statistics. But it says something about how important it is that there are many different tools for transparency, supervision and measures so that the activities work and not just lean towards notification cases. It won't be enough. That is why IVO has a comprehensive mission that is far from always about acting only on notifications received. They have a work which also deals with return conferences and learning. They should not only make a impact and then leave the municipality and the social services, but they should ensure that there is a learning process both within the municipality as a whole and in the activities, so that the shortcomings they discover are addressed and that one learns from them so that it does not happen again. Municipalities have an obligation to report irregularities. I certainly do not want it to be understood that it does not matter very much whether you report or not. It makes a big difference to report irregularities. This is an important way of dealing with systematic quality work. And it is clear that all municipalities should act in accordance with the legislation that we have. In addition to the obligation for municipalities and those in the activities that are to make notifications, IVO must continue its supervisory work. My picture is that IVO conducts a solid oversight work. If there are signs and signals of underreporting of serious maladministration, the Authority shall of course report on this. And if there is reason to take hold of something from a political point of view, there is nothing that we fear. It is important to say that the lex Sarah notifications are part of the work, but they are far from anything to build quality work on.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-98	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's it. Lex Sarah is certainly not all that underpins the quality and development work. But it is a very supporting part of the work. Therefore, I think that the report produced by SVT really calls for reflection and perhaps prompts IVO to analyse the issue further. I am very much looking forward to the report which will land on the Minister's table within just a few weeks, namely that of the Ombudsman for Children. It is an in-depth report on social child care. In-depth interviews have been conducted and so on. I have only heard about the work and, of course, not been able to see any of the content of the report. But I think it can be a good basis for further debates in this House on how we can develop and strengthen Swedish social services, because that is needed. Too many children do not receive the help and support they deserve. It is indeed the greatest failure of the welfare state if we fail the vulnerable children. What I think is extremely important for strengthening social services is making contributions for the staff. It is they who are the very backbone of the business and those who can seriously make a difference. Then it is about strengthening the attractiveness of the profession and getting more people to want to become a socionomist and to seek a future career in social services. But we see a major problem with staff turnover. Many new, young social secretaries have to deal with very difficult cases. I believe that a better introduction is needed, and the Swedish Work Environment Authority has identified serious shortcomings. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether the government would consider, for example, commissioning the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop a systematic programme for the introduction of new social secretaries.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-102	Madam President, I would like Let me conclude with what we started to talk about, namely the important preventive work. It is important to keep talking about it in order to emphasise that social services also have this important work to do. I believe that this is one of the reasons why people are seeking employment and activity. They train themselves as a sociologist and social secretary because they want to work preventively and see what measures play a role in ensuring that children and young people, in particular, end up in the right place in life. It is also about how we ensure that adult breadwinners are not in need of financial assistance but rather have a job to go to. It is also about how we work with ill health so that people do not end up in, for example, addiction, which is unusual and makes you need social services' efforts, but can work and feel good. Let me also say something briefly about Margareta Winberg's investigation, as Johan Hultberg mentioned. It will come in the spring of 2020, and I am very much looking forward to it. It is a review of social services, which is a comprehensive exercise. The interim report already focused on prevention, and I very much look forward to the final report because I think it is important that we work more proactively in society on a broad front so that social services can use their knowledge and skills in their important efforts. I think this gives a better working environment and a better working situation and that you feel that the profession becomes more attractive when you get to work with what you have actually trained to do. Of course, we will continue to follow both the reports of the Ombudsman for Children and IVO's supervisory reports. There is not a municipality that can waive its responsibility to comply with the laws and regulations decided by the Riksdag.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-107	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me if I and the government will heed the Swedish Board of Agriculture's appeal to introduce a provision in the E-Health Authority's instruction that the E-Health Agency is obliged to report data on the use of medicines on animals to the Swedish Agriculture Agency. Another question that Johan Hultberg has asked me is whether I intend to initiate a review of the relevant legislation in force in order to ensure transparent pharmaceutical statistics. A common denominator for both of these issues is that they relate to changes in the application by the E-Health Agency of legislation on statistical confidentiality, in the first case relating to animal medicinal products and in the second case to medicinal products for human use. I agree with Johan Hultberg that access to open and transparent pharmaceutical statistics is important from many different perspectives and for many different actors. In addition to greater public transparency in the use of public funds for medicinal products, access to this type of statistics is important in order to achieve patient-safe and cost-effective drug use and in the fight against antibiotic resistance in both humans and animals. As Johan Hultberg points out, the Swedish Board of Agriculture needs data from the Swedish Agency for Health in order to compile annual statistics on the sales of pharmaceuticals to animals. The letter from the Swedish Board of Agriculture referred to by Johan Hultberg shows that the relevant data could eventually be disclosed to the work. However, they became subject to statistical confidentiality and the data could therefore not be shared with the National Veterinary Institute, which collaborates with the Swedish Agriculture Agency in the processing and analysis of statistics. For the same reason, reporting data to the Esvac network within the European Medicines Agency (EMA) was hampered. Within the Government Office, work is under way to analyse these issues and what measures may be needed to take both in the short term and in a longer term perspective. With regard to the question of a possible review of the relevant legislation, the Ministry of Social Affairs identifies whether such a possibility exists. However, it is important that the impact assessment that is currently being carried out by e.g. the E-Health Agency is ready for the government to take a position on the next step. In conclusion, it is the Government's ambition that pharmaceutical statistics should continue to be managed in a way that gives the public insight into developments in the field of pharmaceuticals while taking into account the need for confidentiality in order to protect personal privacy.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-115	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. This is a typical issue that at first sight may seem peripheral and not so large and significant. But it is a very important issue from a strategic perspective in terms of Swedish health care. The use of medicines is an important part of the health care system and also something that the tax collective has to pay a great deal for because the total amount of the medicine benefit is about 40 billion. There is therefore a great interest in public scrutiny of how the funds are used. It is also important that both we decision-makers in this House and the government have access to good statistics in order to be able to carry out follow-ups, reviews and comparisons between different regions. In addition, it is important to be able to participate in various research programmes and to work actively to reduce the prescription of antibiotics in order to prevent antibiotic resistance. The Minister mentioned that, through my questions, I made links with animal medicines, but in reality it is just as much about human health because antibiotic resistance is one of the main threats to modern health care. Already today, the European disease control authority estimates that 25 000 people die within the Union every year because of antibiotic resistance. A serious problem is the overuse of antibiotics in animal husbandry in Europe. Here Sweden is a true pioneer country thanks to the fantastic work that Swedish farmers have done for generations to have a good infection protection, to work preventively and to never use antibiotics for preventive purposes but only to treat disease. In this work, statistical data have been important, but now patrols have been found on the possibility of obtaining these data and cooperating across government boundaries. The Swedish Board of Agriculture, the State Veterinary Institute and Lif, which is the research pharmaceutical company's trade association, have asked the government to act on this issue. The new interpretation and application of the law by the E-Health Agency, which is certainly correct and based on last year's ruling, has made these possibilities more difficult. I have great respect for what the Minister says in his reply that the Government wants to await the impact assessment that the E-Health Agency is doing. However, I hope that I can get a straight and clear answer that the government will take action in the short and long term to ensure that these data are made public so that the important work being done by our authorities to monitor the use of medicines and cooperate internationally to address, for example, antibiotic resistance and excessive antibiotic medicinal products are made possible.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-123	Madam President, I would like I can only agree that this poses problems for all parties involved, and if it is the Swedish Agriculture Agency, SVA, the county councils, the Medical Products Agency or the public who want transparency, less matter. These are statistics that have previously been available and transparent, and that is not something that we have in any way tried to make more difficult. Let me be clear that this is not a desirable development. Mr Westerholm, the Liberals, asked me a question a couple of weeks ago when this subject appeared, and I gave her the same answer. This is something that we want to act in the best way, but it is important to wait and obtain the EHealth Agency's impact assessment. I asked the officials when it came, and it came before the end of March. As I said, I think it is important that we wait for it. As regards the tools and means at our disposal and what we can use to facilitate this, I am happy to come back in this form. But let me say that no one has a different opinion, quite the opposite. This applies to everyone who works with medicines, with health care and with keeping our tax funds. This also applies to all those who are keen to follow the use of medicines. Antibiotic resistance is a typical example of something that makes it obvious to everyone who is not normally so involved in what, for example, statistical confidentiality can have consequences. You understand that you need to be able to follow, among other things, the use of antibiotics. But, as I said, there are many others who also suffer when these statistics cannot be released. I would like to emphasise once again that in the long term we must have a solution that will make this work. It may take time to find a long-term solution. We must also have an idea of how in the short term we can ensure that the work carried out by the relevant authorities is not made more difficult. In mid-December, the National Board of Health, E-Health and TLV were invited to a meeting at the Ministry of Social Affairs to provide information on this issue, as soon as we learned that it was under way and what could be the outcome. It is the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm that has conducted a judicial investigation that has led to these consequences. My answer, apart from what I have left the House here, is that we are doing our very best to deal with this issue in both the short and the long term. Before the end of March, the E-Health Agency's impact assessment will be completed, and I expect to get more on the ground when it comes to how we can act.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-132	Madam President, I would like It was good news that the E-Health Agency's impact assessment will be forthcoming. It is extremely important that the government is then ready to take action. The authorities are crystal clear in their request to the government that the situation we now find ourselves in is unmanageable. If, for example, we in Sweden are to be able to report the use of medicines or antibiotics in animal husbandry in the way we have done for many years to the European level, there must be changes. SVA or the Swedish Board of Agriculture, for example, must be given another instruction. I think it is important for the government, perhaps already now, to look in parallel at the various options that exist and which have been highlighted in the petition that has landed at the Minister's table. There is another request which is linked to this issue but which does not concern the urgent question of the changed application of the law. It is a joint request from the E-Health Agency, the Swedish Agriculture Agency, the Swedish Medical Products Agency and SVA that concerns the antibiotic medicinal product in animal husbandry. In the case of antibiotic use in medicinal products for human use, each doctor has a prescription code and prescriptions can be followed at individual level. It is an important tool to be able to follow up if someone seriously deviates in prescription patterns, if it is a special care provider that deviates and so on. This does not apply to animal medicines and antibiotic use in agriculture. Therefore, the authorities have jointly requested the Government to analyse what is necessary to ensure access to prescription-based statistics on antibiotics to animals. I wonder: Has the Minister taken a position on the request? Is the Minister prepared to take the necessary measures to enable such statistics? This would be an important measure and an important step in tackling antibiotic resistance and seeking to further reduce the prescription of antibiotics. The authorities have done this as part of living up to the mission they have been given by the government on the basis of the strategy it has developed to combat antibiotic resistance.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-138	Madam President, I would like I will conclude with the question. Or maybe I should start with it instead. Since Johan Hultberg asked a different question than the one that was in the interpellation, I am not prepared in such a way that I know if there is work going on before. In fact, I do not know about this, but I have not been reached by any request so far. Let us return to that question. With regard to the positions that both the National Board of Health and the E-Health Authority, in this case, have reached, namely that the provision of statistics would be contrary to the principle of public access and confidentiality, I would like to emphasise and stress once again that we in the government are very keen to resolve this issue in the long term. If we can then deal with it in the short term too, it is of course positive, but we will probably see it as two different parts. The government cannot influence the positions taken by independent administrative authorities or how they apply existing legislation, but in the long term ensuring that we get a different order is absolutely a promise. How we work in the short term, I can simply come back to when we can explain how it looks, but it is clear that we are looking at different options for action and what would be possible on the basis of the conditions we have. I would like to take this opportunity to add to what Johan Hultberg described when it comes to how important it is to work with antibiotic resistance. It is clear that it is with pride that you represent Sweden in different contexts where there is talk of antibiotic resistance. A long and diligent work has been done by Swedish farmers but also by Swedish society, where we agree that we should not prescribe antibiotics unnecessarily. This is about farmers and their animals, but also about the approach in the whole of health care. I think that not least many families with children can recognize that it would be good to have some antibiotics or penicillin against that ear inflammation. We have been gradually taught there, and I think that most people sympathise with this. One should not prescribe unnecessarily, because, of course, on the day we need antibiotics, we do not want resistance to it to have developed. I would like to stress how important it is for this work to be carried out at home, so that we can continue to be examples, show other countries that this is possible and work on as we do. In the international collaboration – the Alliance of Champions, as it is called when you join together – more and more countries have joined. I know that larger meetings are planned where people try to bring country after country. This is an initiative that Sweden and Holland took a number of years ago and which is extremely urgent. We should not make things difficult for ourselves by not being able to look at statistics, for example. There are many reasons why we should ensure that, in the short and long term, conditions are in place to be able to follow the statistics, but today I cannot describe exactly how this is to be done. I'd like to get back to you on that.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-145	Madam President, I would like The Minister is quite right that there are many reasons why this is important. I would like to stay for a few seconds on the issue of the use of medicines and antibiotics in agriculture. It is a question both of tackling antibiotic resistance and of safeguarding the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. The extremely low antibiotic use we have in Swedish agriculture is by far the lowest in the EU, and it is a Swedish added value. This is something that Swedish farmers deserve praise and appreciation for and hopefully can also get a few extra crowns for when they sell their meat. This is important from this perspective and as part of the implementation of the food strategy that we have broadly supported in this House. I am pleased that the Minister was somewhat clearer and went from talking about ambitions to talking about promises. It is good that the Minister promises that the government will ensure that the statistics will continue to be available. I fully agree with the Minister's description that this will require action in the short and long term. In the short term, a number of different solutions have been presented by the relevant authorities, and it will certainly be one of those that the government will then choose. I respect the fact that this work is being postponed until the E-Health Agency has presented its impact assessment. As the Minister mentioned, it is reasonable to look at the legislation in order to find a more long-term solution and model for how statistical data can be handled in line with confidentiality legislation and rather balanced against the interest in protecting privacy. Thank you for your answer and the debate.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-148	Madam President, I would like I just want to make sure that I was properly understood when I said that we promise that we will do everything we can in the short and long term. I cannot see all the possibilities that we have, but it is clear that this is a problem. This is the message. In the long term, as Johan Hultberg said, it will be about the need for legislation to be changed. As you know, this takes time, and we therefore need to act in a different way while waiting for it. I cannot tell you how it is going to work today, but we need to look at all the possibilities we have in order not to make it more difficult for everyone who works with medicines and who needs access to statistics. This is an extremely important condition for ensuring that we use medicines properly, but also, by extension, that we use our tax funds properly. Not least this is the reason why county councils and others want statistics out. Antibiotic resistance is a very obvious use, but certainly not the only one. I would like to emphasise that I promise that we will do everything we can. I very much hope that there are tools for us to use in the short term. In the long term, we are talking about legislation, as I see it.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-151	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me what measures I and the government have taken and will take to ensure that Brexit does not jeopardise the supply of Swedish medicines or the production of medicines in Sweden. In addition, Johan Hultberg has asked me if I am prepared to initiate a strategy for the supply of medicines in the event of a crisis and war. Let me begin by regretting Britain's planned withdrawal from the European Union. The UK is a close and important partner to Sweden, and with their withdrawal we lose a close ally. There is currently intensive work at EU level to find solutions to the problems in the field of pharmaceuticals that may result from a non-contractual Brexit. The aim of this work is that important medicines from the UK should also be able to reach patients in the rest of the EU without any shortage situations. If, despite these preparations, there is a risk of lack of a particular medicinal product, companies must report it to the responsible authority, in Sweden the Swedish Medical Products Agency. The MPA will then of course do its utmost to seek to protect our patients by using the tools they have. As regards the supply of medicinal products in crisis and war, Apoteket AB previously had a collective responsibility for the supply of medicinal products both from a crisis perspective and from a total defence perspective. However, this changed in connection with the pharmacy's regulation. The government has taken several efforts in particular to strengthen preparedness for outbreaks of infectious diseases. For example, the Swedish Public Health Agency has been tasked with emergency storage of antiviral drugs. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has also taken the initiative to analyse the county councils' supply systems for pharmaceuticals. However, there is a need for a comprehensive approach to the responsibility of all actors in the pharmaceutical supply chain. Therefore, during the last term of office, the government appointed an investigation, the Investigation for Health Care Preparedness. The mission is, among other things, to review the current arrangements to ensure that there is access to medicines and other health supplies in the event of serious events in peacetime and during increased preparedness. The investigation shall report on its mission by 31 December 2020.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-158	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is to be welcomed that in recent years we have had a renewed and intensified debate on the vulnerability of society and on civil preparedness, which is often lacking. The area we are now debating is one of the most central and important in terms of being well prepared for various forms of crisis in society. The supply of medicinal products is currently extremely vulnerable. That is why I am calling for a strategy for the supply of medicines in the event of crisis and war. Now, unfortunately, we're approaching a Brexit. Of course, I share the view that it is very regrettable that Britain is about to leave the European Union. I still have a little bit of hope that Britain will eventually remain in the Union, following this very lengthy and, to say the least, eventful process. I am convinced that this would be the best thing for Britain, Sweden and the whole of Europe. The United Kingdom is a very important country from a pharmaceutical point of view. The UK is involved in the production of one in five medicines in the EU. The reports that have been made to date to the Medical Products Agency and its counterparts in the rest of Europe indicate that perhaps some thirty medicines will be lacking if the UK leaves the EU without a withdrawal agreement, which is the situation we are now approaching, Madam President. Today it is 24 days and quite exactly 10 hours until the UK leaves the EU. As things stand at present, the EU will not be left in an orderly manner with an exit agreement, but will crash out. Then there is an obvious and great risk that we will end up with a serious shortage of these perhaps thirty medicines. I was a little concerned, Madam President, when I surfed the website of the Medical Products Agency before this debate. I found very little information on how to deal with the issue of Brexit, and it is written that the British withdrawal is supposed to be followed by a transitional period until 31 December 2020. Then I get the impression that the responsible authority in Sweden is planning for sunshine, that it is assumed that there will be a withdrawal agreement. But what we are now approaching is that Britain is crashing out of Europe. I would like to ask the Minister if she, who may be in closer contact with the responsible authority, has received satisfactory reports from the Swedish Medical Products Agency in Sweden and if she feels safe with and feels that the Swedish people can feel confident that there will be no serious problems with our drug supply as a consequence of Brexit.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-163	Madam President, I would like One cannot overemphasize – I have already mentioned it in my reply, and Johan Hultberg refers to it again – that it is extremely worrying that Britain is leaving the EU and that it is not doing so in an orderly manner, as it now stands. It seems to be a hard Brexit, and of course there will be problems. We're gonna feel it. It is quite clear that we are not only vulnerable but also highly interdependent. We depend on all the cooperation that we have built up with Britain for decades. It's very clear. This is not up to Sweden to solve. It is not the case that each individual country relates freely to Britain's withdrawal, but that the Union negotiates jointly. This is probably why Johan Hultberg has been able to access the information mentioned on the Swedish Medical Products Agency's website, where the official information that can be provided is always provided. In the case of Brexit and medicines, the problem has mainly concerned the quality control of medicines that must be carried out in the UK if they are to be exported to other EU countries. That question has been resolved. On 25 February, the European Commission announced that the regulatory framework should be interpreted in such a way that national authorities may, during a transitional period, exempt themselves from the requirement that quality testing be carried out within the Union. This means, in practice, that medicines imported from the UK and quality tested there do not have to undergo a new test if there is a hard Brexit. Companies interested in this possibility should apply to the Swedish Medical Products Agency, which then examines the matter. During this week, the authorities will provide more information on this – if this happens at the time of the debate, I cannot answer. It is clear that authorities, like everyone else, want to find the best possible solution. There are many of us who would rather not believe that it is really going to be a hard Brexit, but that date is approaching. The MPA estimates that the risk of a shortage of certain medicines in Sweden and the EU will be significantly reduced thanks to the Commission's position. This is not a solution forever, but, of course, it is necessary to deal with the situation in the longer term. This is the information to be given. The MPA also looks at other possible ways to reduce the negative impact. Once again, it will be felt if the UK leaves the EU without an agreement. But Swedish authorities, including the Swedish Medical Products Agency, are of course doing their utmost to make it the least possible sense for patients, users and health care institutions who need medicines in this case. I would also like to remind you that the companies that have medicinal products on the Swedish market have an obligation to contact the Swedish Medical Products Agency no later than two months before the end of the sale of a medicinal product. The MPA can then decide on what other alternatives are available that can be used in healthcare. The urgent question, which I think Johan Hultberg was after, has so far been resolved. Then, of course, we need to ensure that this is resolved in the longer term.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-171	Madam President, I would like It was a welcome message from the European Commission that the Minister conveyed here – a news that I had actually missed. It is very positive that the Commission has come to the very reasonable conclusion, to say the least, that exemptions must be granted at this stage. Of course, it is not the case that all the medicines produced and perhaps even developed in Britain become dangerous overnight. Of course, it must be possible to deal with this pragmatically during a transitional period. It is also the basis for why it is so important that negotiations continue between the UK and the EU to bring about a withdrawal agreement. Basically, it is a question of the friends of the British Isles having to come together about what they want. The EU of 28 countries has managed to agree to be able to support the draft withdrawal agreement that has been negotiated for a long time. The UK bears a very large part of the responsibility to ensure that there is an orderly exit. Enough about that. The longer-term issue of the supply of medicines should also be highlighted in the discussion. I want to see a strategy for the supply of medicines in crisis and war. I look forward to seeing the investigation that is now under way. I understand that the Minister will not give a statement on how the Government intends these issues to be addressed further before that investigation has arrived. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister how she views the fact that the number of residue quotations of medicinal products has quadrupled since 2015. At that time, there were 148 reports of 215 medicines. Now in the past, there were 680 leftovers. It is troubling when there is a lack of quite important medicine. For example, the medicine for thyroid disorders has been exhausted. Speaking of families with children, it has been a matter of worms and other things that many think it is quite urgent to get hold of. How does the Minister view those residual notes? Is there anything that the Minister and Government could do in the short term, pending the investigation, to reduce the vulnerability of the complex system that the Swedish pharmaceutical supply system is?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-178	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my reply, the investigation will submit its report in 2020. There's not much time left, depending on your perspective. The investigation looks at health care preparedness from a broad perspective where the issue of drug supply is one of the issues to be analysed. It's important. The whole re-regulation of the pharmacy market made the situation different. The pharmacy company previously had a responsibility for preparedness. Since this was what stored the drugs, it was done even in wartime. You don't have a different order. When it comes to crisis and preparedness, you actually have the same responsibility as before. Of course, it needs to be reviewed. That doesn't mean nobody's got emergency storage. The National Board of Health, Public Health and County Councils have different parts of the responsibility for emergency storage, but it is not comprehensive. It is important to get the analysis done by the investigation. What is the state of preparedness in health care not only in times of war but also in times of serious peace that may occur? It could be health threats, terrorist attacks or increased preparedness. There are many different situations and scenarios that we could see before us. It is about how we can ensure that we have access to the necessary medicines. The question changed anyway. Personally, however, I am a little surprised that the situation in re-regulation was not dealt with in a slightly better way. But clearly that was not the way it was done. The idea was then that this service would be procured. At present, no private or government-owned operator has any particular responsibility for the storage of medicines for emergency storage. It is also the case that it is not possible to obtain information on how private pharmacies store. It is not possible to get a summary of what the public but also private pharmacies have in common for storage. It is in itself a problem and one of the things that the investigator has to look at and come back with. The question is urgent.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-184	Madam President, I would like There is well reason to be somewhat critical of how the reregulation was carried out from this perspective. But we should also be honest and say that it was not that Sweden had an adequate system of preparedness for serious crises or even war when it comes to drug supply even during Apoteket AB's monopoly period. Now it is urgent to look ahead and find a solution. I'm really looking forward to the investigation. It is also important that the Minister and the Government highlight these issues at European level. We are discussing Brexit here. This is an area that really should be addressed jointly within the EU. The supply is very much about us being dependent on perhaps importing certain substances into our industry. We have a fairly prominent pharmaceutical industry in Sweden. Then it is important that we can ensure not only the supply of finished products but also good trade flows to enable production even in the event of a crisis. This is something that we should discuss and hopefully find common solutions for at European level. It would have been cost-effective and more appropriate. Thank you for the debate. I'm sure we'll have reason to come back once the investigation has been presented.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-188	Madam President, I would like I too think we should look forward, although I would like to emphasise once again that Apoteket AB had an obligation before 2009 to be responsible for the supply of medicinal products in the event of a crisis and preparedness. Various governments have not subsequently taken the responsibility to ensure that it was replaced by other preparedness. It is clear that this issue needs to be addressed. I look forward to the investigation that will take place in 2020. It is important to stress that Sweden is a country where the pharmaceutical industry but also the Medical Products Agency is very prominent and has a prominent position in the European context. It is important how Sweden handles the situation in these contexts. Let me conclude by saying that there are only a little more than two months left before the European elections. Let us hope that important issues will be discussed. This is a typical example that shows us how important it is that we continue to have a Union where we connect and solve common challenges together. It becomes obvious and clear that you stand quite simply as a lonely country in a world that is very much global.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-191	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me how I justify allowing municipalities to take decisions that undermine national legislation, in this case regulated immigration. The interpeller considers that it would be justified to prohibit municipalities from providing sustainable livelihoods to those who do not have the right to reside in the country. On February 13, 2018, I will answer a similar question from Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm. My answer was then, as now, to refer to the fact that, according to the form of government, municipalities handle local and regional matters of general interest on the basis of the municipal self-government. Furthermore, I replied that the Government does not intend to restrict self-government and thus their ability to provide voluntary assistance to persons residing in the municipality. Financial assistance is governed by the Social Services Act. According to this law, municipalities have the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that individuals receive the support and assistance they need. The municipalities are also able to provide assistance on a voluntary basis in addition to the obligations arising from the Social Services Act. Measures relating to children should pay particular attention to the best interests of the child. The Government considers that persons who have been refused an asylum application, or who are staying in Sweden without permission for other reasons, should leave the country. The government also protects regulated immigration. At the same time, I would argue that the application of the Social Services Act by municipalities cannot be said to jeopardise regulated immigration. The municipalities which currently grant aid to persons residing in the country without permission do so, as far as the government is concerned, above all through emergency aid which the interpeller himself thinks is reasonable.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-195	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. We still see the suites of the incredibly large immigration Sweden had in 2015 – 2016. We also see the suites of the Migration Board's problems with long processing times, which also have consequences for our integration into the country. We have a difficult task today in integrating all the people we have in our country. It is a delicate task to do so. I am therefore very concerned about what is happening. We cannot continue to provide support to those who are not entitled to stay in the country. In my world it is wrong, and it gives double signals when you do as individual municipalities and offer long-term support to people who do not have the right to stay in our country. It is, of course, reasonable for persons who have received an expulsion order or who are not entitled to stay in the country to receive short-term assistance. However, this should be done in collaboration with the Migration Agency and with a clear plan for a return trip to the home country. That is how we get a functioning migration policy and build a strong trust. You have to respect the decisions that have been made. If you have been refused an asylum application, you must also return to your country of origin quite immediately. I therefore believe that it is justified to be able to limit local self-determination on this particular point. Otherwise, the consequences will be that the municipal decision runs counter to national law. The municipalities override the decision we have taken on regulated immigration.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-199	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear at the outset that I do not intend to hold a debate on migration policy in this House because this is an interpellation dealing with financial assistance under the Social Services Act. Having said that, I would also like to say that there is no precise regulation of emergency aid. However, it is a matter of temporary assistance for emergency measures so that the individual can avoid distress if the need cannot be met by other means. I would also like to say something about the rejection of the asylum application, which is, of course, the situation that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm points out here. The right to assistance under the Act on the reception of asylum seekers for families with children applies until they have left the country and for adults without children until the period of voluntary departure for the foreigner expires or the decision on expulsion has become final. However, those who remain hidden are not entitled to compensation from the Finnish Immigration Service even if they are covered by this legislation. I have no new answer and nothing other than what Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm received in written form a few weeks ago. We do not intend to limit the right of municipalities to decide whether they need to provide any financial assistance. It's supposed to be the very last thing. If anyone needs emergency assistance, I think that the name itself already tells us what that means. As my answer to the question shows, nothing has come to my attention other than the idea that it is just short-term emergency aid that the municipalities sometimes pay out.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-203	Madam President and the Minister. I agree that emergency aid is reasonable. This is not really the issue, but the longer-term support that many municipalities pay to people who do not have the right to reside in the country or who have received an expulsion decision. This is interesting because, on 4 May last year, the Minister's own party presented an action programme in the area of migration, which clearly states: A number of municipalities have paid out money for the sustainable livelihood of people who are not entitled to reside in the country. It reduces return and undermines trust in the rule of law, and the possibility should therefore be removed. The possibility of assistance should remain if you cannot have your expulsion executed, or need help with your departure from the country. So I read before in the Social Democrats' action programme on migration. My question to the Minister is this: is this continuing social democratic policy, or has it chosen to change the focus of the issue?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-206	Madam President, I would like As Minister of Social Affairs, I am here today debating a question that Elisabeth Rahm, Mr Björnsdotter, has asked about aid to people without the right to reside in the country. The question is simply whether I intend to amend the Local Government Act and ensure that it will not be possible for municipalities to make these decisions. According to the form of government, municipalities handle local and regional matters of general interest on the basis of the municipal self-government. Limiting the possibility for municipalities to voluntarily provide financial assistance constitutes a restriction on the municipal self-government, and we do not intend to make this change. I was clear in my answer, and I do not really think it has escaped Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm even though she may be trying to give that picture: we believe that the person who made an asylum application, had it tested and had a rejection should not remain in the country. That person is leaving the country. These are two different issues. One is about migration policy, in my view. This debate may Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm gladly bring the Minister for Migration. I think that would be most appropriate. However, if it is a question of restricting local self-government with regard to the right to provide financial assistance, as in this case, I would say that the picture is that emergency aid is what the municipalities sometimes pay out. There is therefore no such intention.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-211	Madam President and the Minister. Of course, I intend to continue my migration debate with the Minister for Migration. In this case, however, my intervention concerns the possibility for municipalities to provide subsistence support to persons who are not entitled to stay in the country. I note the Minister's reply that there is no intention to change local selfgovernment on the basis of the question I have put in my interpellation. I can only say that I think this is a dual message, and I think that we should be much more consistent in our position to people who are not entitled to stay in the country. However, I take note of the Minister's position, and I am grateful that the Minister has taken this interpellation debate with me.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-214	Madam President, I would like I will not prolong the interpellation debate so much more than repeating once again that people seeking asylum in Sweden have the right to have a trial and that, of course, we want this examination to be carried out as soon as possible. No one has an interest in it taking time. If you get a rejection, you should not stay in the country; that is clear news. However, municipalities also have a responsibility, according to the municipal autonomy principle, to be able to provide assistance to people when all other possibilities are exhausted if they consider it necessary. What is reaching me, and what is my picture, is that it is precisely emergency aid that is sometimes also given to people who may have to leave the country and who have not yet done so but who will.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-216	Madam President, I would like Tony Haddou and Ulla Andersson have asked me whether I intend to act to change the decision to close Kronofogden's offices in smaller towns. Håkan Svenneling has asked the Minister for Civil Affairs if he intends to act to change the Kronofogden's decision to close down operations in smaller towns. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer that question as well. The questions are raised against the background that the Swedish Enforcement Authority has decided to relocate its operations from Arvika, Mora and Hudiksvall to Karlstad, Falun, Gävle and Sundsvall. The government is serious about the whole of Sweden staying together. Government presence is ultimately about confidence in the public and trust in our administration. All parts of our country are important, and the government is determined that our joint investments will benefit everyone, regardless of where you live in Sweden. The authorities are responsible for ensuring that their respective activities are carried out efficiently and in accordance with the needs of the public. When considering activity reductions, the authorities must also consult with the person responsible for regional growth work, the County Administrative Board and other stakeholders on the possibility of maintaining or developing the business through coordination or collaboration. I expect all the authorities to accept this responsibility. The Swedish Enforcement Authority took a decision in 2018, in accordance with a mission from the Government, to move approximately 80 annual labour force from Stockholm to other parts of the country. This reinforces the state presence in Falun, Gävle, Kalmar, Karlstad, Sundsvall, Umeå, Uppsala, Visby and Östersund, where the annual labour force is moved. State authorities cannot individually maintain an office presence to provide local services throughout the country. Therefore, a state authority responsible for a coherent organisation for local government services is required. As of 1 June 2019, the National Service Centre is responsible for a service office organisation that includes services related to Försäkringskassan, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Pension Agency. Such an organisation provides better conditions for governing the scope and direction of government local service activities. Ten new service offices were opened in 2018. Part of the government's policy is based on the January Agreement, and in the January Agreement we have agreed that more service offices will be established. In order to create the conditions for this, the Government decided on 21 February on a proposal with proposals aimed at ensuring, strengthening and developing access to basic government services at the service offices. The Swedish Enforcement Authority's interim report of 16 October 2018 on the Government's mandate to relocate certain activities shows that it may benefit from the activities of the service offices. The government is therefore taking a series of measures to ensure access to government services throughout the country, and I assume that the Swedish Enforcement Authority, as well as the other state authorities, will take into account the needs of citizens and companies for service when deciding on the location of activities.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-221	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. I think, of course, that it is good that the government has high ambitions in terms of our state authorities and that more service offices should be established. The Prime Minister has also made this clear in the Government Declaration: The Government's goal is not only that the whole country should live and grow but also that Sweden should stick together. As early as last autumn, the Swedish krona bailiff decided to close the offices in Hudiksvall, Arvika and Mora, but even then the government had a similar ambition. The decision came during the time when Sweden had a transitional government. There is no reason to force such a decision when there has also been a period of current transitional government. It is already completely wrong in substance and goes against these announced ambitions. It is also clearly completely wrong in time. Madam President, I would like What we are highlighting in the interpellation, and what has now happened afterwards, is that the government agrees to strengthen the state presence, but at the expense of smaller towns. To close the offices in the places I mentioned and then move the business to the county residences is not to decentralise; on the contrary, it is both a betrayal and an unfair barter at the expense of smaller towns. Moving business to residences does not mean giving the whole country opportunities to live, but only parts of it. It also raises the question of how much a state authority should compromise when considering business reductions. The strategy presented to us in the Tax Committee includes that Kronofogden should not operate in locations with less than 20 000 inhabitants. Setting such a limit is not explained in any way. What is clear, as the Minister for Finance says, is that relocation of certain activities may benefit from the activities of service offices. In what way would closure on the grounds that less than 20 000 inhabitants live in the area bring some kind of greater benefit to the business as a whole? Do not smaller towns have any conditions whatsoever in their calculations to ensure, strengthen and develop access to basic government services? We cannot see this as a reasonable starting point. This is not for the whole country to live and grow – especially for a government agency where spontaneous visits to local offices are common. They play an extremely important role. If smaller local offices disappear, opportunities for advice, support and help will also be lost – but also jobs will be lost. There is also a risk that more businesses will withdraw from smaller towns. The Minister of Finance mentions that she assumes that when deciding on the location of operations, Kronofogden takes into account the needs of citizens and companies for service. It goes without saying that they have not done so. The Minister of Finance also believes that the authorities are responsible for ensuring that their respective activities are carried out according to the needs of the public. In this respect, it is clear that the Kronofogdet has not taken this into account at all. For us, it is obvious that it is the needs that should determine the public service, but why do the smaller communities not have the right to have their needs met?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-230	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance. Let me begin by regretting that we are once again standing here and being forced to have this debate. Here we stand and debate the closures of public authorities despite all the fine words that the whole country should live and grow and about citizens' right to service. Government service is about trust in the community we're going to live in together. Is the service there for me, for my neighbours and for us in our area and closeness? Does the state believe that we are worth it and need it? It's about being able to live in different parts of the country. For a long time the trend has been centralisation – structural centralisation. Unfortunately, government services have often been the first to disappear from the countryside, the small town or the small municipality. Since then, the private sector has been forced to follow in such a way that the overall service has been impoverished. That is why the decisions on the relocation of state authorities under the previous government were so important. They gave hope that a new trend was coming, that the state actually takes responsibility for the whole country. There were many of us who believed that the government was serious about its decisions and its message. The decision to close Kronofogden's operations in, among other things, Hudiksvall in Gävleborg, from which I come, was therefore completely surprising for all of us – the municipality, the employees, those who need the service and all of us who believed in a new order regarding the presence of the state in the country. The entire Hälsingland is now placed without Kronofogden's service. The routes to the Authority are extended by 20 - 300 km. But it was a transitional government when the authority made its decision, so we probably thought that these words would still apply. The government wants to increase the state presence around Sweden. We actually thought that would apply. But apparently it does not in Hälsingland. Instead, the government service should be reduced, yes, even disappear, at least if the krona officer is allowed to decide. Unfortunately, now it seems that the government is also giving its propensity for aid. But you have time to change your decision. I had the hope that these decisions would change when a new government came into place, that the government would choose to live up to the beautiful words. That's why I wrote this interpellation. The Government says in its response to us that it is serious that all of Sweden should stick together, that it is about confidence in the public and trust in our administration, that all parts of our country are important and that the government is determined that our joint investments will benefit everyone, regardless of where you live in Sweden. Sounds beautiful, doesn't it? But ask Hudiksvalls residents, ask the municipality and ask those who need the services of Kronofogden in Hälsingland if they think that the words are followed by action. Or ask the employees. For a municipality like Hudiksvall, these jobs are important, partly because companies may need to recruit and partly because the service itself is important. The municipality has therefore protested. Names have been collected and actions taken to prevent the closure of the business. We MPs from the county have acted in different ways. We simply think that it is reasonable for the state's service to be maintained. Why should Hälsingland stand without the service of Kronofogden? Shouldn't smaller towns have access to government services anymore, Minister of Finance?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-240	Madam President, I would like In recent years, the government has made decisions on the relocation of government jobs. 2,000 jobs move from our metropolitan regions to smaller towns all over the country. The Swedish Enforcement Authority is one of the authorities that have moved services from Stockholm to other parts of the country. 80 years of work have been moved. This is a job that I would like to continue during this parliamentary term because we see that there needs to be government jobs throughout the country. That is the direction and ambition of the government. At the same time, there is usually a fairly broad consensus in politics that it is also not good if we here in Stockholm, in the Swedish parliament and government, sit and decide exactly how individual authorities should organise their activities, exactly where they should have offices and exactly how many staff there should be in the individual offices. That is why it is not the government or parliament that decides on the exact location of individual jobs or offices, but it is up to the authorities. This means that it is not the government or parliament that has made these decisions, but it is the Supreme Court that has taken them as an independent authority. I think it is a reasonable order that we, from the government and the parliament, give instructions to the authorities in general on how to organise their activities but that we give the authorities the opportunity to make their own decisions on exactly what offices to have and how many to have. We could have a system where we decide exactly which places there should be offices, but should there be any sense in that, we should also decide that those offices must not be too small, and then we are really in and in detail controlling authorities in a way that the Riksdag has not so far judged is appropriate to govern our administration.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-243	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that there is no one who has said that we should regulate in detail how an authority organises itself. However, with all due respect to the Minister for Finance, I would like to say that here an authority goes against the political orientation of which the Minister for Finance himself speaks so well. Madam President, I would like If the government believes that a change or a reduction in activity or so-called efficiency is manageable in itself, I must say that the whole of our state authorities is missing. An impoverished local service is one of the main reasons why other services disappear from smaller towns, thereby limiting the possibility of staying or working in the locality. The bailiff has contributed to this by sharply cutting down on its local offices. That's where the whole thing goes when it comes to the state authorities. When one assumes, as this authority, that service should be provided in other ways, it risks that the service is not provided at all. What happens is that jobs are relocated and people are only employed in more densely populated areas. Here, as I highlighted earlier, Kronofogden has a very high roof that leaves many parts of the country behind. That, of course, is quite the wrong way to go. Madam President, I would like Moving to larger cities and leaving smaller towns is the way market forces behave. Resources are drawn to the centres and a little larger cities, or as in this case to the regional cities. This is precisely where the government needs to prioritise and use politics as a counterforce and not leave the smaller places to their fate. That is the political path we want the Finance Minister to take. The government must assume its responsibilities so that the state authorities are present in smaller towns as well. This decision is both hastened and ill-considered, and it is possible to do it again. We are not saying that you should run an authority in detail, but it is possible to make other decisions about this authority.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-248	Madam President, I would like I quote from the government: this is about both government jobs and citizens' access to services. The government has therefore decided that... the state service in the country will be improved. That is what I thought the Minister for Finance would stand up for – that the decisions that the government actually makes should also be followed by its authorities. It is not reasonable that the whole of Hälsingland should be without the service of the Swedish Enforcement Authority. The Minister of Finance also tells us in her reply here that she assumes that the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the other state authorities, when deciding on the location of operations, take into account the needs of citizens and entrepreneurs for service. In what way has Kronofogden done so, says the Government? No consultation has taken place with either the county administrative board or the municipality. The employees didn't find out more than by e-mail an hour before it was published. Have those who are dependent on the service of the Enforcement Authority been asked? No. There are many peculiarities in the basis from which this decision has been taken. Tony Haddou mentioned that there should be no service in towns with less than 20 000 inhabitants. Where did it come from? Is it a new government guideline that no place in this country with fewer than 20,000 inhabitants should have access to government services? Or, as it also says in the decision-making documents, that only places that have colleges should be covered by the authority's service – where did it come from? Is that new too? And is it supposed to be a college that actually has education aimed at the activities of these authorities? There's nothing about that in the background. In fact, Hudiksvall has good access to trained staff, low staff turnover and lower costs for staff and rent, because it is actually more expensive to be in larger locations, and it is also more expensive with longer travel routes. The Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten writes in its documentation that you can have it as in Norrbotten. It is a rather strange statement that in Hälsingland you should have it as in Norrbotten. There is a lot that is good in Norrbotten, but I don't think we should create longer distances than we actually have. Is it reasonable to have to travel 20 - 300 miles [200 - 300 km] in order to have access to service? Is it reasonable that economically vulnerable people who do not have access to bank IDs and cannot take part in digitisation and cannot subscribe should be fully referred to the digitisation of which they cannot be part? I don't think so. In fact, I had expected a different focus on the decision of the newly elected government. Another point that I would like to make and which I think is very serious is that the Kronofogdet has gaged the employees. They are not allowed to receive visitors. However, if they are allowed to visit the offices, there must be a manager present. When this decision came under a transitional government, I thought: Why are they making this decision? I guess we'll go over there and see what happened! But we were denied access. That is not the way an authority takes responsibility. That is how a afraid authority acts, and that is not good for trust in the government service. I hope the government will reconsider. I guess it's worth doing that sometimes. Sometimes things get wrong. We had a transitional government when this decision was made. A new government can show another direction where you have many beautiful and fine words and live up to them. In fact, Hälsingland needs it.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-255	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by pointing out that this is not the direction of the government but the direction of the Enforcement Authority. Ulla Andersson has many relevant questions about the focus of the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten, which it is important that there is an opportunity for members of parliament to ask. I hope that Ulla Andersson or any other representative of the Left Party will also put them before the Kronofogdemyndigheten. Of course, it is important that our elected representatives in this House have the opportunity to visit all the authorities. I assume that all our authorities will ensure that, at appropriate times, when possible, visits are arranged for all Members of Parliament. It is important that members of parliament can gain insight into the activities of the authorities because they are in charge of the authorities. Should the government change direction? The decisions that have been made about these places are, as I said, a direction that the Swedish Enforcement Authority has decided on. The government has not made any decisions that there should be no authorities in places with fewer than 20 000 inhabitants. This is obviously not a government guideline. On the other hand, the government has made a general decision that authorities should move out of Stockholm. The enforcement authority is one of the authorities that has done so. They have moved 80 services from the Stockholm area. There the Swedish Enforcement Authority has followed the direction it has received from the government. Would it be to rule in detail or not if the government were to go in and decide that the Enforcement Authority would locate these very activities? Yes, of course it would be detail control. Then we'll take over the whole decision about exactly where you can have offices. And if we make those decisions about these three offices, I assume that we will make decisions about all the offices at Kronofogdemyndigheten and all the offices of all the other authorities. I am not sure that this would be the best way to govern government. So far, an overwhelming majority in the Parliament's Chamber has also made that assessment. It is important that there is service throughout the country. This can be done by having offices, it can be done by having spontaneous visits to offices and it can be done through service offices. If I have understood correctly, they are looking at the possibility of participating in the service offices. I believe that the service offices will be a new and modern version of service that the state will be able to have. In addition, there is digital service. But just as Ulla Andersson says, it is not possible for all people to have digital service. In addition, there are telephone services from the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten and others, as well as other possibilities. So there are other opportunities for service than spontaneous visits to government offices. The government has made it clear that we want to develop it by expanding the service office structure. Additional authorities shall be able to join that structure.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-263	Madam President, I would like There are differences in visiting activities. In the Tax Committee, for example, we have the opportunity to visit Kronofogden and so on. But it is visits that we have decided with Kronofogden. What Mrs Ulla is referring to is that we are not allowed to visit the staff of the office that is threatened with closure. That's where the problem lies. You gag staff, and we can't go through their union and so on. This is a major problem for the Kronofogde, which I hope the Minister for Finance will review. When it comes to relocating in the country, there is a broad majority in favour of it. We think it's good. But to relocate and claim to work with decentralisation by moving operations to Jönköping, for example, and saying that Mora is too small is not decentralisation if you want the whole country to live. As I said in my first speech, it is about parts of the country to live. I still wonder why smaller towns do not have those rights. We would rather have seen a country where one can really stick together, where one does not allow government authorities to make these differences between larger and smaller towns. Basic public services must be provided throughout the country, even in the smaller towns. There is also a rights perspective on the issue that the government is totally missing. Everyone should be able to live in which places in Sweden they want. This perspective of rights requires a level playing field throughout the country, so that one does not have to move because of betrayals such as the disappearance of jobs or, as in this case, leaving the county in which one lives behind. I would like to conclude by saying that the government should assume its responsibilities and prevent the closure. Instead, the government should go in with the ambition of state service throughout the country in real terms on the basis of the government declaration and the ambitions that the Finance Minister claims to have.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-269	Madam President, I would like I can inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs had a good trip to Finland, from which I have just arrived. Parliament is the main representative of the people. We are directly elected by the people and have the task of electing the government and, above all, examining the government. The assignment includes visiting companies and organisations and of course also authorities such as Kronofogden. It was therefore very surprising to me when it turned out to be difficult for me to visit the Kronofogden in Arvika. Never in my years as a Member of Parliament has it been difficult to make a visit. It turned out that the Kronofogden's press department had decided that this would not be possible. In the end, after many ifs and buts, I was assigned to the visiting room where I had to sit with a middle manager and a staff representative. In recent years, politics has made it clear that government jobs should exist outside this capital city. We will make sure that the state is available to everyone. In Stockholm there are 18 500 too many government jobs in relation to how many people live here. If you look at a ratio you can see that there are 1.57 government jobs per inhabitant. In Arvika the corresponding quota is 0.37. In Hudiksvall it is 0.42 and in Mora 0.45. There is thus a shortage of government jobs in those places in relation to the number of people living there. In the press release sent out by the Kronofogden, the Director General wrote that the move is in line with the Government's desire to strengthen the state presence outside Stockholm. It becomes absurd when you do not see that you actually centralise, from small towns to central towns. I was a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development, which many times formulated the policy of the whole of Sweden living, of politics and the state being present throughout the country. And yet you walk away from this. I think it is time for the Minister of Finance to act. The change has not been completed. It will take place at the earliest in a year and a half. I think the Minister for Finance needs to answer the question: is this, as the Director-General says, in line with government policy?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-276	Madam President, I would like In order for Sweden to stick together, it is important to have a government presence throughout the country, says the government. The government wants to increase the state presence around Sweden. These are fine and beautiful words, which we think should govern politics. But it is also about trust and confidence in government services and politics. If you speak fine words, they must also include concrete policies. It's still the way you run it. It governs by laying down principles, and it governs its authorities by means of regulatory letters and by saying that these principles apply. We think that the beautiful words should also apply to places with fewer than 20 000 inhabitants. We think it is important for politics to keep its promises. And we think it's important that government agencies make their decisions on the basis that holds for scrutiny. In this way, I do not think it is in the case of the Enforcement Authority. I hope that the Minister for Finance, who I understand is defending his authorities, will leave and take another thought round. I do not think that the government believes that the service in the whole country should not apply in smaller towns, or that it should not apply in places that do not have colleges. That would be a whole new principle that we have not had here before. If we were to ask around, I don't think people would do it. You think the whole country should be allowed to live and grow. I think we need a bailiff's office in Hälsingland. You should not have to travel 20 - 300 km to take part of that service. There is much work to be done in improving government services. And I think that's the way we should go. Good service throughout the country is well worth working politically for. Let's do it!
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-281	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should not just have government services or government jobs in towns with over 20,000 inhabitants and where there is a college. That would be ridiculous. There are, of course, no such guidelines from the government. At the same time, of course, each authority sets its own principles for managing its location. It is natural for them to do so, but there are absolutely no government guidelines. Nor do I see any progress in this area for all the authorities, especially in terms of services. We are now expanding the service offices. A large number of new service offices were created at the end of the last term of office. In the January agreement, we are clear that we will continue to expand them. Now that this is in a single central organisation, there will be opportunities for additional authorities to join. I see that this is an activity that will be able to be expanded in the case of spontaneous visits to the service offices. At the same time, it is important to say that very many of the contacts we have with the authorities today do not require a physical visit. The availability of service is better than it has ever been. Very much of the service we need from the authorities, we can take care of 24:7 from home the living room sofa or kitchen table via digital services or the telephone service provided by the authorities. In this way the service has really improved t s. Of course, there is sometimes a need to make physical visits, and of course they should also be possible to make. We therefore have a question of services and jobs. A wide range of jobs have been relocated from Stockholm to other parts of the country. The enforcement authority is one of the authorities that has done this. As a result, 80 new jobs have been created outside the Stockholm region.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-286	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me how the government intends to make it more profitable for people with low incomes to work. First of all, let me say that I appreciate the interpellier's concern for Sweden's low-income earner. Tackling the growing gaps is an urgent societal challenge and was a clear priority for the government during the last term of office. That priority is still valid, as is also explicitly stated in the agreement reached by the government parties with the Liberals and the Center Party. The tax system should contribute to this, but it is also crucial that people come out of unemployment and that welfare functions satisfactorily. The need for tax reform is something I have been pointing out for a long time. We have chosen a time when the Swedish economy is well equipped. The budget deficit has turned into surplus, the employment rate is the highest in over 25 years and the public debt is at the lowest level since the 1970s. This development is something that the government will safeguard, including in the process of designing a new tax reform. It will be a great job and, of course, I do not intend to speculate on what the final product might look like. However, I would like to emphasise that it is unthinkable for the government to jeopardise the funding of welfare. The fact that everyone – regardless of income – gets access to healthcare, care for the elderly, school, child benefit and much more when they need it is in itself a powerful redistributive policy. It can also be noted that the design of the tax system means that low-income people currently face tax rates that can be considered relatively low from an international perspective. With regard to the interpellier's demand for lower income tax reductions in order to accept abolished military tax, this is somewhat surprising. Moderate party leader Ulf Kristersson has repeatedly stressed the need for reduced marginal taxes. In the unilateral declaration of intent of the Moderates and Christian Democrats on the policy they would pursue in government, one of the 16 priority points was pointed out to focus on the reduction of marginal taxes and the abolition of the military tax. On the other hand, the letter of intent does not mention any reduction in the gap or taxes for low-income earners. In this discussion, I would like to emphasise that it is not primarily differences in labour income that are responsible for the growing gaps in society. Between 1995 and 2016, the average capital income increased by nearly 500 per cent, while the development of labour income was considerably more modest. In addition, capital income has become more unevenly distributed, with a very large proportion allocated to a small group of people. Those who claim to want to reduce social disparities therefore have reason to consider more aspects than just marginal tax on labour. Another important measure to increase equality in society is that people actually pay the tax they are supposed to pay. There are many of us who have been upset by the reports in recent years about how Sweden loses billions annually due to tax evasion. It is money that can be used to finance health care and schools and create jobs and growth. The Government therefore intends to step up efforts to combat tax evasion and tax evasion.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-293	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The question to which I wished to respond was whether the Minister of Finance intends to make it more profitable for low-income people to work. I had hoped that the Minister of Finance would answer yes to the question and showed an understanding that it is wrong to unilaterally reduce the tax burden on those with high incomes in a situation where large groups are outside the labour market and economic activity is expected to turn downwards. We know that it is above all reduced taxes on lower incomes that lead to increased employment. There is an underlying trend towards widening economic gaps. The question is whether a policy is pursued that reinforces or counteracts this. A reduction in military tax before considering how to make ordinary employees and LO members also keep more in their wallets is a bad policy. A phasing out of the military tax needs to be combined with measures so that tax relief does not only benefit high income earners. In his interpellation response, the Minister of Finance points out that closing the growing gaps is an urgent societal challenge and was a clear priority for the government during the last term of office. That priority is still valid, as is also explicitly stated in the agreement reached by the government parties with the Liberals and the Center Party. ..................................................... How does the Minister of Finance feel that the work to close the growing gap has gone? According to SCB, income inequality in Sweden has grown to be the largest in several decades. If you look at the so-called Gini index, which is based on all household income after taxes and transfers, you can see that the trend is clear and upward. Sweden has systematically measured the Gini coefficient since the 1970s. After just over a term of office with Magdalena Andersson as Minister of Finance, we have achieved the highest record since the measurement started. Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the outcome of the government's priority work?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-298	Madam President, I would like Four years ago, when I took over as Minister of Finance, I inherited a very large budget deficit that Mattias Karlsson's party the Moderates left behind. This meant that, in the first part of the last parliamentary term, we were forced to put our time and effort into order in public finances. The scope for reform was very limited because you had chosen in an unfunded way to lower the tax, which created these very large holes in public finances. At the end of the parliamentary term, there was better room for reinforcements, and so did we. They had a very good distributional policy profile. If you look at the policy put forward by the government in the last parliamentary term, you can see that it was a clear distributional political profile, at least if you are a social democrat. On the other hand, the distribution profile of the budget movement that went through the Riksdag and which Mattias Karlsson's party was behind is quite different, in fact the opposite. It is a budget that gives the most to those who earn the most, which is contrary to the policy that we in the Social Democrats and the Green Party conducted during the last parliamentary term. The policy of the Moderates is a policy that benefits those who have the highest incomes. There is no doubt about this after the eight years of bourgeois government. But we don't have to look so far back; just look at the budget motion presented by the Moderates in the autumn. There is a clear distribution profile with the most to those who earn the most. It is contrary to the policy we pursued, where we gave the most to those who earn the least. The fact that the Moderates are a party for the rich and that we Social Democrats stand up for the majority of the people becomes extremely clear when you look at the economic policy that has been put into practice.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-303	Madam President, I would like I recall last year when, throughout the electoral movement, the Finance Minister tried to claim that the Moderates unilaterally reduced the taxes for the rich, which in itself was grossly misleading. One reason why the alliance government received such broad support over eight years was precisely that the tax cuts were mainly directed at low and middle income earners and therefore perceived as fair. In any case, the Minister for Finance can be pleased that the Riksdag approved the M-KD budget for 2019, which included a strengthening of the employment tax credit of 10 billion with a particular focus on low income. If this budget had not been approved, the income gap with this government would have increased at a higher rate.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-305	Madam President, I would like If we look at the budget that went through, we see that most of the money goes to them with the highest income. Those are facts. Just look at a diagram of how the money has been distributed among the different income groups; most of the money goes to them with the highest income. Of course! It's moderate politics. That's why you're in politics. You want to give more to those who already have. It's implanted in the Moderate DNA. We Social Democrats stand for a policy that closes the gap. It is quite correct that we have had to compromise in the January agreement. I did not go to elections to abolish the military tax, but it was a concession we had to make in the negotiations so that Sweden would have a government. We thought it was better than having an M-KD government supported by SD, which, incidentally, was something Ulf Kristersson said in the election movement that he would never go forward with.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-307	Madam President, I would like In my interpellation, I say that it would be good if the defence tax were abolished during the term of office. I believe that there are good economic arguments for phasing out the defence tax. The problem I want to highlight in the interpellation is the consequences of the January agreement hitting ordinary wage earners. The Government also intends, according to the agreement, to carry out a green tax exchange of SEK 15 billion, which means reduced tax on labour and increased tax on things that are bad for the environment and climate. Since the Minister for Finance and the Government have not said what taxes are to be increased, there is cause for concern that the distribution profile here too is going wrong. It cannot be the case that ordinary wage earners should pay for abolished military tax and increased petrol and diesel taxes. It would not be fair to all those who mainly live in rural areas and every day have to take the car to work, to kindergarten, to the store, yes everywhere.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-310	Madam President, I would like Here I agree entirely with Mattias Karlsson. To finance an abolished defence tax by allowing the petrol tax to be increased would be a totally unreasonable policy. Those who benefit from the war tax are people who live in our metropolitan regions. Even if they drive a lot of cars and therefore would pay a lot of the petrol tax increase, there are actually alternatives. You can choose to get on the bus, metro, train or commuter train – unlike people out in rural areas. In sparsely populated areas, fewer people live with high incomes, but people are not able to choose alternatives in the form of public transport. Therefore, it is not at all appropriate for the government to finance abolished military tax with an increase in petrol tax. It will not be part of the green tax exchange. When we are going to carry out the green tax shift, we shall, of course, look to ensure that there is a reasonable distribution profile on the overall package. This is an extremely important issue for us. Society needs to be changed. Society needs to be more climate-smart. We cannot go further on the path that existed in the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats, where a large slaughter was carried out on environmental investments. We need to change the climate. Children are on a school strike just to do this. Then we must find a path where all citizens have the opportunity to be involved in the transition, and that must be done with great care because the living conditions are different in different parts of the country. One thing is clear. If this is to be done, it is this government we need. The Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats clearly showed that they are parties that lack environmental profile, and they carried out a slaughter on the environmental budget. How out-of-date!
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-315	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me how to finance the government's planned reforms. Three times out of three possible bourgeois governments have left large deficits behind, which Social Democratic finance ministers have then had to clean up. In 2014, we inherited a deficit of around SEK 60 billion from the previous government. The deficit was explained by large unfunded tax reductions with a clear distribution profile against high-income people. We have then turned this deficit into a large surplus. We have paid off on the public debt, which is at its lowest level since 1977. We have been able to do this because we always put stable and sustainable public finances ahead of major unfunded tax cuts. We believe that careful consideration should be given to the economic scope for new reforms. Full preparedness must also be available to deal with a situation where the economic cycle is changing. The first point of the January Agreement is to safeguard the agreement on the fiscal framework.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-319	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the answers, although unfortunately they have not answered the questions I have asked. The agreement that has been reached between the government and its support parties The Center Party and the Liberals contains reforms of the order of SEK 60 to 65 billion. Then I didn't count on high-speed trains and the Norrbotnia Line. Of course, the proposals on family days and holidays will also undermine the work line. At the same time, for example, efforts on law and order are not included in the list of reforms agreed upon. It is therefore reasonable to assume that the costs of the policy you wish to pursue are higher. This is happening in a situation where there is an imminent risk of us entering a recession during our term of office. The Left Party has also, according to its own statements, gained influence over the policies that are not included in the agreement. This in itself does not feel reassuring from a financial stability perspective. I fully share the view of the Minister for Finance that care must be taken when judging the economic space available for new reforms. The problem is that the January Agreement has taken up much of the remaining scope for reform for its term of office. Concerns remain: the Minister of Finance has failed to use the boom to prepare the state finances for a downturn in the economy. What indicates that the Minister of Finance would succeed in tackling the problems of a recession?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-325	Madam President, I would like That was a rather strange description of the reality of a finance minister who has made sure that we now have the lowest public debt since 1977. It is a fact that we have now wiped out the impressions of bourgeois governments on state finances after the Second World War. Every time Sweden has a bourgeois government, it leaves behind a large deficit. It has taken place three times out of three possible in modern times. Every time since Social Democratic Finance Ministers have created order and order again. So this time, too. Now we have the lowest public debt since 1977. It is because we had order in public finances during the last parliamentary term. I will, of course, continue my tradition and that of my predecessors to ensure order and order, which is different from the practice of Moderates when they have run public finances because they have left behind large deficits.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-327	Madam President, I would like The use of good economic times to prepare for bad times is a fundamental principle of responsible fiscal policy. Unfortunately, the present government is making a significant departure from this principle. Sweden currently saves considerably less than in any of the recent booms, which means that we are less equipped when the next recession comes. The expansive budgets of the Minister of Finance during the boom of recent years are thus in breach of the rule of thumb that fiscal policy should pour oil on both high- and recession. During the alliance years, in a burning financial crisis, tax revenues increased because more came into work. In addition, welfare was strengthened. How was this possible? Of course, this was due to the fact that, during the economic boom preceding the financial crisis, a tight fiscal policy that had created strong public finances had been pursued, which allowed for more expansionary policies that allowed Sweden to cope with the recession far better than other countries in Europe. I am convinced that the Minister for Finance is making a historic mistake in choosing to fuel the boom with an expansive fiscal policy rather than strengthening the state finances and implementing the structural reforms that would have been necessary to cope with the next recession. The Minister of Finance is welcome to correct me if I am wrong, but there is no Swedish Minister of Finance for the last 30 years who has saved less in a boom than Magdalena Andersson has done?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-332	Madam President, I would like It's a very interesting story we hear from Mattias Karlsson. Let me just remind you what the situation was four and a half years ago when we entered the Government Office again. The Moderates had been in charge of the Ministry of Finance for eight years, leaving behind the biggest budget deficit since the budgetary adjustment. Mattias Karlsson is now talking about a burning financial crisis, but I can tell Mattias Karlsson that 2014 was not a burning financial crisis. Yet it was 60 billion in budget deficits – 1 per cent structural deficit in public finances instead of 1 per cent surplus, which one should have had. It was something we had to deal with, but it wasn't just that. What was the result on the labour market? It was higher unemployment, higher youth unemployment and higher long-term unemployment. We had to carry out important reforms in the labour market in order for people to get back to work. What was the result in welfare? Well, the number of thousands employed in community-funded employment had fallen dramatically over these eight years because priority had been given to tax cuts – most for those who earn the most – rather than spending on welfare. That's the financial statement for eight years of Moderates at the Ministry of Finance. What is it like now, after four years, when we Social Democrats have ruled together with the Green Party? Well, now we have the lowest government debt since 1977. We have created order in public finances and have a surplus in public finances. We will see how much of this has been taken up by the Moderates and what it looks like after the major tax cuts in the budget that went through. But we have the highest employment rate in 25 years. Youth unemployment and long-term unemployment have fallen. The time for new arrivals to enter the labour market has halved, and the number of employees in community-funded employment – that is, our welfare activities – has increased radically over these four years because we have invested EUR 35 billion in this. That is the result of our policy. Then the Swedish people have been able to put these alternatives against each other. It is clear that there is a party that stands up for order in public finances, for welfare and for more people to come to work, and that is the Social Democrats.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-339	Madam President, I would like Finally, it can be noted that the Council of Finance Ministers has been warning for many years now that fiscal policy is far too expansionary. Sweden rarely makes soft landings in recessions. That is why we need economic ramparts, and they need to be bigger than they are today. The fact that the Minister of Finance is so badly failing to conduct a responsible fiscal policy will mean that Sweden is less equipped for a severe slowdown in the economy. It is unclear what principles govern fiscal policy at the moment, and that is frightening.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-341	Madam President, I would like It must almost be an expression of a certain sense of humor that Mattias Karlsson says that I should build larger shelters, when he has just voted through a budget here in the Riksdag with very extensive tax cuts of SEK 20 billion, which take up the entire scope for reform and possibly more. It remains to be seen what the figures will look like. But some shelters have Mattias Karlsson not built with the decisions he has been involved in making in the Riksdag.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-342	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me whether I intend to permanently abolish the cap on deferred capital gains taxation. The ceiling for deferrals on the sale of private dwellings is temporarily abolished for sales carried out between 21 June 2016 and 30 June 2020. The aim of the measure is to contribute to greater mobility of housing and the labour market and to more efficient use of the housing stock. The housing market needs to be reformed so that more people's needs can be met, rules simplified and competition increased. The government is doing several things to achieve this. Tax issues are dealt with within the framework of the ordinary budgetary process. I do not want to anticipate that work.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-345	Madam President, I would like The background to my question is that today we have a housing market that is not working. Too many people stand without a home or are unable to move away from home or to the accommodation they actually need. The reasons for the situation can be discussed, but two factors are obvious. The first is that far too few homes are being built in Sweden. According to forecasts, we are down to about half of the number of new homes we would need. We are down to about 40,000 and would need about 70 000 new homes per year. One effect of this is that people cannot move to suitable housing or to their first home. A family that needs more space as it grows finds it difficult to get loans with today's rules. Another effect that I find problematic is that the number of social contracts is decreasing while the need for these contracts is increasing significantly. The group that needs social contracts has doubled since 2015, I would say. It is an issue that we can discuss on another occasion, but it is a clear problem in today's housing market. The second obvious factor is that, together with the credit restrictions, moving taxes make people stuck in the home they have or cannot buy a home at all. This is most problematic for young people who want to enter a new labour market or a new housing market. The government addresses one of these problems by removing the ceiling for the deferral payment until June 2020. This makes it possible, in my opinion, to see greater mobility on the housing market, albeit on a smaller scale. In order to achieve greater mobility, we need to tackle the problem of credit restrictions in a broader perspective. The January Agreement has agreed to remove the interest on the deferral. I think that is basically a good idea, but only if it is done together with a permanent removal of the ceiling on the amount of the deferral. These two elements should work together and together create better mobility in the housing market. Mobility in the housing market is the factor that can create a functioning but also appropriate housing market, which in turn can create more housing. Together with new homes, we must create the possibility of moving to the home that suits you according to your needs. The Minister himself writes in his reply that the measure to remove the ceiling on the amount of the deferral is aimed at increasing mobility on the housing and labour market. Of course, I share that picture. But I have two supplementary questions. Does the Minister think that these two elements, the removal of the ceiling and the deferral rate, can work together and thus increase mobility? Can the Minister give a small opening for these two reforms to become permanent and work together in a longer perspective?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-354	Madam President, I would like Too many people in Sweden do not have the opportunity to move to their own home. Too many people are forced to stay at home longer, live very crowded or move around among many and short unsafe contracts. This is not a reasonable situation. We have a housing shortage, and that means that we need to build more housing. That is why the previous government introduced investment aid, precisely in order to build more homes. The aim was also to build homes that people with normal income can afford to rent. For those who want to take part in the aid, there are therefore clear requirements on how high the rent can be. This is an important instrument for more people to move. Thousands of homes are now being built throughout the country thanks to the support. Unfortunately, the Christian Democrats want to dismantle it in the budget reservation voted through. The support enables people who currently have no place of residence to have one. There, the care of the Christian Democrats seems to be limited. Of course, it is also important for people who already have a home to be able to change if you have a new need. The Christian Democrats were involved in introducing the deferral rate that exists today. I remember, in particular, how the former party leader Göran Hägglund, in connection with the 2006 election, stood on television and said that it was better to pay the tax when you had the money in your fist, i.e. when you were moving, than when you lived in the dwelling. The introduction of the deferral rate was, as I understand it, a demand from the Christian Democrats. Larry Söder can possibly reflect a little on what the Christian Democrats' journey has looked like on that particular issue over the last decade.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-358	Madam President, I would like I would argue that the January agreement that now exists is rather thin in terms of coping with imbalances in the housing market. It does not provide so many solutions, and we are probably all aware that more measures are needed. In the January agreement, the government opens up to reintroduce investment aid, albeit in a different form. The M-KD budget was intended to phase this out, as the Minister said. However, I do not agree with the Minister that the support led to the creation of more housing. There were possibly more rental dwellings, but it is unlikely that the total number of dwellings increased. Now it feels like those who applied at the end of the period but did not get answers before the end of the year have come between. I do not think this is the will of this government, nor do I believe that it was the will of the M-KD budget. Since the Minister is in favour of the investment aid coming back in some form, my question is: does the Minister have any information to give to those who have made the application but have not been informed? Will there be any transitional rule for them, or is it the idea that everything will start all over again when the new investment aid comes? Since the Minister was so excited about investment aid, I think that relief can be made for those who expect it. However, I would like to return to the financing of the housing market and the deferral rate, which the interpellation is about. What is the minister's purpose in removing the deferral interest? Why is it a priority? Does the Minister not see the problem of removing interest on the one hand and reintroducing the ceiling which reduces the scope for those with less capital on the other? For me, these are two countermeasures. I mentioned that the financing of housing is one of the biggest problems today, both from a private economic point of view and from the point of view of companies. If the private person cannot sign up for a right-of-occupancy apartment in good time before it is completed, the companies today cannot build right-of-occupancy apartments due to increased requirements for borrowing. For example, today a household will be able to cope with the KALP calculations, which means an interest rate of 7 – 8 percent. One should also be able to amortise 1 – 3 per cent of the loans per year. In addition, you should be able to pay 15% in a down payment. For a household in Stockholm that will buy an apartment for SEK 3 million, this means that the bank must test the household for a housing cost of SEK 18 500. The actual cost is SEK 8 500. So there is a difference of 10 000 kroner a month, and you have to do that in order to borrow. In addition, you must have half a million dollars in equity, or borrow it in other ways. This example shows how regulation on regulation has been imposed, without taking account of the overall picture. Since we already had an amortisation requirement in essence, the question of why it should be reinforced with yet another one had been relevant. I'm not after who did or told you what. However, I would like us to reach the common position that this is precisely the single biggest issue we need to resolve in the housing market today. Housing policy talks between all parties would be needed in order to obtain a broader solution. My question is therefore: will there be any transitional rules for those who have applied but have not received an answer on investment aid? Can the Minister envisage a broader discussion with all parties on how to increase mobility in the housing market on the basis of the discussion we have today?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-368	Madam President, I would like We are currently working on investment support, and it will be announced as soon as the preparation is completed. I hope, of course, that things will go as quickly as possible, because I know that, just as Larry Söder mentions, there are many companies waiting for the news. It is also interesting that the Christian Democrats now want broad discussions on housing and housing policy. I can only remind you that the Christian Democrats were one of the parties that dropped out of the talks that the government invited during the last parliamentary term. So the Christian Democrats themselves have chosen to close those talks. I will say something about what the interpellation is about, namely the temporary abolition of the suspension ceiling. There was a particular thought about the far limit of the abolition, namely that there is currently a very large housing shortage. This can affect many older ones, so there is currently a window for older ones. For those who intend to move to a smaller dwelling, it is good if these decisions are made here and now so that the rotation of the housing market can be improved. That is why, among other things, we set a more distant deadline for this – to try to get the rules here and now.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-371	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are always prepared to discuss. If you then come up with a solution when you discuss it is a completely different matter. I believe that the housing shortage in Sweden requires that we actually dare to discuss and break opinions against each other. It is gratifying to hear that the discussion on investment aid and its design is under way and that those waiting to know how to deal with this can be informed quite soon. I also believe that the housing shortage will be as great in June 2020 as it is now. I therefore believe that the temporary abolition of the ceiling on the amount of the deferral is interesting to maintain. I still think these two parts can work with each other to make it as good as possible. Nevertheless, I think we can conclude that the Minister and I have a similar view, that is to say that we see the same problem. I believe that we can meet and find solutions in many ways, but in this debate I think the Minister has a lesson to do before we get closer.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-375	Madam President, I would like I want to thank you for the interpellation! These are extremely important issues. We need a better functioning housing market. Considerably more people than today must be given the opportunity to have a home that suits their needs. Among other things, it is about older people having the opportunity to move to an apartment that is adapted to their needs. More retirement homes and shelters need to be built, but also other forms of housing for our elderly. We must also ensure that our young people are given the opportunity to leave home and that people can move to where there is a job. Therefore, more housing needs to be built throughout the country. There is also a need to build more homes that people can afford to live in. Therefore, I can only regret that the Christian Democrats are one of the parties that does not want the investment aid that today allows thousands of homes to be built precisely for the purpose of having rents suitable for people with more normal incomes. It is only to be regretted. It is something that today enables many to move.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-377	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me about the employment effects of the January agreement and how I intend to increase the momentum for work for those who are not working. He has also asked for my assessment of how the January agreement will affect public savings compared to the projections in the budget bill for 2019. Jobs and employment are the priority areas in the January agreement. A job is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and, for foreign born, establishment in Swedish society. There should be good drivers for work and good opportunities to get support for those who find it difficult to enter the labour market. The January agreement contains a wide range of proposals for increased employment, such as years of integration, knowledge transfer, start-up jobs and another 20 welfare billions to municipalities and county councils. In the context of the budget proposals, we will normally make an overall assessment of the impact of the proposals on employment. The agreement on the fiscal framework is solid, and the government has shown that the framework is being followed. We intend to implement the January Agreement within the framework of the economy and framework, as the agreement also shows. When the individual proposals are subsequently put forward in a bill, their public financial impact will be reported as usual.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-380	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. There is no doubt that Magdalena Andersson is one of Social Democracy's and perhaps Sweden's most polished party tactics. This has not least proved to be in the light of the developments we have had in Swedish politics, where the Social Democracy, after trying hard to get the Center Party out of parliament at previous elections, has had as its main ambition that the former Alliance would crack. They wanted to repeat what they did in the 1990s, when they managed to tie the Center Party to the left in Swedish politics. Magdalena Andersson has now repeated that achievement, and the Center Party is back on the left side in Swedish politics with the January agreement that has been concluded between the parties. Magdalena Andersson has thus been very successful as a party tactician. However, the question is whether Magdalena Andersson with the January agreement is successful as Minister of Finance with responsibility for Sweden. That is why I have made this interpellation, in which I have tried to clarify how the Minister of Finance views the effects of the policies agreed between the left parties which now form the basis of government in this House. There is no answer from Magdalena Andersson, but the answer is simply: we will have to come back to that. For those who listen to the political debate and try to understand how Sweden is currently being managed, this is, I would say, an alarming and perhaps also surprising answer. There is a broad and very legitimate expectation among Sweden's citizens that politicians should actually know what they are doing and have an idea of what they are doing to lead to. Here we now have a Minister of Finance who answers that we will have to come back to that. This is worrying, not least on a day like this which is dark for finance ministers in all countries. Statistics Sweden has presented figures that one in four municipalities – it is in municipalities that welfare funding takes place – has declined in 2018. SCB has also presented figures that Swedish companies' order intake decreased sharply during the month of January. That is to say, we already have problems in financing welfare management with the boom that has prevailed and to some extent still exists. Now the figures are downwards in the economic cycle; this in a situation where one in four municipalities has already gone backwards. It therefore seems difficult to believe that the Minister for Finance will sort out the overall public finances well in the future. Already in the previous year, strong criticism came from, for example, the Konjunkturinstitutet that the budget was heavily expansionary in the wrong situation. Every fourth municipality goes backwards. Now the Minister for Finance is meeting down figures for industry, and it is unclear how Sweden will finance its welfare commitment in the future. Madam President, I would like Basically, a strong public economy can only be achieved through strong employment growth. It is around the job issue in this interpellation essentially circles. After all, the Government had the ambition that Sweden would have Europe's lowest unemployment. When Magdalena Andersson took office, we were the 12th best. Today, we're the 19th best. Magdalena Andersson is the worst in the EU at work. No other country has lost as much when it comes to jobs and unemployment as Sweden. This is very worrying for public finances.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-388	Madam President, I would like It could also be said that Magdalena Andersson is best at jobs in Europe because we have the highest employment rate ever measured in an EU country. We also have the lowest proportion of people living on transfers and benefits since the 1980s. We also have the lowest public debt since 1977. Thus, too, the impressions of bourgeois governments on the national debt are finally wiped out. Swedish history shows a clear pattern: bourgeois governments leave huge deficits in public finances, then social democratic finance ministers come and clean up. This has been done three times out of three possible in modern Swedish economic-political history. The January Agreement is a comprehensive programme that covers a wide range of issues. Our assessment is that the agreement falls within the scope of reform that exists during the term of office. It is also the view of the President-in-Office of the Council that it does. But, of course, in every budget that we go forward with, we will ensure that the reforms that we are implementing are also in line with the fiscal framework that we have agreed in Parliament. Of course we should follow the framework. Of course, it remains to be seen whether the moderate and Christian Democratic budget motion also remains within the framework. Of course, I will continue in the same way as over the last four years, namely to ensure that we are in order in public finances and that employment is rising.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-391	Madam President, I would like When Magdalena Andersson took office as Minister of Finance, Sweden was the 12th best in Europe at the jobs. Now she is still Minister of Finance, but Sweden is only 19th best at jobs. It is difficult to understand how Magdalena Andersson can see it as a success that during her time as Minister of Finance, Sweden has lost seven investments in Europe when it comes to jobs. How can it be a success that Sweden has lost seven investments in the EU when it comes to jobs? Let me ask you a straight question, Magdalena Andersson. Sweden is a large country with great distances where we depend on jobs to grow throughout the country, so that all of Sweden can live. But how will Magdalena Andersson get the jobs to be more around the country when you make it harder and harder to get together life, entrepreneurship and jobs outside the big cities? How are the jobs going to be more at home in Kalmar, from which I come, in Kalix or Växjö when the petrol taxes are going to be increased, when we are going to have high taxes on flying and when we are going to introduce kilometre taxes? How can jobs grow around Sweden when the Finance Minister so clearly says that the tax burden of living and working around the country should be pushed up? How should anyone dare to invest, want to start a business and feel that there I will produce, and here I will hire, when the promise from Stockholm about increased tax burdens is so clear? Magdalena Andersson, in her large office here in central Stockholm, addresses people around Sweden and says: Those of you who live outside the big cities should receive higher taxes. That is what is written in the January Agreement. How will this increase the number of jobs? What is the Finance Minister's assessment of employment with this type of tax increase policy for jobs outside big cities? How can the whole of Sweden live when the tax burden is going up so much at a distance, for those who need to use the car and who need to take the flight to be able to run a business and to be able to work? The Minister of Finance has no answers here. Madam President, I would like I do not understand that as responsible politicians, as a finance minister should be, they have signed an agreement on how Swedish economic policy should be conducted without having done an analysis, an assessment, of how it affects jobs and how it affects the ability to run companies. The Minister of Finance just stood in the speaker's chair and said: we will have to come back to such an assessment. But, Magdalena Andersson, shouldn't that assessment have been made before you signed the agreement?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-398	Madam President, I would like Let me just say quietly that when Niklas Wykman was sitting in a large office at the Ministry of Finance, the tax on petrol was increased. During this term of office, we will carry out a tax exchange. This means that some taxes will be increased. But it also means that taxes will be reduced. We are doing this because we know that if we do not act now, we will add to the climate change that will make our children and grandchildren have a completely different life than we have. Our children and grandchildren know this. They're on strike now. They're on a school strike to get us politicians to take climate change seriously. It's our generation's biggest task. We all have the facts. We know what's going on. We have to act. But precisely because this is so important, we must do this with great care and awareness that we who live in Sweden live under different conditions. It looks different in different parts of the country. Precisely because I think this is so important, I come in this tax exchange and in the work that we are doing to ensure that the whole country has the opportunity to participate in this transition. It should not be a change for some rich Stockholmers, but it should be a change that everyone can be a part of. That is why, when we carry out this tax exchange but also in other policies, we will ensure that the whole country can participate. For example, it may be a matter of reviewing the travel allowances so that they work better for people who are unable to use public transport than they do today. Of course, there are also many other possibilities. It is also important to point out that this is a shift. We raise taxes on certain things but lower it on others. Of course, we will do so in such a way that we will carefully analyse the effect of the precise measures that we will take. However, this is a framework agreement. We will do in the usual order as we have done with each budget and as did the Moderates at the time when they were in government. The public financial impact will be described for the individual proposals, and we will then make an overall assessment of the employment effects of the budget proposal.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-404	Madam President, I would like When Magdalena Andersson took office as Minister of Finance, Sweden was the 12th best in Europe at the jobs. Magdalena Andersson has now been Minister of Finance for about five years, and Sweden has gone down to 19th place. Magdalena Andersson has thus ensured that Sweden has lost not one, not two, not three, not four, not five and not six, but seven placements in terms of jobs in Europe. It is a severe understatement to a Minister of Finance. Magdalena Andersson has now signed an agreement, and she has not counted on the employment effects of the policy in the agreement. What's gonna happen to the jobs? The Minister of Finance has no answer. How can jobs grow to around Sweden, a country with great distances, when air taxes are increased, when kilometer taxes are introduced and when fuel taxes are raised? It becomes so expensive to refuel that an ordinary family may refrain from having their children in soccer practice or hockey practice. It can be so expensive to refuel that going to work is simply not profitable. How can Sweden live when reducing income taxes in Stockholm but raising fuel taxes around Sweden? How is it going to be a safe country, where we feel connected and where we feel belonging? How should people and entrepreneurs want to invest, not only in the cities but throughout Sweden, so that all people who want and can work will have a job to go to? How can you get full employment with ever higher taxes? Madam President, I would like It is irresponsible that a finance minister has signed an agreement without counting on jobs.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-409	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman is faltering. He seems to know exactly what the tax exchange should look like, even though he doesn't know it at all. It has not yet been decided. Niklas Wykman only dreams of large tax increases but completely forgets the major tax cuts. This should be a cost-neutral reform. We're going to raise taxes, but we're also going to lower taxes. How do we create jobs across the country? Yes, what is it that companies say they miss when we're out talking to them? Well, they lack skilled labour-- it's never solved by the Moderate tax cuts. They lack infrastructure – there is nothing to be solved by Moderate tax cuts. We need to ensure that we carry out important and comprehensive investments in education and infrastructure in order for there to be entrepreneurship across the country. It is something that the previous government was working on, and it is something that this government will continue to work on. It is not something that the Moderates' tax cuts will ever solve. During this term of office, the government has reduced unemployment. Unemployment has fallen. Youth unemployment has fallen. Long-term unemployment has fallen. The establishment time of new arrivals has been halved. Labour supply has grown recordably, as has employment. There are now 300 000 more people going to work. We have the highest employment rate ever measured in any EU country. I won't say I'm happy because I want more people to work. But to describe it as a failure, it is possibly Niklas Wykman who does. However, when I am down in Brussels and meet my colleagues, they point to the fact that we have the highest employment rate in Europe. And the employment rate of women, not least, is record high.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-414	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked the Minister for Infrastructure what the Government's strategy is to abolish the tax exemption on aviation fuel and whether the Minister for Infrastructure intends to work towards the government lifting the tax exemption on aviation fuel to ICAO's forthcoming ministerial meetings and to the General Assembly in September. The interpellation has been handed over to me. A reasonable way to price the climate impact of aviation is to tax aviation fuel. The January agreement states that Sweden will take the lead shirt to renegotiate the international agreements and conventions that put an end to the taxation of fossil aviation fuel. An analysis is currently ongoing within the Government Office on how this can best be done. It is too early at this point to comment on when and in which forum it is most appropriate to raise the issue, but the forums mentioned by Jens Holm may be relevant. Opening the debate on how to make taxation of aviation fuel possible is the right way forward.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-418	Madam President, I would like I listened earlier to the Minister for Finance when she debated in this House. On the issue of climate change, the Minister of Finance said that our school children are on school strike because they demand that we adults take our responsibility. The Minister of Finance also said that it is our generation's biggest task to solve the climate issue and hand over a planet to our children and grandchildren that they can live good lives on. I fully agree with the words of the Minister for Finance from the previous debate in this House. Aviation emissions are an area that is very problematic from a climate perspective. We know that aviation emissions have more than doubled over the last 20 years and can increase by another 300 – 700% by 2050 if nothing is done. We in Sweden fly several times more than the world average, and if you include both domestic and international flights, the total emissions are about 10 million tonnes in Sweden – as much as our 5 million private cars account for. This does not hold from a climate perspective. One problem with us flying so much is that aviation does not assume its full climate responsibility. It is very cheap to fly, and the main reason why it is so cheap is that the flight is subsidised by our tax money. For example, the airline industry does not pay taxes on the fuel used, unlike other modes of transport that pay taxes on the fuel or electricity and energy used. The EU Environment Agency has stated that only this fuel tax exemption represents a loss of SEK 200 – 300 billion each year. Every year, therefore, we subsidise flights in the EU with SEK 200 – 300 billion. In Sweden it is about a subsidy of approximately SEK 8 1⁄2 billion. However, this can be changed. That aviation has a tax exemption for its fuel is regulated by the International Aviation Organisation ICAO. In 1944 it adopted the so-called Chicago Convention, which states that countries must not levy any tax on fuel for flights between countries. This is exactly where I want to hear that the government has a strategy for removing this tax exemption. It's urgent! If the government is to change anything during this term of office, it is this year that a strategy must be presented. In April the ICAO has a new Council meeting, and between 24 September and 4 October it is time for the General Assembly. The General Assembly is not held every year, and it is at the General Assembly, Magdalena Andersson, that Sweden can work for a change to the Chicago Convention, which means that today flights do not pay taxes on the fuel used. A two-thirds majority is required, so unanimity is not required. But if Sweden is going to be able to gather it is time to start acting. That is why I am disappointed with the brief reply from the Minister for Finance, Madam President. The Minister of Finance says that the issue is still being analysed and that we cannot now say when we have a strategy to abolish aviation tax subsidies. When will this strategy and in what forum? Is it at the ICAO General Assembly this autumn that you will be running this, Magdalena Andersson?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-428	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate Jens Holm's commitment to this issue, a commitment that I fully share. It is quite unreasonable that we have it in the world today that the mode of transport that is the worst for the climate is what we cannot levy fuel taxes on. It is completely unreasonable and something that we really need to change. That is why I think it is so good that there is such clear and good support in the Riksdag for Sweden to run that line. On the one hand, we have the January Agreement, and on the other hand it is clear that the Left Party is behind this part of the January Agreement, which means that we have a satisfactory majority in the Swedish Parliament in order for Sweden to be able to pursue the issue. We know, of course, that if we are to tackle climate problems, we must also ensure that we have reasonable instruments so that consumers can make balanced choices. In fact, at present, we are completely wrong about consumers when we charge climate taxes on other modes of transport but not on what is worst for the climate. So this is an issue that we will pursue strongly. A strategy for exactly when, where and at which meetings we believe this will be best addressed at the moment. It is not done at the Ministry of Finance, it is done by those who are at ICAO meetings. But as soon as the strategy is complete, Sweden will of course start working to get as many as possible to support the proposal. We will come back to exactly at which meetings this will take place.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-432	Madam President, I would like I have here in my hand 720 kroner. That is the sum that the Minister for Finance, me and all the other Swedes – infants, pensioners, anyone – are funding the flight in the form of a tax subsidy that means that the aircraft does not pay taxes on the fuel used in both national and international flights. And this is just the tax subsidy on the propellant. Added to this are additional subsidies that the aviation industry receives both in Sweden and internationally. Apart from the fact that this is a climate issue, it is also a financial issue. This is, of course, money that could be used, for example, to renovate the railways, to ensure that we have good night trains to the continent, to lower the prices of the train, to get better public transport throughout the country and so on. But if we are to achieve this, we must remove this tax exemption, and I still think, Madam President, that it does not seem entirely convincing to hear the Minister for Finance when she says that we are continuing to analyse internally what kind of strategy we should have and in what contexts we should pursue this. I think it is good that the Minister for Finance shares the view of problems and, as I understand the Minister for Finance, I want to abolish this subsidy. But if it is to be done, Magdalena Andersson, it is this autumn at the ICAO General Assembly that the battle stands. It is then that Sweden has the opportunity to achieve a two-thirds majority to amend Article 24 which says that we must not levy any tax on the fuel used by aviation. It is therefore in September and early October that the General Assembly meeting will take place. If the government is to continue to analyse a strategy and decide in which forums to pursue this issue, I am really concerned. For how long? I think you'll lose the chance to push this issue. The strategy should, of course, have been completed here and now. First, it is a question of gaining a great deal of trust within the European Union. There are 28 votes, or 27 if the UK leaves the EU. Then it is a question of building a great deal of confidence around the world in order to change the ICAO regulatory framework. I think that is quite possible, because the Chicago Convention came about shortly after World War II. Then there was no Paris agreement and no climate awareness. Now everyone understands the bizarre fact that aviation does not pay taxes on the fuel used. I want to give the Minister of Finance one more chance to be a little clearer. When will we see a clear and clear strategy for how Sweden will put power behind the words and work internationally to remove the tax exemption for aviation as soon as possible? Is it at the ICAO General Assembly this autumn that Sweden intends to pursue this issue? I would also like to know whether this issue will be pursued within the European Union. After all, the EU has an energy tax directive which says about the same thing as the ICAO regulations, namely that it must not levy taxes on flights. That directive must also be amended. Then we need a clear strategy. It should have been finished by now.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-440	Madam President, I would like The need to change the Energy Taxation Directive is something that Sweden is running anyway, because it is old and outdated and needs to be modernised on the basis of the conditions that we have today. Just as Jens Holm says, the rule that exists in ICAO is from a completely different time, long before we knew the climate change that we are seeing today. With the developments that we see, where climate change seems to have a faster and greater impact than we might have feared, it is of course urgent to implement this type of change. Jens Holm and the government have exactly the same view on the issue, namely that this is a change that must be made. Of course, we want to see this as soon as possible, but, as Jens Holm points out, there are many countries that need convincing. Of course, there is also a need to think about the best way to work. It is good to have a well-thought-out strategy for achieving the greatest success, and one is currently being developed. I fully share Jens Holm's view that this is urgent. It may well be that it is concluded that this autumn's meeting is an appropriate time. This is exactly what they are working on now, in order to achieve success. But there is really no reason to draw this on a long bench. Here we need to move forward, because there are many countries that we need to convince. However, something that is already good here and now is that we can ensure that the aviation tax that the previous government, together with the Left Party, introduced in Sweden is not phased out in the way proposed in the Budget Decisions of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats in the Riksdag. It is an important way forward. Next week, air tax will also be discussed at the meeting of Finance Ministers in Brussels. Things happen in that part too. Of course, the best thing would be for the ICAO rules to be changed as quickly as possible.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-444	Madam President, I would like I welcome the government's efforts to reform the Energy Taxation Directive, which the EU has. It's old-fashioned, just like the Minister of Finance says. It is not adapted to the challenges of climate change. It is good that the government is pushing these issues and that it is discussing the issue of air taxation. It's good that the airline tax is saved. As a contribution, I can say to the Minister for Finance that the Dutch Government is organising a seminar in June on aviation emissions and possibilities for taxation and removal of the tax exemption for aviation fuel, if I have not misunderstood it. It is important that Sweden joins a large and heavy delegation at that conference. I would like confirmation from the Minister for Finance. The Minister of Finance says that the government is working on developing a strategy for abolishing the tax exemption for aviation. Will we have such a strategy presented by the government, and will it be presented in the near future? I think it would be very important to have a specific message about this. If it is not at the ICAO General Assembly in the autumn that this reform proposal is expected to be implemented, I do not know what context the government might think might be more appropriate. But the Minister of Finance will answer that question. As the Minister for Finance said earlier, climate change is our generation's biggest task. We must ensure that the climate issue is included in all the decisions we politicians make. It is important not least to ensure that aviation assumes its climate responsibility and that we fly less and transport in a more sustainable way. A removal of the tax subsidy is a very important part of it.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-449	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the interpellation and for the interpellation debate. It feels very good that there is such broad support in the Swedish parliament that we need to take further action to address the climate challenges. There is a broad parliamentary majority for a completely different policy than that which the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats pushed through in their budget decision last autumn and which involves a veritable slaughter of the environmental budget. It is a very old-fashioned and retrospecting policy. It is therefore important that there is a majority in Parliament who wants to do something else, namely take responsibility for the climate here and now, not least for the sake of future generations. In order for it to succeed, it is important that we ensure a climate change transition that it is possible for the whole of society to participate in, regardless of what income you have and where in the country you live. We are going to make a change that everyone can be involved in. An important part is, of course, that we will have a more reasonable taxation of aviation fuel and that the subsidy that exists today will not exist in the future. But it requires changes in international regulations, and that is something that this government will work for. Exactly how to do it in the best way we work here and now. Of course, we will then be able to show what action we are taking and how this will become clear.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-451	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell has asked me whether I intend to implement the Riksdag's decision on a special salary investment for the Swedish police and how I intend to ensure that the special wage investment leads to the increased wages that have been the intention of the initiative. In the budget decided for 2019, SEK 360 million was allocated to the police for improved conditions. As Johan Forssell has no doubt stated, the appropriations allocated by the Politigheten for 2019 have been increased in accordance with the budget decided by the Riksdag. It is also widely known that the delegation of employees' working conditions within the state is far-reaching. There has been a consensus in Parliament on this principle since the mid-1990s. Consequently, the report of the Committee on Justice on Category 4 Justice states that the funds are to be allocated by the Police Authority, which is to consult interested parties within the Police Authority. The government is determined to pursue the major resource effort and development of the Police Authority. Attractiveness in the police profession will be strengthened. In addition to more resources, the Police Authority must also receive support from other authorities in, for example, the work on our vulnerable areas as well as more effective law enforcement legislation. I am convinced that the parties can manage the increased resources given to the Police Authority to enable the organisation to develop wages and other conditions in negotiations with the workers' organisations. There is ongoing work within the Police Authority together with all employee organisations to make the agency even more attractive as an employer. This is important in order to get fewer people to quit their employment and to get more suitable applicants. I will, of course, follow up how the Police Authority uses its appropriations. I will also follow up the agency's work to increase the attractiveness as an employer. I and the government are acting forcefully on several fronts, but, as the Riksdag points out, the process of wage formation is to be conducted by the Police Authority in consultation with the relevant social partners.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-457	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have written the interpellation in the light of the fact that we have a difficult situation in Sweden in terms of security and perhaps above all the growing insecurity. More and more people in our amazing country feel insecure when they walk home from the bus, when they go to school or are at school or when they are at work. We saw last year, unfortunately, how the shootings in Sweden broke record. Where the rule of law loses control, insecurity is spreading. This government is now in its fifth year. During the years of government power, taxes have been increased by SEK 60 billion. Nevertheless, we can see that the number of police officers is the same today as when the government took office. I'll say something positive about the interpellation response. The government has set up a laudable ambition to increase the number of police officers. It's necessary. It is quite obvious no matter where you travel anywhere in Sweden, no matter what police officers you meet and any people who are employed in social services. They also bear witness to this. There are very great needs linked to growing insecurity, but not least because we have seen a very strong increase in population in recent years. Everything else would have been strange. But as with so many other things that are important, it is also difficult. The hard part here isn't to say you should have more cops. That is to ensure that this is also the case. Unfortunately, there is much to indicate that what we are seeing right now is something of a leaking bucket. It is gratifying that more and more people want to become police officers. Yet, too many choose to leave the important profession prematurely. In January of this year, 48 police officers left for reasons other than retiring. There were 48 of them. Half of them were under 40 years of age. They should have many successful and important years ahead of them in the police profession but instead choose to do something else in life. It is clear that society is changing. You may not go out with the gold bell after working 35 years. But this is simply too bad figures. That's not good. It will create huge problems in order to achieve the ambition we have for more police officers. Madam President, I would like Money doesn't mean everything. But I think that too many people stand and make their career choices is not insignificant what they actually get in their wallets every month. This is how the Minister knows very well that only last autumn the Parliament decided in the budget to implement a special targeted wage investment for the country's police officers. It's not a matter of pennies. On average, this would mean an increase of SEK 3 000 per police officer per month. As I said, it will not solve all the problems. But it will be important for them not to go away from the police profession, but to stay for a few extra years. I'm a little concerned when I read the interpellation response. The question is not whether the police authorities have received this money or not, but will the money go to what was intended, wages, or something else? I wonder whether Mikael Damberg can guarantee that the funds allocated by Parliament will really go to what was intended, to raise police salaries, and nothing else.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-467	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Forssell, for the interpellation! They provide an opportunity to sort out some of the uncertainties that have been created. In the debate, it has been suggested that the government is in some way delaying, making it difficult or not paying out money in accordance with Parliament's decision. That is not the case. The money decided by the Riksdag has already been paid to the Police Authority. This is exactly what Johan Forssell says. These are strong initiatives we are making this year and the coming years at the Police Authority. The ambition is to make the police organization grow both in number and in attractiveness. It's still a good thing. Sometimes the political debate becomes very polarising. But there is also great value in the fact that a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament wants to make strong efforts on the police and will implement what also enables better conditions. Not only does the government have that ambition. We have also made an agreement in 73 points where the attractiveness of police workers is an important part of the agreement. It will be important work in the coming years. It becomes easy to question whether I or the government can guarantee how a certain wage formation should be done. There you have to be a little careful as a minister if you do not want to violate principle one on how wage formation is done. It's a little implied. The question has to be asked whether the Moderates have abandoned the attitude that Parliament has had for a very long time since the 1990s that the parties are conducting the wage formation process. We should not believe that the Riksdag or, for that matter, the government is best at deciding for such a complex organisation as the Police Authority. When it is to grow with 10 000 more police workers and better conditions, it is incredibly important that the agency has the opportunity to determine in negotiations with the parties how the attractiveness is best improved. It is the one who has control over the local conditions. It's not just about wages. It is conditions, holidays, working hours and many issues that come into the work to make the police profession more attractive. I'm gonna stick my chin out here. You can choose to publicly evaluate the government's efforts during these five years for police salaries. You can compare with the first five years with the previous bourgeois government for police wages. One can compare with the last five years under the bourgeois government with the first five years for us. I'd be happy to challenge the Moderates. During the eight years we have been in office next time when we come to elections, police salaries will have increased considerably in Sweden because the attractiveness must be improved in the Police Authority in order for it to be an attractive profession and for us to reach the target of 10 000 more police employees. There will be public statistics where you can follow if police salaries have gone up or have gone down and if they have increased more during our time or in the past. Rather than suspecting and constantly trying to argue that the other side is not doing what they say. We say that we should increase attractiveness and improve conditions. It would probably be better for the Police Authority that there is a consensus in this Chamber on the direction and that we allow both employee organisations and employers' organisations in the state's largest authority to set salaries in Sweden. I hope that Johan Forssell will stand by what Parliament has said about this.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-480	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that the Minister for the Interior has heard of the saying that it is difficult to sit on two chairs at the same time. That is what we just saw in the Minister's speech here and now. On the one hand, the policy is clearly not to interfere with and have any views whatsoever on how wage formation is done or the funds allocated to the agency. It was the bottom line here. On the other hand, only a few seconds later, it is apparently the government's credit that police salaries have increased in recent years. I think the Minister will have to fill in his answer. It's not about me, Mikael Damberg. It doesn't. It's not about the Moderates or the government either. It's about our cops. It is a group that performs very important tasks on a daily basis. I would say that it is underpaid linked to the work, the responsibility and the risks it often takes. The Parliament adopted a budget last autumn where a majority of the Members of the House said: This money should go to police salaries and nothing else. When it comes to the exact distribution of this, who should have what, if it should be based on how many years you have been in the profession, on geography or in position and competence, it is of course something that we, Members of Parliament, or for that matter Minister of State in the Swedish Government, should not have any views on. But we're earmarking the money just for wages. This is an important difference, and I am absolutely convinced that the Minister actually understands this. That is what the question is about. As long as the funds are not earmarked, they can go to salaries or to equipment, premises or whatever it may be. This is where the shoe squeezes, because as long as Mikael Damberg and the government do not point and say that the money should go to wages, there is the risk that they will go to something else. I think that would be very sad, not only because it would challenge the decision that the Riksdag has taken – it is really a petitess in this context – but because it would mean that thousands of police officers around Sweden do not get the salary increase that the Riksdag has decided on and that I think they should have. They deserve it. I would like to ask my question once again to the Minister for Home Affairs: can Mikael Damberg guarantee that the money goes to precisely what Parliament has decided – to salaries for our police and not to anything else in the Police Authority? That is exactly what this debate is about. This could, for example, require the clarification of such a thing in a regulatory letter. The government can make decisions on this and govern the framework for its authorities. Then negotiating parties can do the rest. But that is exactly what needs to be done if the government now thinks that our police should get the increase in wages that they are not only entitled to and deserve, but that the Riksdag has also decided. That is my question to Mikael Damberg.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-489	Madam President, I would like It is important to listen to what the interpellier says because on the one hand he says that you promise a certain amount in wage increases, on the other hand that the parties will negotiate who will get the salary increase and how much it will be. It doesn't really make sense. I think it is a good thing that the progress of the debate is towards the fact that it is funds that go to the authority and that it is the parties that negotiate the terms and conditions. Then we have come a long way, because then you defend the principle that has applied to how to work with authorities and what responsibility the parties have to pay. It'll be tricky if you do things differently. Johan Forssell would like to skip this, but it can be noted that grants to the agency play a major role in wage development. For the first five years of a Social Democratic-led government, police wages have on average increased by $3,700, while in the past they increased at a slower pace. I think it is good that police wages are now increasing, and they are because we are giving the police authorities more resources. Otherwise, there is no way either to raise wages or to work with other conditions for the police. I also think it is a good thing that this debate has made it clear what applies after the uncertainty that arose not least after the Moderates' actions that there was some kind of will on the part of the government to hold back the money that Parliament has decided on. We have now made it clear that the money has gone to the agency and that it is the agency that will negotiate wage developments. I think that's a good principle. I will continue to fight for better conditions for the police so that they get better opportunities but also so that they can grow as an organisation. I believe that this is a crucial issue for the Police Authority if it is to succeed in the mission of the 10 000 more employees. If you do not make the police profession attractive, not enough qualified people will apply for police training. It may also be that we do not have as positive a development as we need from the Police Authority as regards defection, recruitment and re-recruitment. Both I and the parties that have been involved in the cooperation that we sometimes call YES, on the 73-point programme, agree that we should improve conditions. However, it is also in accordance with the Riksdag's decision that it is the parties who will determine the exact distribution of the appropriations received to develop salaries and conditions. It would be great if we could agree on this in the Swedish Parliament.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-495	Madam President, I would like The problem with the debate is not that Mikael Damberg does not answer questions. The problem is that he answers questions that no one asks. But the question that the interpellation is about and the question that the country's police are asking is this: can the Minister of the Interior guarantee that the money that Parliament has allocated will go to salaries and nothing else? On this issue, the Minister, it is not enough to wiggle or to talk about what has happened under previous governments. It's about here and now, and it's about the future. As long as the government does not assume its responsibilities, dares to point with all its hand and dare to bring this into, for example, a letter of regulation, there is the very great and obvious risk that the money will go to something else. That is what the debate is about, and that is the issue that Mikael Damberg does not really seem to have realised or want to talk about. But that's what it's all about right now. It is not about what has been done before. Is the money going to pay? Or should they go to vehicles, to premises, to bills or whatever? That's what it's all about. It is great that the new minister has high ambitions for the important police profession. But again, it is not just about saying the right things or having the will. You also have to do the right things. The question I have now asked three times plus once in the interpellation is whether Mikael Damberg can guarantee that it will be the decision that the Riksdag has made so that the funds go to the police's wages and nothing else. I don't seem to get an answer, and I can live with it. But I wonder what the country's police say if, unfortunately, it is still as it appears: that one of the new Minister of Interior's first decisions is not to deliver the increased police salaries that Parliament has decided on. I'm sorry about that.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-499	Madam President, I would like I can only say that during the first five years of government, police salaries have increased by an average of SEK 3 700. That is much more than previous years. It is a conscious policy to give the Police Authority more resources so that you can work with wage developments and make the profession attractive. We will continue these efforts in accordance with Parliament's decision to increase the attractiveness of the police profession. But Johan Forssell pretends that one has promised a certain professional category, all police officers, a certain amount of money. He stands here and says this even though he knows that negotiations must take place between the parties and that police officers not only work in the Police Authority but also in the Swedish Economic Crime Authority and Säpo. He knows that there is the same collective agreement and that conditions and questions about wages and working hours are also linked to the issue of wages. Then we are terribly close to a situation where the government and parliament go in and pay salaries in Sweden. Then we are violating a principle that has been in force in Sweden since the 90s, where I have understood that there has been a large and broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we do not do so. We provide resources, we ensure that the authorities can work on these issues and we follow up that they also do so in accordance with the intentions that exist. It is also very clear in the interpellation response that the question of conditions for employees is one of the issues that I intend to follow up with the Police Authority. I can guarantee Johan Forssell that this government will continue to invest in the Police Authority and to provide better conditions for both wages and conditions. So far, the first five years when we have had responsibility, wage developments have been better than in the years when the Moderates had responsibility in the government. I think we will continue to do so. But please evaluate me when it comes to this and see after eight years whether wage developments have been better during our years or whether it was better before!
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-505	Madam President, I would like Roland Utbolt has asked me how I intend to ensure that the intentions of the new gaming team are fulfilled. Since 1 January 2019, anyone offering money games or a value in money on the Swedish gaming market must have a Swedish gaming license and comply with Swedish gaming legislation. The main purpose of implementing the reform is to take back control of the Swedish gaming market. It is an important prerequisite for combating gambling abuse and achieving a high level of consumer protection. Excessive gambling can ruin people's lives, and measures to protect against gambling abuse are important. The moderation requirements and other restrictions on gambling advertising shall be complied with. In connection with the reform, the Government commissioned Statskontoret to follow up and evaluate the re-regulation of the gaming market( Fi2018/01523/ OU). The Agency will report annually over four years on the impact of the reregulation in nine areas, including consumer protection, public health and privacy. Special investigator Anna-Lena Sö renson has been commissioned ( Dir. 2018:47) to propose measures to maintain a well-functioning gambling market. The investigator may also propose other measures necessary to strengthen the regulation of the gambling market. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Gaming Authority and the Swedish Consumer Agency to report by 1 September 2019 what measures the authorities have taken to ensure that licence holders comply with the Gaming Act. The authorities shall also report on the effects of the measures, for example in the form of corrections. I will monitor developments closely and then consider whether further action is needed.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-510	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Public Health Agency is talking about some 170 000 people who have gambling problems in our country. 82,000 children are affected, and many loved ones. One in five people in this country says they have someone around them who has gambling problems. It should be said that gambling is a pleasure for the vast majority. However, that is not what we are talking about today; what we are debating in this interpellation debate is the back of gambling and a very aggressive marketing that ultimately affects children. The player himself has a responsibility, but the gaming companies have a crucial responsibility. The Minister has the ultimate political responsibility, and this is what the Minister said on 7 June last year, the same day that the decision on the new gaming licensing system was made in the Swedish parliament: That will be the effect of the decision taken today. The effect of the decision is also that we ensure that we do what we can to protect Swedish consumers in one of the most risky markets available, namely the gambling market. ..................................................... I do not doubt the good intentions and good will of the Minister. Recently, the minister called the industry's actors to a meeting at the Ministry of Finance. The Minister was not satisfied with how the gaming companies have interpreted the Moderate Marketing Act, that high standards of moderation should apply in the marketing of games. The Minister says in his interpellation response: .. Moderateness may be a virtue, but it is a relative concept. It is also this concept that I have a little bit taken up when I have followed the development of the gaming market and the new licensing system that we have developed. I was on the investigation team, and I am pleased with the contacts that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister had with us in the opposition during the process. But there are also many of us who want to know what happened at the meeting. How did the organisations receive the criticism from the Minister? What was the result of the meeting? Above all, what is the Minister's view on the situation at the moment?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-517	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Roland very much for his commitment to this issue, for the cooperation in connection with the re-regulation of the gambling market during the last parliamentary term and also for the follow-up to this with this debate. I am delighted to see that this type of commitment is among members of various party affiliations here in Parliament. Then I know that we in the government and parliament will be able to continue working together to ensure that we protect Swedish consumers. If there are any gaming companies out there who believe that they can continue to act in a way that puts consumers at risk of serious danger, they should know that the government and parliament in that case will act. As Roland Utbolt said, I have had a meeting with representatives of the gaming companies that have received a licence to operate in the Swedish gaming market. My message to them was simple: Follow the Swedish law! It is Swedish law and not Maltese law that applies from 1 January. This law is intended to protect consumers. This requires, among other things, that you have moderate marketing regarding the content of marketing. But if you want to be a sustainable industry that through our MPs has the confidence of the Swedish people to conduct legal activities in Sweden, you must also take responsibility and work with self-regulation. This means that you have to address the issues relating to the design and aggressiveness of gambling advertising. As far as the amount and aggressiveness of gambling advertising is concerned, it is difficult to say that we have a situation where we can be satisfied. We cannot protect our consumers at this stage. I gave the gambling industry until 31 March a mandate to come back with self-regulation which represents a noticeable change. If the gambling industry does not come back with such a change that protects consumers and that reduces the aggressiveness and quantity of gambling advertising, the government will act, along with this House, to ensure that we have legislation that protects our consumers also in relation to gambling advertising. At this point, I'm not ruling out any options. I would like to emphasise that: no alternatives. We are prepared to take the necessary measures to protect Swedish consumers. In parallel, we have also given the two supervisory authorities the task of prioritising supervision so that we get practice on the concept of moderate marketing. We will, through courts and supervisory authorities, set the framework that will apply to the Swedish gaming market in accordance with the legislation and the will of the Riksdag. However, I take the view that more will be needed. Either the industry chooses to take responsibility and show that they are prepared to be a sustainable industry and self-regulation, or the government and parliament will have to act with binding legislation. But one thing is certain: we will never let Swedish consumers down in the gambling market. We have regained control after two decades of the Wild West in the gaming market. We did this together with this House, and we shall continue to work together to protect consumers.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-524	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Shekarabi for his reply. Every word the Minister says here obliges. If what the Minister is now describing becomes a reality, I am the one who will be most happy in this House. I have seen some of the back pages on the gaming companies' receiving page or customer page. It's not a funny sight and it's not nice stories you hear from people who have been affected. What I think is an important expression here and which I may not think we are 100% clear about is the fact that high standards of moderation should apply to the marketing of games. Moderateness is a rather relative concept. It may be that they don't really care but go on as they have since 1 January. I don't think there's been much difference in marketing with before. This is important, and I hope that the Minister will in some way be able to develop how to establish an expression such as that of moderation and put some sort of evaluation in the expression. Gambling companies' investment in advertising has nearly doubled in the last two years. It may be a personal reaction, but the messages seem to be becoming more and more provocative, contrary to the purpose of the law. The gaming companies spent SEK 7.4 billion on gambling advertising in Sweden in 2018, and nothing indicates, at least right now, that this is decreasing. It is enough that you take the subway in the morning here in Stockholm or turn on the TV and you get to see a lot of gambling advertising. Everyone knows about this, I think, and many people think it's a huge problem around the cabins. 中 Quit your job – buy a ticket! That's what it says in an advertisement. There's another one that says, "You don't have to get used to it. And then there's a picture of a person who dips a slice of bread in some simple soup in a very spartan kitchen. We know that trying to get people to bet money attracts us in different ways. To suffer from gambling addiction is not a matter of weak character, but a disease linked to the neurotransmitter dopamine for which Arvid Carlsson received the Nobel Prize. As I said, the victims are many. At one end of this, there are entrepreneurs who have discovered this huge market and at the other end there are those who are affected. If it is the case that the gambling companies continue to drum on with aggressive advertising far from the virtue of moderation, how does the Minister view banning advertising as has been done in Italy, for example?
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-531	Madam President, I would like We're not ruling out any options. I made that very clear to the gaming industry in connection with the meeting. I have also made this clear in the communication both before and after the meeting. We do not exclude any alternatives, which means that we do not close the door either to make a constitutional amendment and to introduce the exemption from the freedom of the press regulation that applies to alcohol and tobacco today also in the field of gambling, if necessary. Of course, it's not the first choice for the government. In the first place, we want the industry to take its own responsibility and self-regulate and, secondly, to have legislation if the industry does not accept its responsibility. But we do not even rule out amendments to the Constitution if necessary. We have a duty to our citizens. The Swedish state has regained control of the Swedish gaming market in order for us to protect consumers, and then we cannot have a situation where marketing is used aggressively against consumers and creates social problems. I am very pleased to note this commitment to Parliament. Last parliamentary term our two parties had many different conflicts on fundamental political issues, in fact even on issues of how to govern the country and what government we should have. On this issue, however, we put those conflicts away and shook hands and worked together with all the bourgeois parties and government parties and pushed this legislation through. We will continue to work in this way. I would like to say this in this House so that it is recorded and recorded in the Minutes so that it becomes clear to the citizens that this government will act together with the Parliament. I will be visiting the Committee on Culture shortly to explain how we are working on these issues, and we will have exactly the same kind of close relationship and dialogue as we had during the last parliamentary term with a view to achieving as broad a parliamentary consensus as possible on these issues. This is not a conflict issue in Swedish politics, but we shall stand united in the fight for a healthy gaming market that protects consumers. As regards the content of the requirement for moderate marketing, the legislator gives a lot of examples of what is not moderate marketing in the bill for the re-regulation of the gambling market. It is not in any way an executive list, but, as I said, it is an example of what is not moderate marketing. The aim is to give the law-enforcement authorities a margin of discretion to adapt the development of case law to the development of marketing within the industry. In the end, it is the Swedish Gambling Authority, the Swedish Consumer Agency and our courts that set the limits based on the principles contained in the legislation and in the preparatory work to the legislation. I am convinced, however, that it will not be enough in terms of quantity and aggressiveness, but it will focus on the content itself, that is, the message, in advertising. However, the overall overall picture of marketing is not affected by the need for moderation in the current legislation. It requires either self-regulatory action or a change of law.
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-538	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your continued response. I believe that nothing can be excluded. In Italy, a ban on gambling advertising was introduced after one study saw that 1.3 million people had problems with their gambling and only 12 000 went into some form of treatment, and I believe that this possibility can also be found here if one does not tighten up on the part of the industry. That is how I see it, but the Minister has one speech left and can correct it if that is not the case. When I came here today to this interpellation debate, the motive was not confrontation. I think we've had a good conversation here. I am filled with what the Christian Democrats highlighted particularly during the course of the investigation, and it was that there are so many people who have been in trouble. A lot of people are affected. As I mentioned at the beginning, according to the Public Health Agency, 170 000 are playing too much and about 80 000 children are affected and many, many others close to them. Some make a fortune on the misfortune of others, and it is a great human tragedy that many suffer. I'm filled with it. I must say that I am very grateful for the Minister's reply. The Minutes I will save and follow up. Thank you for the answers to my interpellation!
i-a5dc034673cf5d83-543	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank Roland Utbolt very much for the interpellation, the question, the commitment and the willingness to cooperate on this issue. On this issue, the government, the cooperation parties and also the Christian Democrats and more parties are united in the fight for a healthy gaming market. I'm glad to hear that. Few believed that we would succeed in re-regulating the gambling market. But one of the reasons why it succeeded was not least the commitment of the Christian Democrats and Roland Utbolt. It's worth mentioning and admitting to this. As I said and as Roland Utbolt confirms, we will have the same approach now. We're gonna work together. There is no reason to build a distance between parliament and government. Here we work together, follow developments and take action. What's good, as I also said in the interpellation response, is that we have an ongoing investigation. This gives us the opportunity to allow the investigation to delve into the legal issues that are relevant to the process. Should it be the case that a change of law is required, that process is already under way as we have a current investigation. Within a couple of weeks, we will also receive material from Statskontoret that will give us a clearer picture of how the game reregulation has affected not least the conditions for consumers. Then we can build our conclusions and further action on knowledge. We also know that the Swedish Public Health Agency produces data that will be used by Statskontoret. In fact, we follow the behaviour of gaming consumers on the Swedish market, not least after the re-regulation. We are therefore well placed to do what is our duty: to regain control of the gambling market.
