i-c9531e61da05864a-0	Madam President, I would like The Swedish model includes many pillars to hold up our welfare. One of the largest and most important pillars is social security, with its different content. I intend to focus on health insurance issues, which are dealt with in the exercise-lowering SfU 20 S ocial insurance issues. I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but for the sake of simplicity, I only support reservation 6. Madam President, I would like Health insurance accounts for a large part of our total budget and covers all Swedish citizens. Försäkringskassan is one of Sweden's basic foundations and a guarantee that those who for various reasons are unable to work will receive rehabilitation, financial compensation and support to return to the labour market if possible. It is often said with pride that this is what the Swedish model stands for. When the model is repeatedly criticised, it is no wonder that trust in the authority is being called into question. People's frustration grows when they feel that they are being unfairly treated. Madam President, I would like The Swedish model is about participating in Swedish society in order to also have access to all the benefits included in our social security. In one of our movements, we in the Moderates have stressed the importance of participating in Swedish society in order to gain access to Swedish grants and benefits. You must also have a job or permanent residence in order to have access to all benefits. The Moderates have made it clear that the longer time limit in health insurance should be reintroduced in order to strengthen the incentives to end the reimbursement period before the deadline is reached. The opportunities and driving forces to act in order for the insured person to return to work are strengthened. In our reservation No 6, we ask the government to be informed that incentives for returning to work should be strengthened, not weakened as a result of the removal of the time limit. The motion for a resolution also contains a series of moderate motions with good proposals which we will look at in our further work on developing our health insurance system. Among other things, it is about securing the transfer systems and reviewing the possibility of creating new forms of compensation for the care of parents. We also highlight the great need for a new rehabilitation chain regarding mental illness. Madam President, I would like I have previously highlighted that the Swedish model is a model example. It is therefore serious that severe criticism is directed against the Social Insurance Agency from many quarters. I believe that criticism must be taken seriously and that the minister responsible must take decisive action. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen have made serious criticisms of the Office for the careful handling of confidential data in as many as nine cases. In December 2017, Försäkringskassan introduced new technical procedures to send letters containing attachments. This procedure was introduced to reduce the risk of incorrect attachments being sent with. In spite of this, the JO notes that notifications of errors have continued to be received. This is very serious. Madam President, I would like Last year, more than 600 000 Swedish citizens were on sick leave for various reasons. It is of great importance that we have an authority that is well functioning and has clear governance and management. Minister Annika Strandhäll was notified of the KU, when the Government suddenly fired the then Director General Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. The criticism of the Government by the Constitutional Committee is great. Madam President, I would like In several reports, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined Försäkringskassan's assessment of the decision support and clearly criticises that the decision support that the administrator at Försäkringskassan currently uses is not applied in a legally secure way, as it is open to interpretation and is also not applicable to people with mental illness diagnoses. The Swedish National Audit Office also points to a number of incorrect assessments of co-morbidity. It is not acceptable for us to have an authority that uses decision support that allows for legally insecure decisions. It affects the individual harshly and unjustly and has negative consequences. There are a number of motions in this report that point to uncertain assessments. This is not what the Swedish model stands for. Madam President, I would like As regards the quality of the sick leave process, the report on financial coordination between health care and health insurance has assessed that incentives should be created for county councils and the Social Insurance Agency to make more and earlier efforts to prevent the causes of sick leave and to enable the individual to return to work sustainably after sick leave. Preventive sickness benefit, which is currently used to a limited extent, could increase the incentives for an employee to improve his or her health. That, Madam President, is the correct use of the Swedish model!
i-c9531e61da05864a-13	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are debating the Social Security Committee's report on social security issues. We Swedish democrats, too, of course, support all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I choose to endorse only reservation 14 on the rehabilitation chain. Madam President, I would like We look with great concern at the developments in health insurance during both the previous and the current term of office. We've been touched by a lot of human fates where the sick got caught. We can also see that sick leave due to mental illness has increased over time, especially among women. There are major problems with work environment and sick leave due to, among other things, stress and burn-out in health care professions. This is something we in the Swedish Democrats take very seriously and have invested resources to fix in our budget. Our starting point is that those who are ill should receive the best possible rehabilitation and basic financial security. There must be a proper review of the whole rehabilitation chain. Instead of rigid and de facto assessments, there must be scope for finding flexible solutions based on each individual's situation. For example, we want to change the assessment made in the rehabilitation chain's day 180 and limit the examination of the labour market to being done only in the person's area of competence and not against any fictitious work. Health insurance has gone from being a security for people when illness and injuries make work difficult to become figures and statistics. The government's goal of reaching nine sick days has become a goal that the government has almost gone over corpses – well, at least driven over severely ill people – to achieve. It is a good thing that the government has now corrected the goal of a low and stable level of absence instead of a specific nine-day period. But the question is whether the government is making this change in order for people to really get better treatment and treatment in health insurance or whether it is in order for the government itself to get better treatment and less criticism in the media. I hope that is the first option. Of course, I realize that a high rate of sick leave involves costs. But the solution to that can never be that people should be secured and put on the street as many people today experience it. The solution must be to invest in effective care and rehabilitation. The solution must also be to invest money in positive incentives for people to return to work in very small steps. For example, we propose studies such as rehabilitation with the possibility of keeping their sickness benefit for studies below 50%. We also think that there should be opportunities to try work of 25 per cent with full pay and to increase the possibilities for flexible sick leave and to be able to test new professions. All these proposals are being rejected by the Social Democrats today. But something has to be done and changed. We could read about Carolina in March with a severe cp injury. She was assessed by Arbetsförmedlingen that she could not get a regular job. But she was told by Försäkringskassan that all possibilities for work were not exhausted. This is a typical example of how a person can fall between the chairs because of the lack of coordination between Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. The threshold for receiving sickness benefit, we mean, is far too high. The austerity of the Social Democratic Government has led to the rejection of as many as 70% of women's applications for sickness benefit, which is a worrying development. The policy of the Social Democrats in this area is a severe blow to the face of the most vulnerable women in society. We're talking real anti-female politics here. Instead, we in the Swedish Democrats want to reintroduce the possibility that you can get a fixed-term sickness benefit in order to lower the threshold of support while at the same time giving the person the opportunity for rehabilitation and help to try out the possibility of work after a while. At the same time, of course, the possibility of permanent sickness benefit still exists. Madam President, I would like Another very tragic case that we have been able to read about is Charlotte, who has been hit hard in recent years with a broken back, two cardiac arrests, a stroke and then on top of all cancer. In winter 2017 and spring 2018, Charlotte went through a very difficult time and spent long periods in hospitals. This must have been a terribly tough time for both Charlotte and her daughter Maria. During this period, information was received from Försäkringskassan that Charlotte would not receive any compensation from there. Instead, she was required to register at Arbetsförmedlingen. This requirement came when the 63-year-old was cared for in a ventilator. When the daughter called Försäkringskassan and explained how it was, they recommended that the ICU staff drive Mother Charlotte to Arbetsförmedlingen. This, of course, was not possible, and as the registration did not go through, she does not currently have any protection in her SGI. It is completely untenable that people who are in ventilators should be driven to the Public Employment Service. Something must have gone very wrong in the governance and guidelines of health insurance. The government must correct the regulatory framework for this. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that the regulations should first and foremost be changed so that a person who is so ill that it is cared for in the ICU must of course receive sickness benefit or sickness benefit granted. In addition, we believe that people should not lose their SGI because they do not have the opportunity to go to Arbetsförmedlingen at the time. These data shall be transmitted automatically to the Employment Service. In the long term, everything concerning these people should be merged and dealt with by a single authority, but these proposals are also voting against today's Social Democrats. No, it is time for Sweden to again get a functioning and safe social security and health insurance, as well as a functioning and safe care where people get a chance for rehabilitation and recovery instead of being insured when they are in a ventilator.
i-c9531e61da05864a-28	Madam President, I would like Our financial security systems in the area of social security are based on receiving support and assistance when you are ill and unable to work. This means, among other things, that in addition to sickness benefit and sickness benefit, we can get other financial rights. But it also means that we have to help fewer people get sick. Sickness rates in Sweden vary tremendously from year to year. This is a task that we must change. It is not the people who get sick, but it is the management of our health insurance system that does not work. I am thinking, among other things, of everything contained in the report in this context, of health insurance. The management of health insurance is a problem at Försäkringskassan. The cooperation between all those involved, i.e. the health care service, the sick doctor, the sick doctor himself, the employer and, where appropriate, also the Employment Service, does not work. Who is responsible for that? The government has not seriously addressed the problems that exist. It's a flaw. We must now make sure that this is rectified. I and we in the Center Party have said that a review of the sick leave process is needed. One of the motions in the report deals with this. Above all, it is important to start looking from the beginning and before we get sick, that is, in preventive health care and preventive health work. We need to do much more here to prevent long sick leave. Today there is occupational health care. In some places it works very well, but availability in primary care and in contact with doctors does not work throughout the country. That is something that we in the Center Party want to change and improve. To get to a doctor quickly is also important in the sick leave process. Madam President, I would like I said that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and its coordination responsibilities were a shortcoming in this context. The social security inspection has stated on several occasions that something needs to be done to make things easier. We need to work together to reduce sickness rates. But there will be none of this, and that is a flaw. Anyone who has contact with Försäkringskassan knows that it is not there that you can control the others who participate. Who should actually be responsible for planning the sick leave process? It is important that you remain in the workplace and that you have contact with the employer when you fall ill. It is one of the main ways and one of the best for a faster return to work. Then, of course, we must help to make this easier. The current possibilities of being on sick leave 25, 50 or 75 per cent do not really work. If I want to work two whole days, that's not possible. It is therefore important that the sick person himself and the employer have the opportunity to decide in what way to work and how much to work or be at work to facilitate a return. There is simply a need for better incentives, including for businesses. Structures need to be simplified. It must also be possible to report back to Försäkringskassan how much work has been done. The so-called rehabilitation chain that exists today is very good, but it has changed on various small points here and there. It also needs a review. It is important to see that there is a process in sick leave that starts with preventive work before you fall ill and then continues so that there are clear times when different parts will work and be completed. This does not work today either. That is why we need to review the rehabilitation chain to make it better. At the far limit, when everything should be done and all measures should have been made to help the person who is on sick leave to be able to return to work, you should know that you have the right to receive sickness benefit. The far border must exist, but it must also help to follow the chain to the far border. It must not be as now that it has been shown that the far border has contributed to the long - term illness of more people. This is not fair to the person who needs help to be able to work. Of course, I support our motions in this report, but for time-winning, Madam President, I am only in favour of reservation 2. I would also like to say in this context that, in addition to everything else relating to sick leave, it is important that we have a process of sick leave that is equal and contributes to being an entrepreneur or a student and that you have the same rights and obligations. Everyone who can work, in whole or in part.
i-c9531e61da05864a-40	Madam President, I would like When Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll gave her first speech in Östersund last week where the network Now the bastards must be enough – the swearing is not mine but the network's – there to protest against the government's health insurance policy. It is a network that not only exists in Jämtland but has grown rapidly throughout the country. What they have in common is that they feel that they have been abused through Försäkringskassan's treatment of those on sick leave. This is how they write on their side: Dismissal from Försäkringskassan makes me humiliated, sicker and poor. I end up between the chairs and I get depressed, stressed and homeless. Mona Elsert from Östersund is one of those who participated in the protests. She tells the radio that she did an acute back surgery. But after a month, the sickness allowance was withdrawn, and she was referred to social services. As a result, she lost her company, townhouse, and car. My life has been upside down, she says. On Saturday, demonstrations were held against the Social Insurance Agency throughout the country for the treatment of the sick and their benefits. Because Mona's not alone. Aftonbladet told me a few days ago about 63-year-old Charlotte. She has had a cardiac arrest twice, destroyed her back, had a stroke and then had cancer of her throat. Several times both she and her relatives thought that she might not wake up again. Today she can't even eat anymore. Yet the Social Insurance Agency denies her sickness benefit. Instead, the ICU staff had been told to drive Charlotte to Arbetsförmedlingen during the time she was cared for in a ventilator. One might ask whether this is really how it should be when social democrats rule the government. I remember how critical the party was in opposition to the deterioration of the former bourgeois government in health insurance. But then when they themselves come to power nothing happens. Why? The so-called rehabilitation chain is still in place – or the insurance chain, which is probably a better name. It was created by the bourgeois government, but the present government has done nothing about it. It is completely out of date and out-of-date and does not work. First of all, the person who has become ill rarely receives appropriate rehabilitation. The employer often just waits out different time limits and can then get rid of the sick person. The Social Insurance Agency does not think that they are responsible for people who are sick, but it is up to other actors to act. The social security inspection was a few weeks ago in committee and preferred what happens, for example, when it comes to the coordination associations – those who are going to help people get back to work. It is clear that this is working less and less because the Social Insurance Agency has withdrawn from cooperation more and more and no longer perceives it as its mission to help a sick person return to employment. In addition, dramatic cuts have now been made to the Employment Service. The Public Employment Service therefore has no money for operating expenses, and their various programmes for those who have lost their ability to work are now discontinued. And waiting times are just increasing. If you get started with rehabilitation, you will soon reach an administrative deadline that will test you against artificial jobs throughout the labour market. You must then cancel the whole thing and be knocked out of the insurance. Who pays for all this? In fact, it is the person who has the least opportunity to influence the situation who has to pay, namely the individual who has become ill. Today, you are expected in principle to project your entire sick leave, report yourself in exactly the right time to various authorities to keep your compensation, even if you are terminally ill, solve the rehab issue yourself and in different legal bodies and often fight with your own money against the cashier to keep your compensation. The insurance chain also creates effects that contribute to a huge waste of human resources. For example, people who suffer from stress-related illnesses due to their jobs in health care, school or care are forced away from the welfare professions to which they are trained and are asked to seek all sorts of other so-called normal jobs – many times jobs that do not actually exist. This is a loss not only for the individual, but for the whole of society, which is now screaming for trained staff. Health insurance is something we have paid for ourselves through our salary. You set aside part of your own salary space to insure yourself against any illness, much the same as when you insure your car or home. In this way, it is not a contribution. The risks of disease can spread among many people, making it much cheaper than a private system. It's hard to control your health. For example, it is the employer who is legally responsible for ensuring that your workplace is not hazardous to health. Annika Strandhäll made a promise in Aftonbladet two years ago. She wrote that society under the bourgeois government has betrayed children, young, old and sick, but that this development would now be reversed. Work against stress and sick leave would be better, she promised the public employees in particular. The Minister felt that this was not only a quality issue but also a women's issue. She said that the relationship between women's dominated occupations and poorer conditions had to be broken. But in almost all Swedish municipalities it is planned today for cuts, so-called efficiency improvements, which means that fewer people will do more work. According to the agreement concluded with the Center Party and the Liberals, substantial cuts are to be made in the healthcare, school and care activities. Thus, the promise to work against stress and sick leave has not resulted in spending on welfare. A good 500 people die of stress at work every year. The Swedish Work Environment Agency said about two weeks ago that the development of working life is such that the deaths due to work-related stress will increase. Many lives are already shortened by a lack of work environment work. About half of employers today do not live up to the basic requirements of the law on work environment. According to the agency, much is being done, and many feel that things have gone well so far, probably without knowing what the long-term effects are of a lot of stress at work. Yet, in many cases, it is employees who are taking the fall when companies and managers do not comply with the laws. Accidents, stress and poor working environment ultimately prevent many from working and working normally. Many people think that there is insurance and protection against disease here in Sweden, which we pay in to every month. The problem is that current and former governments have taken money from insurance and used it in particular to lower taxes on wealthy people. So even though a great deal of money is paid to the cashier, the government today retains the rigid rules that make it increasingly difficult to be granted sickness benefit or sickness benefit. So you can use this money for other things. Since 2014, the refusal of sickness benefit applications has increased by sixfold, i.e. by nearly 600 per cent. Almost 80% are today refused the application for sickness benefit. This means that almost no one receives their application. Sweden currently has the OECD's strictest rules for receiving sickness benefit. And despite the fact that it was precisely women that the Minister mentioned in her article two years ago, women are most at a disadvantage, not only in working life but also in health insurance. If you look at who receives a refusal, you can see, for example, that the percentage of refusals to pay is higher for women than for men. This applies to both sickness benefit and sickness and activity benefit. The Left Party believes that this is not what the secure welfare should look like. The Left Party has a completely different idea of what a strong and good health insurance should be like for those who have had the bad luck of suffering an accident or illness. It should not be you who takes all the blows, but you should be treated with respect by an officer who not only rejects your case without even seeing you or talking to your doctor. There should be a clear responsibility for how to get help, support and rehabilitation when you need it. I'm gonna give you a real chance to come back if you can. You should not suddenly lose your sickness benefit just because you have reached an administrative limit. Individual conditions must be taken into account, and humanity must govern rather than just bureaucratic zeal. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-c9531e61da05864a-61	Madam President, I would like I have listened with great interest to Nooshi Dadgostar's speech and ask myself a lot of questions about the overall sawing of the Social Democratic Government's policy. I ask myself the question: who writes regulatory letters? Yes, it's the government. It is the government that Nooshi Dadgostar and her left party support. Nooshi Dadgostar supports the feminist government. Nevertheless, she strongly criticises the fact that there is a total inequality when it comes to sick leave statistics. Nooshi Dadgostar criticises the dramatic cut in the Public Employment Service when the government supported by Nooshi Dadgostar has not raised a single crown to increase the budget of the Public Employment Service. I am extremely concerned about how the Left Party of Nooshi Dadgostars can be a support party for the Social Democrats and the government that exists today when the Member is so critical in his speech.
i-c9531e61da05864a-64	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm for the question. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has got this all wrong. The Left Party is not in any government and does not support the government. What is the problem of the Left Party is that the Left Party is entirely alone in pushing, for example, the proposal to change this nine-day target. Now, however, because of the Left Party's protests and many movements outside the Riksdag that have protested against the nine-day goal, the government has removed it. The basic problem is also the Moderate regulations. The rehab chain is created by the Moderates and all their side covenants, the KD and so on. It is difficult in this context to create a majority in the Riksdag for a better health insurance. The Social Democrats are, of course, very bad at this, but what is even worse is the Moderates, unfortunately. This means that I would like to appeal to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm to take a stand for a better health insurance. In this way we could go together and do something in Parliament together. It is about removing the rehabilitation chain that has only caused problems and about ensuring that the levels of compensation are increased and that, for example, the regulatory framework for sickness benefit is improved. Is Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm ready to join the Left Party in these matters?
i-c9531e61da05864a-68	Madam President, I would like I still ask myself a lot of questions. As far as I can remember, the Left Party supported the current government's budget, and if one supports a budget, at least I believe that one is behind the policies of those parties. Then I think it's a little casual of Nooshi Dadgostar to mention the Moderates and their side covenants. There are political parties in our parliament; there are no side associations. Perhaps I can remind Nooshi Dadgostar that the Social Democratic Government of Göran Persson initiated a major reform to reform the entire health insurance system. But he did not go forward with that system, but it had to be done by the Alliance government when it took over power in 2006. A rehabilitation chain is a good thing, because one must have goals to achieve. Then I made it clear that a new rehabilitation chain, adapted to mental health problems, is needed in order for us to be able to get back as many people as possible in our labour market. But I still ask myself how, as Nooshi Dadgostar from the Left Party does, one can support a feminist government when one saws its policy completely along the bumps.
i-c9531e61da05864a-73	Madam President, I would like I am very surprised that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm believes that we support this budget. She herself has attended the committee meeting today. We have written a motion on this budget. We do not support that budget in any way. The reason why there is now chaos at Arbetsförmedlingen and that the insured are so many is basically the M-KD-SD budget. It is the one who has destroyed the whole of Arbetsförmedlingen's work. But I am, of course, very critical of the government's not doing anything in its spring change budget. The best thing would be for everyone to vote for the Left Party budget. Then, of course, we would save Arbetsförmedlingen. We were going to improve the insurance system. But what Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm says in her speech is that she does not want to change anything. She wants to keep the rehab chain. She wants the replacement levels not to be so high. She does not want to do anything about many being insured and protesting against the Social Insurance Agency today. That's my problem. I understand that there is a desire on the part of Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm to make such an appeal to the Left Party: Save Sweden from the moderate orientation of health insurance! But the problem is the Moderates themselves. If the Moderates were ready to join the Left Party to improve health insurance, we would of course join the Moderates. But now there is not such a desire, but here the Left Party stands against all the other parliamentary parties in the work to improve health insurance.
i-c9531e61da05864a-77	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations that we Christian Democrats have in this area, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation 16, which deals with the rehabilitation chain, mentors and workplace advisors. We Christian Democrats believe that social security should be compulsory and jointly funded. It is about people's security during the different stages of life. We will also leave room for complementary solutions and personal responsibility. Madam President, I would like The rehabilitation chain commissions Försäkringskassan to assess the right to sickness benefit after 90 and 180 days. At these time limits, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency shall decide individually on whether the insured person has received the support he or she needs to be able to return to work. But a well-functioning rehabilitation chain is not only about Försäkringskassan, although the cashier has a central role. There are several parties who have to shoulder their responsibilities. The individual, the workplace, the company and health care must also be involved. The Social Insurance Agency has not only to clarify whether there is a right to compensation but also the need for rehabilitation. We Christian Democrats have pointed out in the past that there is a continuing strong need to develop cooperation between the health care system and the Social Insurance Agency in order for the sick person to have a legally secure and adapted process of sick leave and rehabilitation. However, I am marinated by stories from sick people who testify to the opposite. Last week, Minister Strandhäll announced the appointment of Nils Öberg as the new Director General of Försäkringskassan but also that they have adjusted the regulation letter that Försäkringskassan has to work on. Here the government has given the cashier a goal that health insurance should provide security in the event of illness and be an effective support for regaining work capacity and returning to work. This is a good thing, and it also requires strengthening cooperation between healthcare and Försäkringskassan in order for it to become a workshop and not just words. The Parliament has decided that the government will come back with legislative proposals on how to strengthen the rehabilitation chain, and we are now waiting for these proposals. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me touch on something quite different. Every year people suffer grief when a loved one dies. The ability to handle grief is individual. Grief is grief, but grief can have so many different faces. Getting the right support is then crucial. A good mourning process creates the conditions for the bereaved to return to a life that feels both meaningful and good. The organisation Sams, Cooperation for people in grief, conducted a survey among its members in 2014. 85 percent replied that they had been on sick leave because of their loss and grief. The survey showed that more than half had been on full - time sick leave. They had been on sick leave for a period and then started working again – and then they had to register for sick leave again. This does not surprise me after my many years as a priest, for part of my daily life has been walking with people in grief. To be forced to work or to be on sick leave is not the support that the bereaved need. Furthermore, being on sick leave for depression can actually jeopardise both job opportunities and insurance. During 2015 – 2016 there was a project with so-called flexible sick leave for people in Västra Götaland who were treated for cancer and who, despite their illness, wanted to work the days and hours they felt they had the energy for. The final report shows that the possibility of flexible sick leave has largely been positive. The results also indicated that the introduction of flexible sick leave did not lead to an increase in average net days. We Christian Democrats would like to see greater flexibility. We have proposed, among other things, that the fixed steps – 25, 50, 75 and 100 % – contained in the sickness allowance be abolished. They're too square. Unfortunately, even though grief is not a disease, the bereaved person who is unable to work fully cannot be prescribed with anything other than a diagnosis of illness as depression. Earlier this year I asked Minister Strandhäll a written question just if she saw a need for a more flexible health insurance based on grief and the process of grief. I got a nice answer. The Government shares my view that support during the mourning process is important and that health insurance is an essential part of this. We are now awaiting a report on safe health insurance with people at the centre. It looks at, among other things, whether the current regulatory framework is sufficiently flexible and appropriate. The Government therefore intends to return to this matter once the report has been submitted in the autumn. It warms that there is an ambition to look further at this, because the guiding principle must be that every person should be allowed to work 100 percent of their ability. When this capacity is impaired, we should seek effective ways of providing the right support so that the individual regains his or her full working capacity. Here we Christian Democrats believe that greater flexibility in health insurance can be such an answer.
i-c9531e61da05864a-91	Madam President, I would like For me as a social democrat, our common security systems are a fundamental part of our building society. This applies not least to health insurance, which we are debating here today. Health insurance, like other parts of our security system, is there to take care of us when we are not able to take care of ourselves. It is there as a promise to all those who carry society that if you or your people have the bad luck to suffer from illness, we all stand together for each other. This social contract, i.e. the promise that if you stand up for society, society will stand up for you, demanding the trust of our citizens. Unfortunately, I meet too often people whose trust in health insurance, in Försäkringskassan and for that part in society at large has faded slightly. The social contract needs to be strengthened. We need insurance that meets the promise of financial security and support back in health and work. We need a clear and legally secure process, a process where everyone is treated and assessed on the same terms but where each individual is tested on the basis of his or her own conditions. We in here are bound by the social contract to deliver on this promise of security. That in our committee and in this House we have a job to do and that the government and the Social Insurance Agency have a job to do, we all seem to agree on. I am hopeful and hopeful about the future, not least on the basis of the motions in this House and on the basis of the ongoing work of the government. I look forward to building our society stronger for all those who need it most in the coming years and that together we will be able to make Sweden even safer. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-c9531e61da05864a-98	Madam President, I would like I can subscribe to a lot of what Björn Petersson says about us building a strong insurance fund and a strong foundation for creating security for our citizens. I mentioned this in my speech as something I called a Swedish model. I can also say that the Government has received a lot of criticism from the Ombudsman for Justice and from the Swedish National Audit Office. But especially when it comes to the Swedish National Audit Office, the government has only stated that yes, the Swedish Audit Office thinks so, and that is how the criticism has been added to the documents. I therefore ask myself, Björn Petersson, how we can together change Försäkringskassan's decision support, against which the criticism was directed, if the government puts the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism into the pile of all other actions and does nothing about it but thinks that they have answered the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. Björn Petersson represents a feminist government. This feminist government in my world has completely failed, because we see that such a large majority of those on sick leave are women. The feminist government therefore has much to deliver to live up to that description.
i-LHbZEFhfmjgMERquSvf3Vj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for the post! The government received criticism about the decision support, and the response from the government meant that it explained how to work with changes in decision support. They did not duck for criticism, but explained how the work is going on and who is responsible for that work. So they work with decision support. That was the first part. The second part concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. We can continue along this path. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm highlighted the criticism in her speech. This concerned, among other things, the rule of law and the fact that people have got caught up. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the rule of law, which we took note of, was that it did not sufficiently question and review the medical certificates and that it was not considered legally certain. Which individuals could get caught because of it? Society requires that we have legal certainty systems and that everyone is reviewed equally at all times. I'll do that. But I don't think people get caught because of it. The last part concerns a feminist government. I represent a feminist party. A representative of the government will be here shortly, I think. I'm a feminist. I'll do that on any day. I do not agree at all that we should not have done anything, either the party or the government. It is a matter of high priority.
i-c9531e61da05864a-107	Madam President, I would like Björn Petersson says he does not represent a feminist government, but he represents a party that is part of a feminist government. This means that I, as a Member, make great demands on the pursuit of feminist policy so that it becomes visible to all citizens. It is definitely not visible, because we have such a great inequality in terms of the number of sick leave. There is a great inequality when it comes to sick leave for mental illness; as many as 70 per cent of those on sick leave are women, especially women who work in the welfare sector. There's a big challenge. The Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of the decision support available, which I mentioned in my speech, is largely that the decision support is not adapted for mental illness. It is certainly not suited to an equal interpretation, but there are large interpreters. I do not think that is a system of legal certainty. I therefore put the question to Björn Petersson, who is a representative of a feminist government. What we are seeing right now is not equal policy.
i-c9531e61da05864a-111	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there are demands for feminist policy in this House. When it comes to sick leave, the terrible difference in the figures is visible. Women are the main victims of mental illness and are responsible for most of the sick leave. It's bad. We need to work on that. However, it is not the only place where our society is uneven or different. We have big things to do. The fact that women in health care, in municipalities and county councils, are now on sick leave in an unacceptable way is not the result of health insurance. It's a result of a lousy working environment. It is a result of working conditions that are not worthy. It is the result of women being treated in a way on the labour market that men would never accept, and that is the result of their employers – in many cases the public – getting away with it. The government is working to get this mess sorted out. Our party is working on it. And the whole labour movement is working on it. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm is welcome into that congregation. Then we can work on it together.
i-c9531e61da05864a-116	Madam President, I would like Liberals have no motions or reservations in this report. That is because our motions ended up in the budget report last autumn. They were provided with clear money provisions. Then it'll be like that. All of us, at least most of us, suffer sickness or injury. I am proud of the health insurance system we have in Sweden compared to systems in other countries. But as Solveig Zander mentioned, it is not only the Social Insurance Agency that is involved in a sick leave process. I agree that we might need to review it. Liberals don't have any exercise about it. But it's a thought that we should be working on. We have a complex system that has been well-meaningly added to the fact that groups like it have proved unable to get the support they need. I understand that it may be difficult for the Social Insurance Agency's staff to apply the system in all its parts, however much one tries to inform about it. Of course, the case descriptions that have been highlighted in this debate are unacceptable. I'm sure the register will learn from them. But I can also see that a lot of employees are doing a very serious job. And I know from my time as head of the National Board of Health and Welfare that you want to be proud of your job. But when it's all messed up, the air goes out of you. So I think we should be a little thoughtful when we constantly highlight all the problems that we see. Those who are ill and unable to work are entitled to rapid rehabilitation and return to work. The feeling of being needed, the feeling of being at a workplace and working there in a community means so much. But then there must also be the right resources to deploy. I'd like to talk about occupational medicine. It is the speciality that means that you have knowledge of risks of ill health in different types of workplaces. We have 130 doctors with that expertise. There are other professions as well. But only 261 of the doctors are under 65. And there's hardly any new recruits. This is because there is no head of specialist training in occupational medicine for doctors. Neither municipalities nor regions – sometimes we say county councils – feel a responsibility. Those who felt responsible were the Work Life Institute. I regret that the Alliance Government closed it without carrying out a proper impact assessment of where that data would land instead. I have a question for the Government: What is the government doing to secure the regrowth of occupational medicine? If we do not get doctors here, it will not be very interesting for other occupational groups to work with it either. We are urged by the President to save time. I am therefore not going to take any lines at the Government. On the other hand, I would like to hear what is happening with the report on sustainable working life over time, with the report on financial coordination and with the parliamentary inquiry on entrepreneurs and security. I hope to have an answer to that in the speech of the Government, so that we can save that line change.
i-c9531e61da05864a-123	Madam President, I would like I'll start by talking about security. Security, or rather insecurity, is a concept that has been used more and more in politics. Insecureness is often used about places – insecure places, preferably in the suburbs of big cities, where the places themselves create insecurity. It's about fear of other people. Security is a concept that, unlike security, is about experience and feeling. Safety is the actual outcome, but it is also the case that insecurity is created and reproduced when we – true or false – remind each other that we are insecure in a particular environment. That is why those who talk about insecurity contribute to creating insecurity. We should, therefore, at times be a little careful to overly black spots or phenomena. But at the same time: How should we fix problems without talking about them? I would like to talk in this debate about security in a different sense. We need more security in working life. Madam President, I would like Job security is a concept that the Green Party launched quite a few years ago. It is about introducing a fundamentally new social security system – a transparent, comprehensible and modern system aimed at closing the gaps and gaps that we see in today's system. It is about introducing a system where it is easy to know what applies and what compensation we are entitled to if something happens – a system where we can feel safe in working life. The system that we have today undoubtedly has its advantages, but it is also – with an agreement – something of a patchwork. It has come about through several reforms and the addition of several governments. It involves several authorities that need to interact, and the balls of sick and unemployed between different authorities. It is a system that, unfortunately, is perceived by many to be full of chairs that you can fall between. This risks undermining confidence in the system in the long run. We have a system that in many ways is very logical. This is a rehabilitation chain in order to get back to work as soon as possible. This works statistically in almost all cases; it is only in a small proportion of cases that it does not work and that there are problems. But the quantity of cases means that in real numbers there are very high figures, and there is one person behind each figure. Hashtag # 116 the other day is on some social media. This – 116 – is therefore the number of individuals who are refused sickness benefit applications. We can go in and read stories from these people's lives. We can read about how they have been diagnosed by the doctor, but the authority makes a different assessment. It is often about the ability to work, and it is often about mental illness. It's about self-perceived cases. It is about people who have ended up in difficult life situations, to say the least. It's about trust in a system. It's about insecurity. It is also, as I said, often about mental illness. The Green Party has been watching this for a long time. We need a secure labour market and a safe working life. We need a system that makes sense – a system where you don't have to be healthy to be able to cope with illness. It is not just about these 116 people every day who have applied for sickness benefit and been rejected. It is also about all those who do not seek because the system is complicated or difficult or perhaps even perceived as degrading. However, Madam President, if we were to combine sickness and unemployment insurance and create a common authority and a common and equal level of remuneration, adjust the way in which earnings are calculated, allow the system to be tax-financed and change the way in which the authorities today operate, and instead work on the basis of a holistic approach and an individual focus, we would have the basis of the system that the Green Party calls job security. We need to review the social security system, and then we should probably also look at these proposals. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention something that is becoming increasingly international, which the Green Party has had with it for a long time and which was also re-activated at our congress this weekend. It's about basic income, or citizen's salary. I fully understand that there will be a slight conflict in the brain when this type of proposal is presented. It is perceived as very radical when you talk about it. But it has been tried internationally, for example in Finland. It has been done on a small scale but – so far – after all with positive results. It is a transformation that could respond to many of the challenges we face, both in the social security system, in the labour market and elsewhere in society. I think it could be good and interesting to have a government inquiry into basic income. However, in anticipation of new systems, there is clearly a lot to be done in today's social security system, and that is probably what we should focus on. Much has been done by the government. Here I would like to mention, in particular, that we removed the lower deadline during the last parliamentary term, but many other things have also been done and done. We need to continue to strengthen the quality of the sick leave process, not least in order to deal with the increased mental illness, which is difficult to assess. Important work is under way here. I also think it is a good thing that the Government has deleted the nine-day objective that has been discussed earlier in the debate in the regulatory letter to the Authority. It is not bad to have goals of low sick leave, but the question is how this goal should be formulated and where the responsibility should lie. After all, the central thing should primarily be prevention, strengthening public health in order for us to live healthier lives. Such responsibility rests heavily on many. We need to make better life choices but also have the opportunity to make these better choices, both in working life, in leisure time and in school. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude this speech on social security issues by highlighting three specific groups: cultural workers, students and disabled people. Cultural workers' social security was addressed in the artist policy inquiry 2018. It shows, among other things, that artists use social security to a much lesser extent than other groups. We need art and culture, and we need our artists and cultural workers. We must therefore ensure that their economic and social conditions are reasonable. Cultural grants should be eligible for the social security scheme. An artist must be able to afford to be sick or to become a parent but also to receive a good pension. The Social Insurance Agency needs to be strengthened with a special competence that knows and understands the artists' conditions. We also need to further strengthen the system of performing arts alliances. This is, by the way, a very good system. The other group are students. It should be attractive to study, and education should be accessible to everyone. Students should have good conditions. Being able to register as a student has not been easy, nor to come back from a period of illness. We need to make this easier. In an individual environmental party motion, three measures are proposed for students – three measures that make the conditions for illness more similar during the study period to the conditions that apply to the rest of working life: It needs to be easier to register for sick leave as a student, and it needs to be possible to sign up for part-time illness as a student. We need a shorter withdrawal period. Today it is 30 days that apply to students while it is a day for employees. In addition, rehabilitation responsibilities need to be clarified. Today, sick students have no regulated right to rehabilitation at all. The third group that I would like to highlight in particular is disabled. People with disabilities are generally less able to find work. If you stand for a large part of your life outside the labour market, life conditions are of course affected very negatively. Measures have been taken by the government during the previous term of office. However, we need to do more, among other things to facilitate entry into the labour market. We need a more personalised focus, where we see the person's resources instead of the individual's reduced work capacity. You can read more about this in a special environmental party movement. Madam President, I would like With these words, I should like to express my thanks and support for the proposal contained in the SfU20 report of the Social Security Committee.
i-c9531e61da05864a-153	Madam President, I would like I thank Mats Berglund for a very reasoned description of the health insurance system and the whole motion report we are debating today. On the other hand, I am a little confused with the Green Party, which is a part of the Red Green Government. This means that the responsibility rests quite heavily, I would say, with Mats Berglund and his social democratic government colleagues to take responsibility for an equal health insurance and to strengthen the competence of the administrators at Försäkringskassan about the various groups that Mats Berglund highlighted. I would like to see a strengthening of the competence of all members of the Social Insurance Agency's staff in relation to the assessments, on the basis of the high inequality in the assessment of sick leave for mental illness and sick leave in general. I look forward to Mats Berglund and his environmental partners in the Red Green Government taking responsibility for our improvements.
i-c9531e61da05864a-157	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for the question and for the opportunity to discuss this! The health insurance system is a complex system, and it must be so. There is a lot of money involved and a lot of human lives, which I mentioned in my speech. No case is entirely like another, so the system needs to create a framework of necessity so that it becomes possible to deal with this many cases. Elisabeth Rahm once again raised the issue of unequal treatment of cases, whether I understood correctly, and mental ill-health. Mental ill-health is undoubtedly a growing problem throughout society, and it applies to both men and women. Women are over-represented both in mental illness and in ill health. I think it's part of the unequal society. We can come back to that in the next issue of parental insurance. Mental ill health has grown for a long time. We really need to deal with it throughout human life, from childhood, through working life and to the care of the elderly. We need a queue-free BUP and strengthened psychiatry.
i-c9531e61da05864a-161	Madam President, I would like I would like to continue where Mats Berglund left off when it comes to mental illness. In one of our moderate exercises, we have a proposal for a separate rehabilitation chain for mental illness, as it is not possible to compare, for example, a ankle fracture with a fatigue depression. These two diagnoses cannot be compared and used in the same rehabilitation chain. I would also like to highlight the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of decision support. It was originally intended as support and assistance for the insurance handlers in assessing health certificates, but today it is a law and not a recommendation. Here, the red-green government has a major challenge to point out in its regulation letter to Försäkringskassan that not all people are equal and must be treated differently based on different diagnoses. We cannot have a decision support that is so legally insecure and such a blunt object.
i-c9531e61da05864a-163	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, for the question, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm! In fact, it is about the same thing, about the problem of assessment aid and, in particular, about mental illness. Of course, it is much more difficult for a doctor but also for the Social Insurance Agency to assess mental illness than a broken arm or other physical injury, where you can make more accurate assessments. I mentioned # 116 the other day, where most of the stories are taken from people who have some kind of mental illness. It could be depression, fatigue depression or the like. There are also a lot of stories about fibromyalgia, endometriosis and that type of disease, which can also be quite difficult to diagnose. This is clearly a problem built into the system. The Social Insurance Agency, of course, needs to have the skills to determine the doctor's judgement, so that you can find the correct code with letters and numbers and people get the right treatment and proper rehabilitation.
i-c9531e61da05864a-167	Madam President, I would like When the accident arrives, it shouldn't be health insurance that you're worried about. Health insurance should provide both financial security and support for health and work again. It is that combination that is so unique and important to our society. When Stefan Lövven's first government took office in autumn 2014, the challenge was clear. The sickness rates had increased by 50 per cent during the last term of the bourgeois government, and the forecasts were steeply upward. Clear signals from Försäkringskassan were that individuals did not receive the support or test of their ability to work at the reconciliation points of health insurance. So we took over in a situation where Ulf Kristersson, during his time as Minister of Social Security, had succeeded with the piece to secure 100 000 people. It was people who floated through the insurance without getting the right support and then were insured. At the same time as all this happened, he also managed to get the sickness rate to point steeply upwards. I've said this before and I'm saying it again: High sickness rates are not good for anyone. It is not good for those employers who lose important skills, and it is above all not good for the individual who suffers from ill health and illness. The government's objectives have been clear. You shouldn't have to get sick from your job. If you do, you should get the right support to get back to health and work again. This, of course, requires a reinforced work environment based on the fact that employers are more present and assume their rehabilitation responsibilities. But it also requires an active insurance fund with an insurance based on something other than a distant parenthesis and too little support. The government's overall work has produced results. We see effects on the health insurance area, where sickness rates have fallen to lower levels. At the same time, the social partners have taken on the challenge of working more for healthy workplaces. We need to gather broadly to make sure that no one has to get sick of their job, and we will succeed in stabilising sickness rates in the long term. At the same time, we have seen in recent years how the application of the Social Insurance Agency has made the consequences of the current legislation in health insurance, in particular, clear and what it therefore also means when people feel that they do not get the support they need. This picture has also been taken by the government. The Social Insurance Agency has a broader responsibility than simply deciding on compensation. The Authority also has a statutory co-ordination responsibility for providing support to the individual and ensuring that the necessary efforts are carried out. There's still a lot of work to be done here. The Government has given several assignments and had several meetings with Försäkringskassan, individually and together with other actors, to clarify this particular statutory responsibility. When it became clear that after all it did not have an effect, the government eventually chose to change the leadership of Försäkringskassan. The challenges are also in the legislation. The regulatory framework of health insurance should be in line with the changes in society and the needs that people actually have. When the government received signals that this was not the case, we acted. For example, rehabilitation could be interrupted because a deadline was reached, although rehabilitation might offer the best opportunity to return to work. It could also be about those who were concerned about how the Social Insurance Agency assessed the ability to work. The government therefore appointed an inquiry last year to review the application of the legislation and concepts It was in these parts that the government found that there were kerbs that needed to be handled linked to the work capacity trials in connection with the application of the rehabilitation chain. The investigation is also tasked with working towards a better adapted health insurance. It should be easier to get well and get back to work as soon as possible. The regulatory framework should help and support this, not spoil. If you are on sick leave at half-time, the rules assume that you work half-time every day. That's how neither reality nor people work. We know that work is a healthy factor, and then health insurance should also offer the opportunity to work for those who can work. The investigation shall also review the need for adjustments to the insurance cover of persons who have hourly or other fixed-term contracts. It is crucial for the security of insurance that the protection is there even if the security of one's employment is lacking. In April last year, a national coordinator was appointed to put an end to the drain pipes between the different parts. It is a person who gets sick, and it is a person who will come back to health again. This must be at the heart of the issue. The national coordinator has the task of looking at the responsibilities of all the actors involved, but on the basis of what is best for the individual affected by ill health. The National Coordinator is working on behalf of the Government to review the individual's journey through health insurance so that she or he is seriously at the centre and so that the regulatory framework we have provides security and good support back to health and jobs. Last week I was able to introduce a new Director General of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. It is incredibly important that Försäkringskassan is an authority that enjoys a high level of trust, where citizens feel confident that they get the right support and where employees can feel proud. This requires the Authority to fulfil its full mandate, as it is written in instructions, legislation and the Authority's regulatory letter. There needs to be a long-term perspective and balance in the various parts of the authority. This has the new head of the agency Nils Öberg to work on, and I have full confidence that he will take on this work with full force. Our health insurance should be safe when people are in greatest need of support.
i-c9531e61da05864a-187	Madam President, I would like Let me start by thanking Minister Annika Strandhäll for taking the time to participate in today's debates; that's great. There's a lot that sounds good in the investigation. But when someone who has severe cp injury or cancer or is cared for in an intensive care unit for cardiac arrest is not granted sickness benefit or sickness benefit, I feel that something must have gone very wrong in Swedish health insurance. Does Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll really believe that it is a reasonable order for a person who is treated in a hospital ventilator to be driven by the intensive care department to the Employment Service for enrollment and if it cannot be carried out that this person loses his SGI? This tough policy affects women in particular. As many as 70% of women applying for sickness benefit are refused. We see how sick leave due to mental illness, especially in the public sector and in health and social care professions, has skyrocketed. This policy affects women in particular. Action must be taken here, and we have proposed several of these.
i-c9531e61da05864a-192	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is not reasonable for people to get caught in the way that is written in vs. here. The government has therefore taken steps to review the edged parts of the legislation that could result in people being affected in this way. That is why I presented the assignments Mandus Frykman and Claes Jansson have been working on for a year, where they will make suggestions for people to feel safe in health insurance. In the second part, of course, it is not health insurance policy that causes ill-health to affect women, but it is inequality in our society, i.e. that women's dominated workplaces have a worse working environment, that the levels of compensation are lower and that inequality also affects women in private life, because women still take a much greater responsibility for children, homes and families. This was also addressed by the government during the previous term of office by, among other things, providing funds to these particular activities and giving the Swedish Work Environment Authority special assignments to look at women's work environment within, for example, elderly care. The government has also addressed this in several other ways, for example through changes in parental insurance with more reserved months for women and men, so that responsibility for the small children at home will also be shared more equally. It is inequality that increases women's risk of ill-health and that women are therefore over-represented in health insurance. You have to know what's the chicken and the egg, Julia Kronlid. It's important to have the facts right.
i-c9531e61da05864a-197	Madam President, I would like So Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll is serious about forcing women into working life when the children are so small that they can barely walk and that the women should leave them at preschool full days and be stressed all day. Are you serious that this would bring down mental illness and sick leave among women, Annika Strandhäll? Really? I don't understand at all. As far as the working environment for women is concerned, I absolutely agree that this is a major problem. In Sweden the democrats in our budget have made great efforts to contribute to municipalities and regions that are on their knees in order to give people emergency care at all. If these municipalities and regions are to be able to carry out preventive work environment work, we must provide them with the support they need. This has not been done by the government in the spring budget, as I have seen. Rather, psychiatric care is reduced so that people cannot even have access to the rehabilitation they need. A woman contacted me before this debate and said that she has been waiting 26 years for rehabilitation. This can hardly be reasonable. My question is again: what concrete steps does the government want to take to get to the bottom of these problems? For example, we have proposed that it should be a softer assessment at day 180, because we think it is far too harsh. Why do the Social Democrats vote against it? We have proposed that we should be able to study at a lower percentage while maintaining sickness benefit. The Social Democrats are also voting against this today. Why? We have suggested that you can have a more flexible sick leave where people who have cancer, for example, can work when they are able to do so. This exists today in some regions, but we want it all over Sweden. The Social Democrats are also voting against this today. Why?
i-c9531e61da05864a-200	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not suggesting forcing poor women into work when the children are small. What the government proposes is that we have a policy that entails a more equal responsibility also for the small children together with the partner that you live with, usually a man, that is, that you share more equally the responsibility for the small children so that both women and men have the opportunity to participate in working life and, in addition, can actually take responsibility for the children at home and have a balance in life. If Julia Kronlid had known about the statistics, she would have known that women's risk of ill health increases just when the children enter the family and, above all, I would say, when you have your second child. We see that the risk increases with the number of children in the family, which means that women try to combine to work and to take responsibility for children, homes and families. In the second part, we have done a lot during the last parliamentary term to ensure that women have better conditions in the workplaces that today generate a fairly high level of ill-health, for example through special efforts on elderly care and welfare. We have provided extra welfare billions and additional resources for health care because we see that when the need for well-being increases, the need for resources also increases and therefore the ability to provide a good working environment for those who work there. As far as the validity of health insurance is concerned, that is exactly what the two investigations I have presented look at, such as what happens at day 180 when one assesses against normal future work and specific reasons.
i-c9531e61da05864a-204	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that the Minister for Social Security is in the Chamber and is in the debate – I appreciate that. It cannot be said that health insurance is perhaps the part of the government's policy that has received the most criticism, both during the previous term of office and this one, which has really been half-started. For a long time there has been strong criticism of the harsh rules of health insurance. I will mention some of them, such as the fact that many people receive emails from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency saying that they think they are able to work. But the Public Employment Service does not think they are able to work, and then they end up between the chairs, as it is said. In that situation, it is not possible to do so much more than go to social services, which means that they may have to sell a home and a car and everything. There is strong criticism of the rigid deadlines of the rehabilitation chain or the insurance chain. I know that the Minister for Social Security refers to the investigation that we have seen what it has come up with. They propose a minor change on day 180. I would like a more detailed answer from the Minister if there are more things that need to be done with regard to the administrative deadlines, which are very rigid. People are very different. Even when it comes to breaking a bone, for example, you can heal differently quickly depending on, for example, age. More things need to be done in addition to the investigation that has been mentioned. The rules on sickness benefit are unreasonably strict. Even the Swedish National Audit Office says this, and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency itself says so. These are the OECD's toughest rules: hardly anyone is allowed to accept their application for sickness benefit. These were some things. What is Annika Strandhäll's own picture of this?
i-c9531e61da05864a-210	Madam President, I would like As I said, we have followed this extremely closely during the last parliamentary term. As I have explained, it was this that led us to take a number of measures at the beginning of last year. One is that the authorities, both Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen, have been given a special government assignment, the so-called zero tolerance mission, where they will work together to ensure that people do not get caught up in between the authorities. They signed such a cooperation agreement last May. The second is that Försäkringskassan has been given a government assignment in which they should focus in particular on a better dialogue with the healthcare sector. It is an incredibly important part of increasing understanding of each other's different assessments of requirements for medical certificates, for example. In addition to this, it is the two investigations that have exactly the task that Nooshi Dadgostar is calling for, namely to look at the edges of the insurance, such as the 180-day limit when it comes to the assessment of normal work and specific reasons, where Claes Jansson has a special assignment. But Mandus Frykman also has a task, which is about prevention, until you can possibly be considered for work from the Public Employment Service. His mission is to review the whole process, and he handed over his first interim report to me today. He has an opportunity to make proposals for legislative changes, regulatory changes or other parts to suggest changes with the individual in focus, with increased security for the individual and with increased confidence in insurance. Several of the parts that Nooshi Dadgostar points to are therefore under investigation, so that we can get a basis for making decisions in the Swedish Parliament.
i-c9531e61da05864a-215	Madam President, I would like Claes Jansson's investigation mission is rather narrow. For example, he has not been allowed to propose major changes to the rehab chain. Is it the Minister's view that more changes may need to be made to the very rigid administrative deadlines than the individual thing that Claes Jansson has now proposed in relation to the 180-day limit? Are there other things that need to be done? Is it reasonable that, for example, if you do not register for employment services for a certain period of time, you lose your remuneration, as was the case in the previous question? Or does the Minister think that it needs to be handled better so that the individual insured does not feel that it is on their own shoulders that everything rests? Now it feels like you need to be very active yourself to get your rights out in the health insurance we have today. How does the Minister see that so many people have been insured out in recent years? I said in my speech that the number of refusals has been sixfold in recent years, and there are an enormous number of people who do not get to accept their application for sickness benefit. The Minister seemed not only proud but also very pleased that there were so many assurances, because then you get the figures down in the papers. Is that how I'm supposed to interpret the minister when it comes to the number of insured people, that there should be this tough rules in health insurance? Educated people thus expect to start looking for other jobs, even though they have a nurse's training, a nursing training, or other training. I would like to hear a little more from the Minister, because for so many years there have been so many protests against health insurance.
i-c9531e61da05864a-219	Madam President, I would like I hope Nooshi Dadgostar listens to what I'm saying. I have been very clear that we should have safe health insurance based on the support that the individual needs to have an opportunity to return to health and work again. I also made it very clear that we are prepared to review those parts of health insurance that mean that people are experiencing anxiety and insecurity and are being squeezed. The Social Insurance Agency handles 600 000 decisions on sickness benefit each year. 97% of them are approved. I am saying this in order for us to have some order in the figures. But that does not mean that we should do nothing about the errors and shortcomings that exist in insurance. That is exactly what these two investigators have to look at. Claes Jansson doesn't have a narrow assignment. He has a very broad mission, both on the basis of specific reasons and on the basis of normal work that are the parts that today make people feel that there is a edge at day 180. He also has more assignments that he will report this autumn. There was an interim report in January on specific reasons. His final report will be published in the autumn. Among other things, it is about people who have fixed-term employment, and he will propose greater security in insurance. Mandus Frykman has the opportunity to suggest almost what he wants, from the preventive part of the health insurance and until people come to Arbetsförmedlingen. So there is an enormous opportunity for him to make proposals. As far as sickness benefits are concerned, work has been going on last year at the Ministry of Social Affairs, where we are reviewing precisely the fact – there I fully agree with Nooshi Dadgostar – that we have too low a new grant of sickness benefits today, and the regulatory framework needs to be changed. I look forward to coming back with such suggestions.
i-c9531e61da05864a-224	Madam President, I would like Minister for Social Security Strandhäll began with a description of the situation at the time when the alliance government was in power. It wasn't a really truthful picture, I'd say. Göran Persson devoted himself to leaving people on early retirement instead of making sure that they were rehabilitated back to work capacity. For this reason, we continued with Göran Persson's investigation into a complete reform of health insurance. I note that the Minister for Social Security tells us about all the investigations that are going on. A lot has happened, she says. However, it has been five years of prosperity, and we have still not seen any major changes to the social security reform that we have today. There are still far too many people on sick leave, and there is far too much inequality when it comes to sickness rates. And especially in the case of mental illness, there is far too much inequality in the number of sick leavers with the diagnosis of mental illness.
i-c9531e61da05864a-226	Madam President, I would like The picture I painted is completely truthful. The figures I used are completely truthful. For my part, it is fundamentally incredibly important that people should not, of course, be hidden in early retirement or forgotten without being able to work. In fact, when I took office in autumn 2014, the reality was that with the policy that had been pursued they had managed to secure 100 000 people, of which a very large proportion spun around in insurance and came in again as new cases of illness. At the same time, in the last four years of the alliance government, sickness rates increased by 50 percent. So we had a sharp increase in sickness rates and many were insured. We now have a situation in which there are still major shortcomings in health insurance. There are edges that need to be removed, and there are people who get caught. That's not how it's supposed to be. However, we should not have a situation where people cannot under any circumstances be granted sickness benefit or sickness benefit. We have broken the strongly rising trend that took place during Ulf Kristersson's four years as Minister of Social Security. Today we are between nine and ten in sickness benefits. It is a fairly normal level for a country like Sweden. Now we will ensure that the people who need support receive the right support, that they receive it early and that they do not have to get stuck in long sick leave. We will ensure that we have more workplaces where people do not actually have to get sick and that women do not have to suffer from stress of mental illness. But then we have to invest in welfare. We need to ensure that those who work in health care and in school – in women-dominated industries – get the conditions in welfare that are needed to have healthy workplaces and deliver good welfare. We must then give priority to reducing taxes, for example, as this government wants to do.
i-c9531e61da05864a-231	Madam President, I would like Once again, rhetoric is about reducing taxes and prioritising welfare. It is quite unconsoling to continue with this rhetoric in the debate on the basis that this government, in terms of its investment in the Public Employment Service, has not added another penny, but has instead devoted itself to saying that everything is based on the M-KD budget. I think that is a very boring rhetoric. Försäkringskassan is a basic foundation, which I highlighted in my speech, and it should be possible to rely on Försäkringskassan. However, it is not possible today to have decision-making support that is used in a legally insecure way and that gives such uneven and so unclear assessments. The assessment of people definitely depends on the administrator they receive. I am not at all proud of the Social Insurance Agency, which I cannot trust and which makes such uncertain assessments. I still think that for five years of prosperity we should have seen far more changes than we can see today.
i-c9531e61da05864a-234	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Rahm, Björnsdotter, for this speech. I just want to be very clear about the decision support that has been raised on several occasions in this debate. The Swedish National Audit Office points out, among other things, that it is not used equally across the country. It was a criticism. Moreover, it may not take co-morbidity into account, but focuses on a main diagnosis. It may then still be important to know that the National Board of Health and Welfare today has a permanent mission to review the medical decision support. The National Board of Health and Welfare also received additional funding and a permanent reinforcement of this particular task in the autumn budget. One could say that the National Board of Health and Welfare has developed its work with insurance medical decision support in recent years. They have also commissioned Karolinska Institutet to follow this decision support. There are also several evaluations and development work between Försäkringskassan and other actors to make this work as well as possible, as it is an important tool. We can agree on that, can't we? I feel very confident that the Social Insurance Agency takes the comments very seriously and that it is a professional authority that wants to develop and do things better. I also think that there is a need to be a little cautious about rhetoric from time to time. We have done a great deal in the last five years to renovate health insurance, but we are far from satisfied. The government will continue this term of office by improving health insurance and ensuring that people experience security and receive the support they need. That is my objective.
i-c9531e61da05864a-239	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to listen to the minister. Perhaps the most interesting thing was that we now heard why Ann-Marie-Marie Begler was fired or dumped. It was because the Swedish Social Insurance Agency did not ensure that the coordination responsibility worked. The Social Insurance Agency's coordination responsibility is an important part of the sick leave process, and the Minister touched on this very well. What is coordination responsibility? This does not mean that Försäkringskassan can decide on the employer's work environment responsibility or what the employer should do. This does not mean that the long-term care queues are shorter or that access to care is faster. And what about the interpretation of medical certificates, is it not the responsibility of coordination that should be corrected? This can't have taken five years to change. In the time of the alliance government, criticism came from the present government parties. They blamed the rehabilitation chain and many other things. This could not have taken five years. And there can be no need for a special coordinator to find out that the coordination responsibility of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency does not solve the problems. What are the Minister's views on this?
i-c9531e61da05864a-242	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Zander for her speech. It is important that we keep our tongue right when we call our Directors-General and their forms of employment. No one has fired or dumped anyone. Ann-Marie-Marie Begler has been employed as Director General of the Government Office for a little more than a year. She is neither the first nor the last Director General to be moved on for various reasons when you want to change leadership or direction for a Swedish authority. We'll be careful about that. It is very much about the Swedish Social Insurance Agency having to manage to balance two of its core tasks. One is to examine the right to reimbursement in the health insurance under the conditions of insurance. The second is a statutory task to coordinate efforts around the individual in order to get the support that you need to get back to health and work again. This does not mean taking over responsibility from healthcare, from employers or from occupational health care. This means, however, that it has a responsibility to ensure that efforts are made and that cooperation and cooperation with different actors work well, whether in the case of disability organisations, health services or employment services. It's a statutory responsibility you have. That balance must work. That is also one reason why we have now changed and clarified the governance of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency; this balance must be improved.
i-c9531e61da05864a-244	Madam President, I would like Coordination responsibility continues, says the Minister. Coordination of efforts is to be ensured. However, you can coordinate efforts as much as possible when, for example, the employer is not allowed to see what the sickness certificate means and what is written on the sickness certificate; it is not mandatory. Försäkringskassan has no possibility to show the employer, for example, on his own what is stated in the sickness certificate. It is not coordination responsibility that ensures that you get to health care, interventions, rehabilitation or whatever the minister may call it. There is something else that is needed than for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to coordinate efforts. It is the speed of the process that is important. We have witnessed this here, all those who have been in the speaker's seat before, and the Minister has, of course, been listening to what all our Members have said. There are shortcomings in Försäkringskassan's handling. But the responsibility for people getting back to work faster is not the same as the responsibility for coordination, however much the Minister puts pressure on it, but there are other parts of the sick leave process that need to be done something about. If you cannot get to health care, there is no way to get the help and support you need, then it does not help however much coordination responsibility there is. If the employer is not allowed to take part in the sickness certificate, how can the employer take action? No, Minister, it can't take five years to change this.
i-c9531e61da05864a-247	Madam President, I would like No, and that's not something that's taken five years either. The Social Insurance Agency has during these years had the statutory mandate that it had previously had. But when one sees as a government that there are imbalances or shortcomings, as we have seen over the last two and a half years, one must act, which is also exactly what the government has done by giving clarification tasks to the authority that is legally responsible for coordination. The so-called zero tolerance assignment led last year to a collaboration agreement between Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan. The dialogue mission, which the government gave to the agency last year, is about the relationship with the health care system, due to the discussions on health certificates. As far as the whole process of sick leave is concerned and who can possibly do so, each actor must take his or her part, but one must also talk to each other. Mandus Frykman has been assigned as national coordinator for the sick leave process and left his first interim report today. It is about looking at the whole process and what we need to make room for change in order for us to avoid in the future the kind of kerbs and imbalances that we have seen in the last two and a half years. Health insurance has been up for debate for the last 10 to 15 years. We need to create stability and a long-term perspective, and that is the objective of the government during this term of office. The Social Insurance Agency needs to assume its responsibilities, and the other actors need to take their place. Above all, they need to communicate with each other so that individuals do not get caught. This requirement is imposed on all actors by the government.
i-c9531e61da05864a-250	Madam President, I would like I did not really get the answers to all the questions I asked in my main speech, so now I have to take this line time, whatever the President thinks about today's schedule. This coordination has been discussed so much that I do not mention it. But I would like to ask you a little more about the sustainable working life over time and the role of occupational medicine. As I said in the main speech, the occupational medicine and the other staff are certainly not dying out, but a very small resource today compared to 20 years ago. However, they have an extremely important knowledge of the design and content of different workplaces in relation to the health of those who work there. They are also an important provider of knowledge to primary care. Very few doctors and nurses in primary care know a lot, if any, about what it's like in workplaces with what demands are made and how to prevent ill health. I want to think that it is a corps that also means a lot to Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen when trying to coordinate efforts for people to continue working. I would like to hear Annika Strandhäll's comments here. How do we rekindle this specialty?
i-c9531e61da05864a-253	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Barbro Westerholm, for bringing in these perspectives! I'm glad you took your line time so that it became a natural way for me to answer this. These are incredibly important questions. One part is that the final report of the Study on sustainable working life was received over time in January. It is currently being prepared in the Government Office and will be referred to. I'll get back to it a little bit soon. I think you're still into some important parts. The second part that you lift up is the incredibly important role of occupational medicine and how we can support the development of occupational health care in different ways. With regard to the occupational health care issue and also the issue of skills supply linked to occupational health care, these are issues that lie in particular with the new Agency for Safety and Health at Work, Mynak, which was established a short time ago. I would also like to add that our national coordinator for the sick leave process, whose first interim report we received today, also highlights this as a key element in the further work he will now be doing. We have an enormous middle age among our occupational health doctors, as Barbro Westerholm knows. I think it's over 70 years old. It is a dying profession in a society where the labour market is changing at a very rapid rate. For example, people are living and working longer and longer with chronic diseases. We need to get it together. It should also be added that we have started a work between several departments that is also linked to the pension agreement where we look at how we achieve a more sustainable working life. There too, occupational health care and occupational medicine will be a key element.
i-c9531e61da05864a-260	Madam President, I would like It is very good that there is a continuation here and that there are things going on. The oldest occupational physician who has been active for a very long time is 94 years. It is not possible to build the future properly on all those who have officially left the world of work. This thing with the head man is very important. There must be ST trainings for the coming ones. The regions have no responsibility for this. The government has to do something about that. The fact that I raised the question of investigations is because reports reject motions on the grounds that the issue is being prepared in the Government Office – point. Then we don't know anything about what's going on. That is why it is so good that the minister responsible is here and can tell us a little more about what is happening. I realise that with investigations that have not yet been referred, little has happened. But only the fact that we are told that it has not yet been referred to is also information. Then we know how patient we should be when we wait for the answers. That's good. I did not get an answer to my question about entrepreneurs and security.
i-c9531e61da05864a-265	Madam President, I would like I was just about to get back to that. The investigation that Jennie Nilsson led earlier, but which I believe is now led by the Director General of the Swedish Agency for Growth, we appointed during the last term of office. Much of the mission it has comes from the parliamentary social security inquiry. It will look at how we can strengthen the protection of entrepreneurs linked to the social security system. That investigation is formally located in the Ministry of Enterprise. It will be received after the summer. I agree with Barbro Westerholm that it is an important part of creating security no matter what type of company you run or form of employment you have. Today, it is still the case – as we look at a part of the work of the parliamentary social security inquiry – that people are almost still supposed to be full-time and permanent employees in order to benefit from all benefits. We must ensure that we have a social security system that is modern and in line with time. Thank you for good, relevant and important questions.
i-c9531e61da05864a-269	Madam President, I would like Maria, Erik, Margareta and Laila. Too often people are forgotten when we talk about figures and systems in this House. It is people who suffer from illness and other difficult situations that are once again affected when the security systems we are talking about do not work. I came in contact with many people on sick leave in a previous job as a sickness benefit officer. When you work with people who end up in difficult situations, that perspective follows with you your whole life. Everyone who works with people in health care, at government agencies, in municipalities and with trade union assignments knows exactly what I mean. When life takes a new turn, a functioning security system is required. As a social democrat, I stand for the person who is sick not to become poor too. It is about redistributing resources, and it is about equality. A functioning health insurance is fundamental to our welfare society. On the contrary, when health insurance does not work, inequality can be expected to increase. Madam President, I would like I would like to draw attention to some of the motions I have written with proposals for changes in health insurance. One of the motions that will be rejected today is the lack of a complete overview of our security systems. When a person who is on sick leave is assessed by Försäkringskassan to have work capacity and is denied sickness benefit, but cannot return to work, it is referred to Arbetsförmedlingen. If the Arbetsförmedlingen considers that the same person does not have the ability to work due to illness, the individual suddenly falls between the chairs. An overall responsibility for the individual needs to be put in place, and it is time that the authorities introduced the same definition of work capacity. We also need to create greater security by enabling the transition for those who do not manage their own job but who could manage another job after a period of transition. Madam President, I would like Another major problem is the communication between healthcare and Försäkringskassan. Doctors are allowed to supplement far too many medical certificates. It takes a lot of time for both Försäkringskassan and health care. It creates frustration, and in the end it affects the individual who is on sick leave. That is why the problem needs to be solved. Doctors often perceive sick leave as a difficult task. This may not be surprising given that doctors receive only half a day's training in health insurance. A longer education is needed for all future doctors. I also think that follow-up seminars are needed for more experienced doctors. The process of sick leave could also be re-directed so that all doctors can continue to write sick from the first day of illness, but that doctors who are more familiar with insurance medicine will take over when the period of sick leave is likely to be longer. Försäkringskassan also needs to review its way of working and cooperate better with healthcare. The National Board of Health and Welfare's decision support needs to be adapted to avoid generalisations of diagnoses, as people react differently and have different conditions for recovery. Madam President, I would like I would like to end by highlighting a motion with the same message as in all the motions I have written, that the person who gets sick should not become poor. The current regulatory framework is, from some points of view, not adapted to the state of society. For example, it may take longer to receive treatment than the rehabilitation chain allows. It is difficult to get a whole new job with other tasks without first having a time of transition. It is unclear what normal jobs mean, and numerical targets do not make people healthier. We need to change in all parts. Madam President, I would like The government has set up an investigation to review health insurance and make sharp proposals. I think that's good.
i-c9531e61da05864a-282	Madam President, I would like I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Moderates, but for time to come, I only ask for reservation No. 7 by the Moderates and the Center Party. First of all, I'm going to talk about parental insurance. Its most important function is for the child to have a safe first time in life with his parents. There are also other societal perspectives, such as maintaining the birth rate, keeping women firmly anchored in the labour market and increasing equality between women and men. The role of politics is not to decide over the heads of people what is best for each individual. All families are different, and all children are unique. However, there are major problems linked to the uneven withdrawal of parental benefit. We know that differences in withdrawals have far-reaching consequences for women's career prospects, wage developments and future pension income. These very differences also play a major role in the differences between men and women we see in ill health and in absenteeism. There is much evidence that women's higher absenteeism in many cases has elements of both medical, social and economic aspects. A more equal parenthood is therefore important as a starting point not only for reasons of fairness but also because there is a socio-economic interest. At the same time, although the uneven take-off is a problem from the point of view of equality, it is extremely doubtful whether this can be solved with additional quotas. It is contrary to the best interests of the child. Figures clearly show that many children miss time at home with their parents when one parent is unable to stay at home and therefore does not take a few days at all. Better then is to invest in reforms that make it easier for both parents to be present. Sweden has the highest employment rate in the EU among women. Swedish women work to a large extent during early childhood years. Work increases women's economic independence and their ability to shape society and their own lives. Work is a stable cornerstone of an equal society. Nevertheless, women work less than men. This applies not least to foreign-born women, who have an employment rate of 23 percentage points lower than domestic women born. Many do not even enter the labour market to get their first job. This poverty trap cannot be accepted. In Sweden, class trips are to be made possible. For those who have not entered the labour market, it is crucial that it is easy to leave children in preschool and that the driving forces for looking for work are clear. Long periods of absenteeism in the labour market lead to higher job thresholds and a marked increase in the risk of exclusion. In order to strengthen the work line and gender equality for those who have never received their first job, a shift should therefore be made between limited parental benefit for those without earned income and increased entitlement to preschool for children with long-term unemployed parents. Estimates show that closing the gap in employment between domestic and foreign-born women would mean a bnp increase of staggering SEK 93 billion. We can compare this with the extended family week, which would cost SEK 7 billion in full use, and would reduce bnp by SEK 53 billion. It's pretty staggering, too. Sweden has generous parental insurance. But women take 74 percent of the total time. Women are free for a total of fifteen months, but the withdrawal of parental benefit is equivalent to nine and a half months. If you do the math there waiting, as everyone understands, a reduced pension for women. With the government's proposal for a family week, parental leave will be even longer. I therefore wonder, Madam President, if Minister Strandhäll sees that there is an increased risk of family week becoming another women's pension trap. There is a clearly limited take-up of parental benefit among those who run a business. A self-employed person who is free to care for a child may have to carry out certain work in the company. This is not possible under the current rules. There is therefore a need to adapt parental insurance to the conditions of entrepreneurs so that they can, at least to a limited extent, carry out certain activities in the company without losing their parental allowance. It would contribute to a more equal withdrawal and to more present fathers. Sometimes things don't go as planned. For many, a separation with children is involved in a very emotional and demanding process. Here we have a clear need for a reform that means that more absent parents take a clearer financial responsibility fully for their children. Today's system of maintenance and maintenance support, where parents can choose based on their own financial situation, is conflict-driven. Our proposal is an examined model in which more parents pay maintenance that corresponds to their own standard of living. A decision about separation is tough enough when children are involved. Parents shouldn't have to fight because we've created complicated regulations.
i-c9531e61da05864a-297	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Social Security Committee's report on Family Economic Policy. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6 on quota parental insurance, but of course we support all our reservations. It is time for Swedish family policy to focus again on what it is intended for: to facilitate and support families. We should not make it difficult and put sticks in the wheels, as some parties in this House tend to do. The Swedish Democrats have had the best interests of the child in the early days and always start from that. We have in the report a series of good proposals that are just improving and opening up flexibility so that every unique family is given the best ability to get their everyday lives together. What I want to highlight a little extra is something that is also very women-friendly – and something that our feminist government says no to. It is about giving all pregnant women the right to ten days' pregnancy allowance, which can be taken free of charge one month before the expected birth. We know, not least myself, that the last time in pregnancy is both heavy and hard, especially in combination with a full - time ministry. At the same time, you usually have an inner stress and a desire to prepare yourself and your home so that the family gets a harmonious start together with their baby. It is of course individual how the pregnancy takes shape. But our ambition is to strengthen the possibility of preparation, as we know that calm and harmony provide good conditions for both the mother and the expected child. These ten days we mean to be given regardless of whether you have trouble or not. In parallel, we also want to make it easier for pregnant women to have the maternity allowance granted today but which is quite difficult to get, which means that women work far into their pregnancy or take parental leave days to get some breathing space. That is a pity to us, it is actually intended that these days should be taken out after the child is born. The Swedish Democrats, as you all know, want to completely dequota parental insurance. Quotation is something that the Social Democrats are convulsingly holding on to and are now also driving at European level. This is nothing more than labour market policy measures, which in itself is an important area, but they do not really belong in family policy. We believe that quota days are not based on the interests of the family but make it more difficult and less difficult for families to live their daily lives. We politicians must stop interfering in how families plan their family puzzles. Instead, we have to start sending signals to mothers, and fathers too, for that matter, that it is perfectly okay to be at home with their children. It's not bad to be on parental leave. I often hear how tired and elaborate mothers are. I talked to a preschool teacher the other day who said the following:.I see so many stressed and worn-out parents of young children falling down one by one. We have little babies here who haven't even learned how to walk, who are left here in the department all week from morning to night and who are here in far too large children's groups. ..................................................... This cannot possibly be the right way to go. Parents, mainly mothers, should make a career, have their own time and leisure activities and have the perfect home – you should be complete, simply. It is something that is completely impossible and that easily leads to entering the famous wall – speaking of the increased mental illness. Instead, from a political point of view, we must begin to encourage everyone to enjoy the years of young children, which most people, deep down, long to do and want to do most of all. Here we want to create financial conditions, for example by allowing childcare allowances to be granted to parents with children between one and three years of age so that they can stay at home longer and be responsible for caring at home. Sweden basically has a generous family policy, but the government's rhetoric that it is anti-female and a female trap to be at home with their children is rather upsetting our mothers to return to work as soon as possible to fit in with the template that is being painted, as expected of us. Social Democrats, how can you consider it a women's trap to be at home with your children during childhood years? I don't understand that. Madam President, I would like Of course, I and the Swedish Democrats want to emphasise and point out that we see it as both important and self-evident that both parents jointly take responsibility for their children, not only during the childhood years, but until they reach adulthood – if not for life, of course. Taking out parental insurance is, of course, a lower income, and the economic conditions often play a major role when parents share their days among themselves. In order for it to play a little less of a financial role, we believe that there are other ways to go than quotas. Madam President, I would like For example, we want to increase the remuneration from 80% of the salary to 85%. We want to raise the income ceiling from ten to twelve price base amounts, which means that those with higher income do not lose as much at home. Often, it is probably the case that you adjust your everyday life according to the income you have. This can mean that there will be a major financial challenge depending on which of the parents takes leave, especially if the income differs significantly. This, in turn, can result in that family simply being unable to take out all the parenting days, which is nothing more than a loss to the family. Today, fathers have no legal right to leave for maternity care visits, but have to hope that the employer is understanding. It is certainly not a problem all the time, but that decision we think should be on the parent and not on the employer. For us it is obvious that both parents are present when the pregnancy is confirmed and also on the first ultrasounds. That is why we propose such a change of law. I guess that's equality about something. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the committee. We see in the report that other parties also have similar ambitions. Together, let us have a family policy with the best interests of the child in focus where each unique family can shape their life puzzle without politicians in the living room sofa. We shall create opportunities and flexibility, not the other way round.
i-c9531e61da05864a-319	Mr President, I would like to Family economic policy aims to ensure that children grow up safely. Regardless of what family constellation you are in, if you have two parents or more, you have the right to a safe life and a lot of time with your parents. All families, regardless of their appearance, must be given the right conditions for a good family life and a good working life. For us center parties, it can be summed up in three important points, which we have developed in our motions. Firstly, the starting point for family policy should be the best interests of children. Secondly, families must be able to combine family life with working life. Thirdly, society has a great responsibility to catch up with the children who are not well off; the children who are ill. This means, for me and the Center Party, that families themselves must be in a position to decide how to distribute parental days and ensure that parental insurance works. With the parental insurance we have today, it is possible for parents to choose. It is important that all days continue not to be earmarked. There are advantages in dividing the days equally between parents — benefits that are important for the future. Of course, it is important for the economy of the parents, who they are now. It is also important for the children to get in touch with their parents. Of course, it is also important for health, because those who are most sick are actually women, and that in connection with childbirth. Sharing parental leave is important for income, health and contact with one's children. In addition, parental insurance must be made more flexible so that days can be transferred to other related adults. From the Center Party we mean that you should be able to transfer parenting days to a maximum of two people. It has to do with the fact that parents, even if they are two or more, sometimes find it difficult to take out their parenting days. Then you have to be able to leave them to someone else in order to combine family, parenting and working life. Parental insurance, Mr President, must also be changed so that it is easier to be an entrepreneur. It is difficult for entrepreneurs to take parental leave today. It is important to be able to do what form of company it is. One must also be able to study and, at the same time, be on parental leave. It cannot be that we should first study until we are 30 years old, then have a career and then have children. No, that's not how it works. If we want an equal society, it is important that we also think about the opportunities to study and run businesses. This is important precisely from our third point of view, namely the best interests of children and the safety of children. Their right to their parents is A and O in this context. Mr President, I would like to I have now chosen to dwell in this report only on the issue of parenting days. There are, of course, more issues dealt with in the report, but I reserve the right to limit myself to what I have now said. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservation 3 and, of course, also the joint reservation of the Moderates and the Center Party 7.
i-c9531e61da05864a-331	Mr President, I would like to The family is society's most important community and building block. For us, the best interests of children are Christian Democrats on the basis of all family policy issues. It is in the family that we lay the foundation for a safe society. Politics should give families space and conditions, but it should not interfere in and regulate in detail what life choices individuals make. Unfortunately, we often see children standing back when family policies are discussed. Instead of children, socio-economic calculations and inequalities between parents tend to be the focus. We Christian Democrats, of course, welcome greater equality between men and women. But there's parental insurance for the kids. It is the key for children when they are young to receive as much care and as much time as possible with both parents, for a childhood does not replay. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the essence of Christian-Democratic family policy is the best interests of the child, and we believe that this is achieved primarily by strengthening the role of parents. Unfortunately, family policy has often been designed in such a way as to encourage mothers to take greater responsibility than fathers. It has been about economics as well as values and routines. We Christian Democrats want a family policy that promotes an upgraded father role, where it is not quotas of different kinds that are the universal solution to equal parenthood, but where the whole system is structured in a way that encourages both parents to assume their responsibilities throughout parenthood. We believe that the vast majority of parents want that. Each family is unique with its own wishes, needs and conditions. We Christian Democrats do not believe in quotaing and setting a state target for all families to fit in with the same model. No, we want a completely free parental insurance without quotas. We also want guardians to be able to transfer parental benefit days to relatives who do not live in the same household, such as grandparents or adult siblings. This would not least facilitate the everyday lives of single parents. We believe that quotas are counterproductive of the main purpose of parental insurance, namely that children should have as much time as possible with their parents. In fact, some parents are not able to take advantage of the days that cannot be passed on to the other parent, however much they would like. This applies, for example, to many self-employed people, farmers and students. Quotation therefore carries the risk that some parents will have to leave their children for childcare earlier than they would have liked. No, politics must know its limits. It is my firm opinion and that of the Christian Democrats that we Members of Parliament should not regulate people's everyday lives in detail. When it comes to the division of parenting days, we fully rely on the parents' own ability to make wise decisions at home at the kitchen table. Mr President, I would like to While we Christian Democrats are safeguarding parental insurance and the right to more time with children, we mean that as a parent, we should have the right to a continued strong link with the labour market. We therefore believe that family economic policy is one of our most important tools for reconciling family life with working life. Sweden has a female employment rate of 80.4 per cent. It is the highest in the EU. This is much thanks to our extended parental insurance, which has enabled women to work without having to opt out of family life. We'll be proud of that, but we can do more. For example, we Christian Democrats want to strengthen the security of women at the end of pregnancy. Today, most women who feel that they need to step down or completely refrain from work at the end of their pregnancy are referring to starting to take out their parenting days prematurely. This means that they have fewer parenting days with the child once it is born. A few women who work in an environment that is considered dangerous receive pregnancy allowance. Others are on sick leave. But legal uncertainty has been judged to be high, and today's system may be perceived as unpredictable and unfair. We Christian Democrats therefore want a general maternity allowance to be introduced during the last month of pregnancy, as an opportunity for any woman who wants to take advantage of it. The design should be similar to temporary parental allowance, and the number of days replaced should therefore be 20 to 23, depending on the length of the month. Such a system would be simpler, more equal and more legally secure. But above all, it creates greater security for the woman during the end of pregnancy. Mr President, I would like to The current rules on parental benefit are relatively flexible during the child's first year of life. However, at the child's one-year anniversary, a number of restrictive rules enter into force, rules governing the withdrawal of parental benefit and the planning of any siblings. One such rule is that sickness benefit-based income, SGI, is affected if you go to work without at the same time filling out with an equal number of parental benefit days. This means that many parents feel pressured to take their days out as soon as possible, even if they would rather take fewer days to extend the time they are at home with the child. These rules not least disadvantage fathers because they are usually on parental leave for natural biological reasons when the child is a little older. There is also a restrictive rule whereby you have to become pregnant within one year and nine months from the birth of the first child in order to maintain your original parental benefit level. It's sometimes called the speed premium. Instead, we Christian Democrats want sickness and parental benefit to be maintained at the same level for three years. This increased flexibility in parental insurance gives parents greater power to control their everyday lives. This would allow more parents, if they want, to be at home with the child longer. It would also make it easier for parents who wish to reduce working hours during the first year of their child's life, perhaps so that their child's childcare days do not have to be so long – and this without endangering their long-term financial protection or their attachment to the labour market. A Christian Democratic initiative that has contributed to more fathers being at home with children is the popular so-called double days. It's the days when the mother and father can take parental leave together. Today, a maximum of 30 double days may be taken during the child's first year. In order to increase parents' ability to be at home together the whole family, we Christian Democrats want all parental benefit days to be used as double days. We believe that these proposals together improve the ability to combine family life and working life, but above all they increase the opportunities for each family to create a good and safe everyday life with their children. Children who grow up in safe families are well placed to meet the challenges of life. We Christian Democrats see this as a long-term investment for the whole of society. Mr President, I would like to I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only support our reservation 9 in paragraph 4.
i-c9531e61da05864a-350	Mr President, I would like to I will confine myself to commenting on the three reservations we have in the report on Economic Family Policy. I would like to ask you to accept No 5 under paragraph 1. Parental insurance has developed over the last 100 years, partly for the sake of children and partly for the sake of equality. Families can look different, and the insurance has changed over time based on the experience gained. As a result of the addition and changes, this social security scheme is also complex for the uninvited. Therefore, we have exercised that a review should be carried out on the basis of the child perspective and that parents should be given income protection during the first period. Parental insurance should stimulate equality of parenthood. It should also be flexible, because people are different and become more and more different each other as time goes on. Here we have been inspired by the Norwegian system, where parents can choose to receive 100 per cent of their salary over 49 weeks or 80 per cent over 59 weeks. It may be a good model for the loss of income to be reasonable. We believe that the parental allowance days should be used until the child reaches the age of two and the 90 minimum days should be abolished. Furthermore, we believe that the ceiling should be increased to ten basic amounts and that the father days should be increased to 15 days. Parental insurance must also be better adapted to self-employed workers. The second reservation, which we do not support, is in paragraph 5 and has no 14. It is about maintenance support and housing allowance. We believe that there needs to be a review of the future design here too, not least for those parents who live apart and where children have special housing. The starting point must be that more separated parents pay maintenance corresponding to their share of the actual costs, which may mean that some parents pay higher maintenance than they do today. We have a third point, Other benefits. What's it about? Well, on 1 January this year disability and care benefits were abolished while two new benefits were introduced, care allowances and additional costs. Since it is new support, it is important that the government closely follows the consequences of this change and can react if the purpose of the change is not achieved. People shouldn't get caught when we're introducing new things. I have a question for Annika Strandhäll, which I do not know if it fits in with the Minister's speech. We have received the report 'Equality of parenthood and good growing-up conditions for children', and we can see reference to this report in the committee's report. As I said in the last debate, motions are rejected and reference is made to the preparation that is under way. Is it possible to find out a little more about this preparation?
i-c9531e61da05864a-357	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Social Security Committee's proposal. Social democratic family policy means, among other things, that women should not have to choose between making a career and having children. Through equal parental insurance and extended childcare, women can combine parenthood and career, which is important for the vast majority of people. It is we politicians who make this possible. It is a great responsibility, and that responsibility takes on the Social Democrats. Social Democratic economic family policy increases women's freedom while at the same time strengthening their independence. Being able to invest in a career while forming a family increases the possibility of self-realization. An own income increases self-power both during and after working life. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democratic and Swedish family policy is also good from a socio-economic point of view, as we have just heard. We have the highest employment in Sweden's history and one of the highest in the EU. One big explanation for this is that women who are born and raised here participate in working life. Women here are training and getting a job. This increases the prosperity of our society and increases tax revenues to our welfare. We believe that for the vast majority of young women it is a strange idea to have to choose between work and family. And in Sweden in the 21st century no one should have to make that choice. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats want to continue to develop and modernise parental insurance. For this reason, an investigation was launched on 4 February 2016 with the mission to look into five areas, and I will mention three: how parental insurance can be more equal, how the rules can be simplified for the individual and how parental insurance can be better adapted to different family constellations. We were just talking about nuclear families, for example, and that debate has also been held in this House. Mr President, I would like to Let me remind you of the autumn we left behind. It was a autumn that redesigned the political map in Sweden, a autumn where M and KD together with SD voted through a budget before a government was in place. They pushed through a budget that prioritised tax cuts of SEK 20 billion over welfare building. Now we have a government in place after a long, turbulent autumn after the election 2018. Now we have a Social Democratic-led government based on the 73 point programme, which is an agreement between the Social Democrats, the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. The agreement contains two points concerning our committee: paragraphs 7 and 8. What concerns my responsibilities is paragraph 8, which deals with the extra family week. It is gratifying that during this term of office we can carry out an extra family week, which is a continuation of the development of modern parental insurance. It is a reform that will be welcomed by both children and parents. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats believe that all children, regardless of whether they live in Hässelby farm, Bergsjön or Djursholm, have the right to a basic standard, and here the child benefit is important. Child benefit as we know it today makes no difference to children. It does not matter whether the child's parent is a director or assistant nurse. This is precisely the charm of child benefit: everyone who has children is entitled to child benefit – that is our firm opinion. It is also our firm belief that this allowance is for all families with children and that it should not be means-tested or income-tested. We do not want to distinguish parents and point out those who are allowed to put their hat in hand and those who are allowed to avoid it. We do not want such a society. We do not want any more hints or more stigmatisation. Mr President, I would like to Politics is about will and priorities. It is possible to make life easier for people, and it is possible to create conditions for people and for an equal and equal society by using the political instruments at hand. That is why we politicians are in this House. During the previous parliamentary term, the Social Democratic-led government implemented several important reforms in line with these instruments to strengthen the economy of families with children and to increase gender equality. Let's be reminded. We abolished the custody allowance. We raised the basic level of parental benefit. We increased the child benefit by SEK 200 after twelve years. We increased maintenance support by SEK 300. We reformed the maintenance allowance. We raised the income limit in the housing allowance. We reserved another month for each parent in parental insurance, in the gender equality spirit. These were important steps on the road to a more equal society, and this way forward we are working for. Mr President, I would like to Now we can read in the motions from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats that they want to limit and dequota family insurance or reintroduce the custody allowance. It is written about returning the power to the families to decide for themselves. We have absolutely no objection to that, but we are forgetting an important foundation in this debate. One of the major problems is not who is at home with the child, but it is basically a financial issue that becomes problematic. That is why it is our absolute belief that we must work in parallel to ensure that women receive equal pay in the labour market. Even today, men earn more than women, and in the so-called women-dominated professions, wages are usually low. Women's wage development is also not like men's, and this results in an unequal pension after leaving work. Then it will be very counterproductive when the right-wing conservatives want to reintroduce custody allowances which ultimately hamper women's wage development, at the risk of becoming poor pensioners. This is the effect and risk of the custody allowance. In simpler terms, it is a female trap, which we have abolished. This is not sustainable or worthy of a country like Sweden. Since it is only now that we are seriously pursuing an equal family policy, for example, more fathers have started wagging. Although the number is far from equal, it is a bit along the way. It is thanks to a determined family policy that takes its starting point in a gender perspective that it has begun to loosen up, and where we now see increased and more joint responsibility within the family. We think this is a good thing. Instead of dequotating family insurance and going back to the system that we know women lost out on, as the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats now point out, or want to go back to, we Social Democrats want to continue the way forward. This is to take responsibility for Sweden but also for the children, who are entitled to both parents, if there are now two parents in the picture, but it is also to take responsibility for the women's right to gender equality.
i-c9531e61da05864a-372	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Kadir, for your speech. I think the applause from your team was well-meaned, but I have some concerns about applauding a speech that lumps parties together and helps spread the false image that your party leader tried to impute to the Swedish people on May 1st. I'm going to ask you, do you know what family week costs? I am also going to ask you: do you know what it will cost when you negotiate that it is only three days instead of a week, as you promised your constituents? I would also like to ask you: Do you know what it will cost AB Sweden, i.e. how much our whole bnp will decrease when the week is fully expanded? The Minister of Finance stood here in the speaker's chair and said, "Who doesn't want an extra family week in the summer?" I wonder if there are not a little better things to spend these billions on. I would also like to ask Mr Kadir: when the quota is then introduced, what will you do to strengthen women's empowerment? What will you do to strengthen gender equality in Sweden? And what should I answer my daughters when they ask me why it is still that men earn more than women for the same work?
i-c9531e61da05864a-376	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ann-Sofie Alm for the question. I'm not going to evaluate how much our children cost. They're worth all the billions we need to invest in them. It's about the children's right and time together with their parents. In this House, I have now heard the Moderates speak of a feminist perspective. I am pleased that you are talking about this. But it will not be so credible when the Moderates last autumn, before a government was in place, together with the Christian Democrats voted through a budget that meant that the Equality Authority was closed. I'm afraid that doesn't sound very credible to me. When it comes to gender equality and the feminist struggle, it is we politicians who sit in this House who are driving this work. At least I can speak for my party. We Social Democrats will pursue equality policy and fight for it. At the same time, it is important that the social partners also take a closer look at this issue and ensure that there is equal pay in our labour market.
i-c9531e61da05864a-380	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Mr Kadir. Our children are worth billions, he says. I can tell you that bnp will drop by 53 billion. I can tell you that parenting week will cost $7 billion. The children have a right to their parents. However, the honourable Member speaks of this as being the portal clause of the Social Democrats. It just doesn't make sense when you read what you really want. I still wonder how the Social Democrats intend to strengthen women as individuals. There is still talk of the Social Democrats wanting to strengthen the systems. But the systems do not create equality. Nor is an authority the answer to equality. I must inform the honourable Member that the answer to equality is to see every person as an individual, to give all people equal rights, equal obligations and equal opportunities. Only then can we achieve genuine equality.
i-c9531e61da05864a-383	Mr President, I would like to I also said in my speech that it is important that we politicians dare to use the political instruments at their disposal. Throughout history, we Social Democrats have shown that we have dared to use the political instruments to increase equality and to increase equality. That is exactly what we are doing and what we want to continue to do, that is to use the instruments at our disposal. It is a bit naive to think that in a patriarchal society and with the norms that exist in society without the influence of politics and without the influence of politics, equality should be achieved. Here the policies of the Social Democrats differ from those of the Moderates. We dare to use the political instruments to achieve our ambitions.
i-c9531e61da05864a-386	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we in this House have very different views on family policy, Mr Kadir. When he mentions that a reduction in parental insurance would mean a restriction, I would like an explanation of what he means by that. For example, we want to open up the possibility of extending parental insurance to grandparents. You'll say no to that. We also want to increase the compensation in parental insurance so that the withdrawal is as close as possible to the salary that you have. You also say no to that. Kadir Kasirga here mentions the use of various policy instruments. The Social Democrats are very good at that. You mention the custody allowance. But perhaps it is the childcare allowance you are thinking of there. Kadir Kasirga believes that it is a female trap and that it makes the woman stay at home even more. What is it that says the woman should be at home with a childcare allowance? Might as well be the father.
i-c9531e61da05864a-388	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Linda Lindberg from the Swedish Democrats for the question. As far as dequotas are concerned, we have seen throughout history that before quotas started, many more women were at home, and the men were working. We Social Democrats do not want such a society. We are very clear about that. We also believe that the custody allowance was a female trap. In a patriarchal society, where hetero-standards and man-standards are dominant, no one can convince me that it is at home that women and men can try to be equal. It is through work and economic independence that equality can be achieved. It is also important to bear in mind that the custody allowance inhibited women in raising their salaries. They also risked getting a lower pension.
i-c9531e61da05864a-391	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Kadir for his reply. Regardless of a discounted or unquotad parental insurance, it must still be up to each family to decide for themselves who is to be at home and to what extent. It is not politicians who should sit and poke in it and decide who should be at home. I cannot see that this political instrument is so positive for either the children or the parents in question. Mr President, I would like to I could note here that Kadir Kasirga mentioned that you want a society where everyone works so that you can get optimal tax. That's what it's all about. It is not about family policy, it is not about the best interests of the children and it is not primarily about the family being as good and safe as possible during the childhood of the children. We are, of course, committed to ensuring that families have a good financial situation, but also that they are given time when they have young children. It is an incredibly important part of every person's start in life that you have a safe upbringing. It is not a question of withdrawing the optimal tax revenue.
i-c9531e61da05864a-393	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my introduction, the custody allowance was, of course, a female trap. It was also a factor in women not being able to raise their wages and keep up with wage developments. At the end of the day, they would also receive lower pensions, and there would be even more poor pensioners. As far as parental insurance and parental days are concerned, it is not the case today that the policy recommends that one of the parties should stay at home every day. It is still the parties – who live together or do not – who together plan and decide how many of these days they bring their children and when. What is bad about this? I find that very hard to understand. For us Social Democrats, it is of course very important to maintain the welfare society that we have. Tax revenues are absolutely important. But it is also important for people to have a decent pension to live on after working life. Most of the poor pensioners we have in our country are women. It is through work and by keeping up with wage developments that women and men can become equal and equal.
i-c9531e61da05864a-396	Mr President, I would like to One of the most important things in economic family policy is to be able to create the conditions for equal growth conditions for all children. We need to balance the financial differences so that children can grow up well regardless of their parents. I mean, that's a social responsibility. The group that has been getting worse and worse in recent years are single parents. Eight out of ten of the single parents are women. They have an economic standard that is worse than that of both cohabiting and single men. So single women with children currently have the lowest economic standard in Sweden, even with support in the form of child benefit and housing allowance, for example, and have only over half of the income of a cohabiting father. In addition, many have precarious employment and low incomes. Like many others, single women have part-time jobs, resulting in very low incomes. Deficiencies in labour market policies are not all responsible for the relative deterioration of the economy of single women with children. An equally important reason is that distribution policies have become less and less important in terms of smoothing out economic disparities in society. A few years ago, the Social Insurance Agency was able to show that the contribution of economic family policy to redistribution was almost halved after two terms of office by bourgeois Reinfeldt governments. The reduction in disposable income from insurance and both general and means-tested benefits decreased during these eight years most for single parents. Thus, a large proportion of single mothers live under very scarce conditions. That was also the reason why the Left Party last parliamentary term devoted itself to increasing maintenance support in several rounds and raising the housing allowance. Kadir Kasirga took credit for that, but it was the Left Party that got it into the budgets. After all, this has led to relative improvements for single parents. It is very important for us that subsidies and compensations should follow economic developments in general, so that the gaps do not grow. For the Left Party, the aim is to increase equality in society and reduce economic disparities. This is one of the most important tasks that we need to carry out here in Parliament. This requires a strengthened distribution policy aimed at those groups most in need. Furthermore, as regards the withdrawal of days in parental insurance, progress towards a more equal parenthood is still very slow. Women still take three-quarters of the day. During the early childhood years, it is particularly uneven. Women charge 90 per cent in the first year and 82 per cent up to the child's two-year anniversary. These statistics count employers on working life, no matter what it looks like for a single woman's or an individual's life plans. Because of this, women of a certain age face many setbacks in working life, such as recruitment, wage setting, continuing training and so on. It constantly reinforces some kind of picture that it is ultimately always women who are responsible for child rearing and that the father is always some kind of helper. One of the main reasons why women, for example, receive so much lower pensions, as we have also talked about in this House, is precisely that women take most of the parental leave and thus continue to take the main responsibility for home and children when they start working again. This, in turn, creates stress and duplication of work that many handle either through sick leave or by going down part-time. Similarly, many employers expect men who become parents to work at a completely unchanged rate or even more and not be absent to care for their children. This means that male-dominated workplaces can continue to have rather outdated working conditions that do not facilitate parenting. All in all, this has sad consequences both at home for the individual parent and for the well-being of the children and in working life. The fact that women generally take greater responsibility for both children and homes thus leads to lower wage and income development. Many have mentioned that today. In the long term, gender differences in pay become very large after the birth of the first child. 15 years after a couple had their first child, their income difference has increased by 35 percent. Three quarters of this difference is estimated to be due to different responsibilities for the family. Every month the father is home, the future pay for the mother increases by 7 percent. 6 percent, says the minister – okay. Contact between fathers and children after separation, for example, will also be better if the parental allowance days are shared more equally between the parents. We believe that social responsibility needs to be taken to do something about this, which ultimately actually lands in very low pensions and a stressful working life for a great many women in our country. Girls have to be compensated for all the work we do. It is the foundation of a society that holds together and is more equal.
i-c9531e61da05864a-408	Mr President, I would like to We are debating motions and motions from the general period of exercise on issues of family economic policy. It is about parental allowance, temporary parental allowance, i.e. care of children, child benefit and other things. Several of these financial support were provided at a time when men were the norm in the labour market. The woman was home. Having a child was a financial burden. There was a population crisis, and there was a need for a growing prosperity. Sweden went many times ahead, and the measures we took have worked very well for Sweden. Women's entry into the labour market in the 1960s is a result, among other things, of these measures. There was also a great need for labour. The whole family economic policy rests on the idea of the Swedish welfare state, which has benefited Sweden for many decades. We should be grateful to former generations of politicians and social planners. We should be proud of our well-being and our modern political history. But we must also look after the heritage and take family policy into the future. Today's family policy must meet today's family constellations. Mr President, I would like to I will try to keep a little shorter in this debate than in the previous one. I will mainly stick to parental insurance and the investigation about modern parental insurance that came in 2017 and is still on the table. I welcome the question from Liberals' Member Barbro Westerholm to the Government about this investigation. It contains a series of very good proposals to meet today's families, the needs that exist and the constellations that exist today. We need to implement those proposals. This is a more equal family policy in which men take greater responsibility and which provides incentives for women as a group to take further steps in the labour market. Of course, it is quite unreasonable that women earn less than men. Caring for children is an important key to coping with it. We need to have an earlier withdrawal of parental leave so that more days are taken when the children are young but are still flexible to use for children of a little older age. The investigation proposes a three-part insurance policy. That's good. Each parent receives one third each, and the last third can be freely distributed up to the age of three when most days should be used. Then the three-part division continues fixed by up to ten days a year, where four of the ten days will be distributed among the parents. The Green Party broadly supports the investigation. However, we also have some further input, particularly with regard to the last third. Parental insurance should of course be based on the needs of the children. A child should be entitled to his or her parents, to all his or her parents, even if there are more than two. The last third should therefore be able to be freely distributed among parents or to other adults close to the child. It should not be limited to only 60 days. In many families, more than two adults assume parental responsibility. Therefore, the parental code should also be amended so that more than two adults who take parental responsibility can also be legally recognised as a parent. I am also pleased with the change that the government got through last autumn, which will take effect this summer, which will enable a parent's common-law spouse to be on parental leave. It is an issue that the Green Party has been pushing for a long time. Families look many different ways. We need an insurance system that meets it. We need flexibility in the system. We need a gender-neutral parental code. That's how we get a family policy in time. Mr President, I would like to Let me also say something about the child benefit. It has been mentioned here before. The general child benefit, introduced in 1948, has been very positive. There are some motions in the report on restrictions on the general child benefit which are given equal treatment to all. It is a matter of need testing, of reduced benefits if a child has many siblings. In one exercise, it is said that children who have a hard time at school and therefore do not have to be punished twice through the withdrawal of child benefit. All such limitations are bad. The child benefit is strong precisely through the general. The general, or general, child benefit is and has since its inception been a clear indication that society has a responsibility for children. It gives parents the opportunity to use the money they perceive best. There is no risk of stigma or negative foreclosure effects. The grant is cost-effective because it has very low administrative costs precisely because no needs testing is required. We're not gonna change that. Mr President, I would like to I'll finish up here. I do so by calling for all motions to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in report 21 of the Social Security Committee.
i-c9531e61da05864a-422	Mr President, I would like to Swedish family policy is an international miracle. Numerous are the visits that Sweden receives from different parts of the world to understand how we succeed in being on a podium in Europe when it comes to childbirth and at the same time being at the top of the list of women's participation in the labour market. In fact, today we have the highest employment ever measured in an EU country. For it turns out quickly, you see, when men and women do not have to choose between investing in a working life and a career and investing in their family, then you choose both. It is good both for the individual and for society. Sweden's position is not a coincidence. It is the result of determined work, a determined policy and tough priorities. This is about the abolition of co-taxation at the beginning of the 1970s. It is about the introduction of what is still world-unique parental insurance in 1974. It is about the fact that during the same decade we also vigorously expanded general childcare facilities in Sweden. This meant that women's participation in Sweden between 1970 and 1980 rose from about 50 per cent to around 90 per cent. Politics makes a difference. It is a policy for gender equality and women's opportunity to create their own economic platform to make their own choices. Housing allowance is another part. This led to an increase in the standard of living for thousands and thousands of people, and is today a cornerstone of what constitutes Sweden's work for economic equality and redistribution. But there are also systems of their time with their challenges, and they need to be modernised, adapted and upgraded. We in the government have a term of office behind us of renovations when it comes to economic family policy, and we are by no means clear. During the previous term of office, we raised the income limits of the housing allowance for the first time since 1997. I think that we can all understand what the consequences of the non-increases have been, that fewer and fewer people have benefited from the aid in order to have good housing conditions. Now we have decided to gradually increase the income limits of the housing allowance until 2021. What does that mean? Well, that means that 18 000 more families with children will receive financial support for a good home when the expansion is complete. We also increased the maintenance allowance for all children but mostly for the oldest, who got an increase of 800 SEK a month. Hundreds make a difference. We increased the child benefit by SEK 200 per child per month. Here, too, were the latest increases when there was a Social Democratic government in Rosenbad. I think we're all seeing the red thread. It is about which government prioritises children's security and growing-up conditions and who does not. When it comes to family economic policy, active political decisions are needed to prevent compensation from falling behind and being eroded by inflation and wage increases. We have made the active decisions. We also now have an ongoing investigation into the entire housing allowance and maintenance support to make the support more financially smart and redistributive. It will be completed in autumn 2020 so that more children can have a more equal start to their lives. It is the political task to ensure that all children have the best conditions to live their lives in safety and happiness. The good society can be measured by the way our children are. We do this by providing more people with a more secure economic upbringing, but also through a broad exercise of rights and a reduction in economic gaps. For safe and equal children play the best. I started by talking about Swedish family policy as an international miracle, and that is true. Sweden as a country tops most measurements when it comes to gender equality and precisely the opportunity to combine family life and working life. But you can be the best and still see that you have big challenges ahead of you. For our society is not equal, and we have a long journey to go and many necessary reforms to implement on the way there. We know that women still work part-time in Sweden to a much greater extent than men. We know that women are much more at home with children, both paid and unpaid, than men are. We know that women are far more sick than men are. Two out of three people on sick leave are women. This is, of course, linked to the fact that women are much more double-workers. The risk of ill health increases with the children. In fact, the clear difference in sick leave between women and men begins to be noticed when the children arrive. In addition, studies show that when men leave work and come home, their pulse goes down. But as the working day of women draws to a close, their heart rate rises, for then they pass two – at home. Women also have lower pensions than men, an average of SEK 6,000 a month. All these are the consequences of the fact that we still have an unequal society and that we have challenges that we need to face together. In many cases, this requires action in areas quite different from family economic policies. It is about the opportunity and the right to work full time and about efforts for a better working environment. But here too, economic family policy must follow and ensure that it is not part of the problem, but part of the solution, just as it was intended in the 1970s. Our support is a child of its time, and when our parental insurance came into place it was courageous politicians who then moved the borders forward and set an example for the outside world. Together, we must dare to be just as brave at this time. In the winter of 2017, the Parental Insurance Investigation submitted its final report proposing a completely new model for the insurance. Since then, it has been out for consultation, and parts have been taken forward in a fast track as a proposal that has already been voted on in this House. However, the major proposals remain. It is quite clear that with the construction we have today, it will take a long time before we reach an equal family life. I would therefore like to see broad political dialogues on the future of parental insurance so that we can also achieve a more equal rate of withdrawal. It should be an insurance that is adapted to today's modern labour market and family life and puts children's best interests at the centre. The government has invited and started dialogue, and we hope that together we can move forward. Because we all need to do our part to achieve a more equal Sweden.
i-c9531e61da05864a-439	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for the truths she delivers involved in a few other things. I have a troubling question. Försäkringskassan is one of our largest and most important authorities. Management and governance play a crucial role for individuals. They are individuals who often find themselves in a vulnerable situation. The Ministry of Social Affairs warned the Social Insurance Agency of serious consequences after public documents concerning meetings between the State Secretary of State and the then Director General Begler were distributed to TV4. Mr President, I would like to I am curious to know whether the Government can answer what serious consequences it would have if, in future, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency issued public documents in accordance with the principle of public access.
i-c9531e61da05864a-442	I would like to remind you that the subject of this debate is family economic policy. The Government is happy to comment on the matter, but I would nevertheless remind you of the subject of the debate.
i-QbHBb5RaJXPraEPuGWAXsW	Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Sofie Alm! I am very happy to answer questions if they are asked in the right forum. Nevertheless, I will give you a brief answer to this question, just as I did when I was asked initially. It is quite obvious to me as the minister responsible and the Minister of State and to the Ministry of Social Affairs that we comply with the legislation in force, not least with regard to the principle of public access. I have made this clear. It is possible to read in the media, and I answered the same day as the question came up. We do not normally in the Ministry of Social Affairs, nor do I, as the responsible Minister of State, threaten our authorities with serious consequences for their disclosure of documents in accordance with the legislation in force. Neither did we in this case. I find it a little sad that the issue is raised in this way and in this forum.
i-c9531e61da05864a-445	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Strandhäll, for your answer! I would really like to hear what the Government means by serious consequences and what that means. However, I am going to ask if the Minister would like to answer the question I put in my speech. The Minister has been clear from the speaker's seat here about the difference in pensions between women and men. Women receive SEK 6,000 less in pension than men receive. I mentioned family week in my speech. Women take 74 per cent of the total time, and women are free for almost fifteen months, but only take paid time through the parental allowance for nine and a half months. It is a rather simple mathematics that it is ultimately a matter of reducing the pension. I wonder if the Government sees that there is an increased risk of extending parental insurance with the family week and that there is an additional women's pension trap.
i-c9531e61da05864a-449	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm, for the question! Let me be clear that the government has no other policy objective than to pursue a policy that is, first of all, good for children. Secondly, it is about the importance of children having access to both their parents through this policy, even when they are small. I do not know whether I am going to interpret Ann-Sofie Alm's speech as saying that you too feel the importance that we feel of bringing about reforms with the help of this House, which means that perhaps we can get more equal benefits from parental insurance. We know that the only thing that has historically worked so far is an increase in quotas. For example, it is possible to compare this with Denmark, which does not have this system. Just as Sweden did before we introduced the first reserved month of parental insurance, Denmark has a withdrawal of about 8% among fathers. So did we in Sweden then, in 1995. Now we're at 26%. We know that the weighted months of parental insurance are the only ones that have worked. Denmark does not have this, and they remain at around 8%. We can take advantage of the experience we have. Let me be clear about family week: it is, of course, intended to be divided equally between parents so that both parents can be present even when the children get a little older and, for example, support them during their teens. This is a development of Swedish family policy. It is a modern family policy with about the same courage, I would say, as when we introduced the extremely generous parental insurance in the 1970s. It stuck out then, and so may family week today. But in the future it too may prove to be a good investment.
i-c9531e61da05864a-454	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Strandhäll, for being here to answer questions! For us Swedish democrats, the primary aim of family policy is to facilitate and support the country's families, primarily with children in focus. We have a series of proposals that increase the opportunities of families and promote good conditions. Among other things, we suggest mothers-to-be ten days' pregnancy allowance that can be used in the last month, precisely to provide the best preparations for both the mother and the child. Similarly, we want to see a legal right for both parents to leave work to take part in maternity care visits. Instead of quota parenting days, which we intend to remove, we want to raise the ceiling in parental insurance from 80 to 85 % of the salary, mainly in order to improve the economic conditions, but also in order for the distribution to a lesser extent to be determined by economic factors. We have a series of proposals for greater flexibility and choices that strengthen the economy, and of course we have further proposals in the pipeline. You claim in your rhetoric that our approach to the quota of parental insurance would be anti-female, when it is really your policy on this issue that makes everyday life difficult for our women and puts them under stress in the workplace. What do the Social Democrats and Minister Strandhäll find so alarming about our proposals?
i-c9531e61da05864a-456	Mr President, I would like to Let me take one example, Linda Lindberg. Sweden is one of the few countries in Europe that have abolished co-taxation. We did so back in 1971, precisely because we saw that the fact that we had co-taxation meant that the incentives for women to get out of their homes and get an education and their own economic basis were severely hampered. Today we can look at countries such as Germany, which retain this system. Today, and in many other European countries, we have, I would say, the world's best educated housewives. Women are training and investing in a future in the labour market. When they have children, they go home and become housewives, with all that that means for a lot of women. For example, you may not have the economic choice on the day the relationship does not work and you want to leave your husband. In addition, when children are young, they may not have access to both their parents, with all that that entails. Instead, one leans against an old housewifeal from the 50's that I think very few Swedish women today can imagine. I think it is absolutely natural for most Swedish women today that you should have the opportunity to combine family life with a career. I therefore believe that the policy of the Swedish democrats, both in relation to co-taxation and in relation to the desire to change parental insurance, is to some extent hostile to women. It will have the consequence that more women are forced back to their homes and have less choice.
i-c9531e61da05864a-459	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Strandhäll, for your answer! I would like to point out that we are of course very aware that we have a very generous family policy in Sweden. And we are not talking about co-taxation, we are talking about a strengthened parental insurance policy where we increase the compensation from 80 to 85 percent and where we also raise the price base amount from 10 to 12 percent so that the financial difference is not so great in the case of possible parental insurance. We also see that the wage step is a problem and that, in the long run, it has a major impact on pensions later on. However, we believe that there must be other incentives to develop instead of quotas and to be in and poaching the everyday lives of families. As we know, you are pushing the issue of quota parental insurance both here in Sweden and at European level. From our side, we cannot see how it strengthens and increases the choice for each unique family. Rather, it limits them. As mentioned earlier in the debate, there are even parents who miss taking days, simply because they do not have that opportunity. You also say that you are a voice for a strong society where you as a parent can both work full-time and have children without putting a knot on yourself or going down in working hours. Earlier today, Annika Strandhäll also said that you do not intend to force women into working life. But that's exactly what you're doing! What do the Social Democrats and Minister Strandhäll mean? One week's extra leave does not solve everyday problems.
i-c9531e61da05864a-465	Mr President, I would like to Let us put an end to this debate on the economy once and for all. There are studies done on this. We have had parental insurance for 44 years and can quite clearly see that it is not the economy that determines how to choose who should be at home. In addition, approximately 90% of the Swedish labour market is currently covered by collective parental benefit allowances. This means that most people today – in the state, in municipalities and indeed in most private workplaces – have a collective parental allowance covering up to 90 per cent of the salary they normally have. So it is not the economy that is crucial here, and we know that. In the second part, I think it is incredibly important that we ensure that more families have an opportunity to have a balance at home when the children are young. Women's pulse should not have to get up when they come home while men's going down. We will make sure that it is quite obvious in Sweden that children have access to both their parents when they are young, because it benefits the child, and that both share that responsibility. We're talking quota parental insurance here. I usually say that parental insurance has been quotad since it was introduced. Each parent has his days; then there has been a possibility of transfer. That transferability has made – unfortunately – that it is men who leave their days to women. That is why we have introduced these reserved days that cannot be transferred. So the whole debate is somewhat in reverse. We must ensure that we have better conditions in the home. Family week is such a measure, to ensure a little better balance. It's supposed to be equal.
i-c9531e61da05864a-469	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank you for the picture that the Government gave, with equal parenthood and good growing-up conditions for children. I mean, having heard speeches here and there and in all sorts of places, that there is a lack of history as to why our assurances look like they do. There are also issues that are dealt with in the Social Affairs Committee that have nothing to do with money, but are still linked to equality and the birth of children. I think you should bring such a mirror accounting. I've been around for a while. I was there when we approved the pill as the birth control pill in 1964, when a man as a woman could decide for himself. You weren't dependent on the man using a condom, and you didn't have to mess with his pessar. The pills were amazing. Then it was amazing when co-taxation disappeared in 1971. I was co - taxed, and I had nothing left of my salary. There was no childcare either, but it was paid for in full. Then, in 1974, the Act on Abortion came into force in 1975, and we received the Law on Equality in 1980. There is a fantastic Swedish story here that I hope the Government will bring with you when you write the bill, so that we get this background picture.
i-c9531e61da05864a-473	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Barbro Westerholm! It is a privilege to listen to you who have been on this entire journey. Together we can look back and evaluate what this has meant for Sweden's women, for Sweden's families, for the children who grow up in Sweden and for women's economic independence. Today we can see – after this long work by the many women, including Barbro Westerholm, who have been in the front line to get these reforms in place – what it means for Sweden and the image of Sweden in the outside world. Today we are looked at and asked, How has it happened? How can you stand there and be at the forefront and at the same time manage to have a relatively high birth rate? We have safe, strong women who take their place, including in the Swedish parliament, which is one of the world's most equal. What to think about is: What does modern parental insurance look like for the future? We look forward to writing out this bill, and we will see what support it receives. I believe that at this time we are living in it is really about not only monitoring the achievements but also considering where we are putting the next flag stick to deal with the inequality that actually persists in this country and which has implications for women's health, children's access to both their parents, women's pensions and women's wages.
i-c9531e61da05864a-476	Mr President, I would like to I know there are several committees to debate after us, so I am pleased with this discussion. Thank you!
i-c9531e61da05864a-477	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Westerholm for that.
i-c9531e61da05864a-479	Mr President, I would like to Let me tell you about our pension system, which actually has more than 25 years on its neck. It's completely out of the state budget. It's just on its own. Our pensions do not compete with the roll-out of high-speed trains, with how much money we spend on other security systems or with whether we are going to reduce the tax on entrepreneurs. This means that our pension system is dependent on us to work and on us to devote money during our working life to our senior years, that is, when we stop working. The basic principle of the system is that we allocate part of the salary to the pension. Part of that part, 21⁄2 percent, goes to what we call premium pension, which we have to choose for ourselves how we want to place. The second part is that assigned by the employer to occupational pensions. The third part is what we save ourselves if we want to. This is important. Having a system that's on its own means we know there's money. We distribute the money that is in the system with our share that we have put in, and the rest goes in solidarity to other pensioners as well. As we look out into the global world in which we live now, we know that these 25 years have changed the world picture. They have changed how long we live and have contributed to the fact that we actually need to upgrade our pension system. We're getting a lot older than we were 25 years ago-- life expectancy has increased. And the way we invest our pension money has become age-old, because the world economy has changed, as have our lifestyles. In 2009, ten years ago, we had a recession, and that, of course, also affected our pension system. This contributed to lower pensions. In 2014, we were aware that life expectancy had increased by two and a half years in these 25 years. Pension funds were not well managed. They were not well managed, and the investment rules for our AP funds now need to be updated. We must ensure that the pension system works in the world we are going to have tomorrow, because it is our future pensioners that we should be thinking about. There is a parliamentary group, the Pensions Group, which manages our pension system. Those of us who are part of it manage pensions in a way that makes us feel confident that the system cannot be changed as easily in our parliament, but it should live over time. Therefore, on 14 December 2017, the Pensions Group presented nine points on which our system needs to be improved. The first point was that we should have a higher retirement age because we live longer. The second was that we should have equal pensions. We have heard here in the debate, in terms of both health insurance and parental insurance, that it is women who have the lowest pensions. The third point was that we need to modernise the AP fund rules and the fourth that we need to strengthen basic protection. The fifth point was that we need to have a clearer fund square, where the funds for our premium pensions are combined. The sixth point was that work environment and education-related measures need to be taken. V i not only needs to be able to work longer, but we also need to get into the labour market earlier. One point meant that we need advice to talk with the parties. One of the points was that we should appoint a delegation for older workers, and the last point was that we need to look at the deduction rules for occupational pensions. These were nine incredibly important points, and measures for the vast majority of us have taken – all apart from equality in terms of pensions and the work environment and education, because it is not really on our table. We have made sure to increase the guarantee pension. There is a proposal which means that those with the lowest pensions will now receive a higher pension. We also have a proposal to raise the retirement age. The rules for modernising the AP funds are also ready, and we have changed and clarified the rules on how to proceed when funds leave the fund square. The elderly delegation is important, because it has the task of ensuring that we understand how important it is for us to have an older workforce in the labour market. Knowledge and experience of the older workforce are important not only for us to have a higher pension but also because we need the skills of older people in the labour market. Mr President, I would like to This issue of equal pensions is something that I am committed to and something that I can proudly say I have been involved in ensuring that we have been included in these points. We in the Center Party have exercised in this report that we want to ensure that women receive higher pensions. It is a question of having equal pay, or higher pay, and of being able to work full-time, because it is important, as is the fact that men take parental leave to the same extent. To remedy this – because it is not possible to arrange on a board – we from the Center Party want you to be able to share pension rights during the years you have young children. It's a way of taking action before we get equal society – we have heard here that it will take a few years before we get it. Therefore, we must do something to share pension rights between the husband and the woman in the family. As I said, it is especially important when the children are young. Mr President, I would like to With this, I have wanted to express how important our pension system is and how important it is that we have control over it. It should be a system that will last, just as they said when it was implemented, until the next ice age. Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, behind all our moves, but for time winning, I particularly approve of reservation 1.
i-c9531e61da05864a-493	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we in the Left Party support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 2. In Sweden, the rules for the pension system are laid down in a closed group of parliamentary parties. We believe that this is a questionable way of making decisions. It is difficult for voters to decide which parties are running the various political proposals and what is actually causing our pension system to not function or function in a certain way today. This is a contributory reason why more and more Swedes feel strongly distrustful of the pension system. Although several parties promise and promise that the pension system will be better and that something will happen, nothing will happen. Sudden reductions in pensions, which have occurred several times in a row in recent years, take place without debate and without parliamentary decisions. We are concerned about this because many voters feel that there are no alternatives to ever-deteriorating pensions. The problem is also that since the formation of the Pensions Group, little has happened. The Pensions Group is engaged in unplanned reviews and considerations but never progresses. The mere fact that the orange envelope appears on the hall floor gives one in four Swedish anxiety and concern, according to the Swedish Pensions Agency. I'm saying it's justified. More than 20 years have passed since the current pension system was launched, and we are now seeing how low the pension system provides. Over 250 000 people are poor pensioners. That's the most in the Nordic countries. More than half of all women have a guarantee pension, i.e. the lowest bottom cover. The most worrying thing is that this is just the beginning. Looking at the years ahead, we can see that the general pension will fall dramatically. Half the salary in retirement is already a fact for the 1950s. If nothing is done, pensions land below 45 per cent of the final salary of all born after 1971 and 40 per cent of the final salary of the millennium generation. The 90s will have to work until they're at least 70. If they start working much earlier than today, work full-time all the time and receive a good salary, they may be able to reach current pension levels, about half of their salary. For those who remember, the parties who took part in the pension agreement promised that the general pension payment would be at least 60% of the final salary, but it is far from that. We in the Left Party believe, moreover, that 60% is too low to maintain a good quality of life. In addition, today a person who has worked full-time a full-time working life can receive hundreds more per month in a general pension than someone who has not worked at all. The reasons for this are, in the first place, the very low provision made for retirement during our working life. The pension group's proposal for an increase in retirement age in the form of an increase in the target age increases pension levels to an average of 53% of final salary. We're saying it's not enough. This also happens under certain conditions, i.e. that you have a decent salary, work full time and so on. Despite an increased retirement age, the system will continue to provide very low pensions as the basic problem remains the low level of contributions. My big problem is that the sex party has not chosen to increase contributions to pensions. It has not chosen to reduce the pension gap between high-income earners, who often have less physically heavy jobs and live longer, and those who have heavier jobs but live shorter or differences between women and men. It is as if the entire pension system is on starvation, but because it refuses to raise the contributions, the famine cure is being addressed in a desperate way by increasing the retirement age further. The retirement age should be increased as and when – again without taking a decision in the Riksdag. There are great inequalities with pensions today. Differences in income are reinforced when we retire. The pension gap between women and men is approximately SEK 65 000 per year, which is more than the income gap in working life. Because basic protection is listed with price developments instead of wage developments, it is also constantly lagging behind. The guarantee pension is thus eroded for each year that passes. A growing number of those receiving guarantee pensions will soon be below low economic standards. The Left Party therefore proposes that the basic protection should instead be listed with wages. When you read the opinions that have come up on the proposal from the Pensions Group on, for example, increased ages, you can see that LO rages over the proposal on increased retirement age. Many do not even manage to work until today's retirement age. Then it is very bad to raise it further. The criticism is largely that the proposal is not linked to improvements in working life so that it is possible to work for so long at all. The LO opinion shows that raising age limits alone will not allow LO groups to work longer. This means that workers in Sweden will receive lower pensions because the risk is passed on to the individual. The idea that we live longer is also fraught with great differences between different groups. The average life expectancy of short-term educated women is falling in Sweden, and it is unchanged for short-term educated men. Thus, an increased retirement age – I would like to emphasise this – will further increase the difference between workers and officials. In fact, as Mr Zander also pointed out and mentioned in the Pensions Group, developments in the working environment are heading in the wrong direction. This goes against the whole idea of raising the retirement age. Self-control over work has been reduced. Seven out of ten working-class women indicate that they can determine their working pace at most during half of their working hours. So it's a deterioration over time. Hard work postures are most common among women in working-class occupations. Exposure to noise has increased over time. Particularly vulnerable are men in working-class occupations, with a share that has increased from 44 to 51 per cent between 1991 and 2015. Access to occupational health care has decreased in all groups between 1995 and 2015. The biggest decrease has occurred for working-class women, where 43 per cent have access to occupational health care, compared with 74 per cent in 1995. Unfortunately, developments are going in the wrong direction, while we are supposed to work longer. LO believes that a wide range of reinforcements must be made in working life before discussing an increase in the retirement age. The rules need to be amended in such a way that more people receive full-time permanent employment so that they can earn a reasonable pension. The Swedish Work Environment Authority needs increased resources. Safety representatives also need to be given increased resources. All employees need to have access to quality-assured occupational health care, and support for conversion needs to be strengthened in different ways and so on. I must certainly agree that it is unreasonable for the only concrete proposal to be raised age limits. There are no other bets. This means that the consequences of poor working environment are one-sidedly passed on to individual employees in the form of very low pension levels for the rest of retirement age. The risk of disease and wear and tear is unequally distributed d, and the LO group is more affected than other groups. What we need to start with is to increase contributions to the pension system. The basis is to increase the pension contribution from today's 17,21 to at least 18, 5, which was the idea when the current system was designed. This would increase the pensions of tomorrow's pensioners by SEK 1 500 per month and today's pensioners by SEK 1 000 per month. It is, of course, completely wrong, I mean, to raise the retirement age. Many people are unable to work even until today's retirement age. However, the increase in retirement age is exacerbated by the fact that the possibility of receiving sickness benefit today is so limited. Almost 80% are rejected today. The Left Party therefore presented on 1 May a proposal that, after the age of 61, a request for sickness benefit should not be made for a transition and examination of the entire labour market. It is not reasonable for a person who is 25 years old to have the same conversion requirements as a person who is going to retire in a few years' time. In this way, many people may not have to retire early and receive sickness benefits. It can dampen the worst effects of increased retirement age. Then it is a key issue to make greater efforts in the public sector to reduce stress and workload. Finally, we in the Left Party are very concerned about the pension system we have. A holistic approach must be taken in order to increase pensions in general and also to reduce the differences in pension payments between workers and officials and between women and men.
i-c9531e61da05864a-511	Mr President, I would like to I am a little upset when you say that the pension system is not working and that pensions have been reduced several times, as the Left Party seems to believe. Pensions have not been reduced several times. The pension system has been reduced in these years on three different occasions. This is because it is not linked to the Treasury. If it were linked to the Treasury, pensions would probably have been reduced considerably more times, and the money would have been spent on other parts. But this is clearly not something the Left Party understands. We have, as I said, partnership councils with the social partners. We've met four times, if I'm not mistaken. The parties are coming round and the reason for this is to work together to help people work longer as we raise the retirement age. This means that we should ensure that the work environment is improved, that further education is improved and that retraining is improved. It is also part of the agreement we have with the government to change the labour market. In addition, we have changed the AP funds. Does the Left Party not believe that this will mean that the investment rules updated will provide more money in our funds? Doesn't the Left Party think it's going to give a higher pension? Will the changes in the premium pension not yield a higher return? Who will make sure that we get more money for the pension system without what we have done now?
i-c9531e61da05864a-515	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Solveig Zander, for the question! I note that Mr Zander first says that pensions have not been reduced, but then she admits that they have actually been reduced three times. That's exactly what I was into. Let me get into the main problem. No, I do not think that the proposals made by the Pensions Group will increase pensions. The main problem with our pension system is that it is heavily underfunded. Although Mr Zander prefers all the points that have been considered in the Pensions Group, there is nothing about us having to increase the contributions to this system, which is heavily underfunded. That's why the brake hits. That's why you don't get higher pensions. I really wonder how people are supposed to receive higher pensions when they also want to reduce labour law and remove the rules of rotation. This means that the oldest in the workplace will smoke first. Anyone who has worked the most money for the company but has a sore neck and wrists will be the one who gets laid off first, and it is usually the one who is a little older. This also works very badly with other government policies. In addition, the government and the Center Party dramatically reduce subsidies to municipalities and county councils, where women work. I don't know where Solveig Zander thinks women get their wages, but 80% of those who work in the public sector are women. If we want to raise women's wages, then we must increase state subsidies. That's where the Center Party wants to cut down dramatically. In all these parts, the Center Party is indeed an enemy of higher pensions.
i-c9531e61da05864a-520	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we are cutting state subsidies dramatically is very much to be taken on board. That's not true. I wonder how the Left Party thinks our money is growing. Will a crown today be worth the same in ten years' time? We put our money in the best way for it to grow. That's how the market works. That's how money comes in, even to our pension system. That is why we have now implemented that our AP funds will have investment rules that mean that we get better opportunities for higher returns from them. I don't know if the Left Party is conjuring its knees to make money grow. The only way is to put the money in a good way. That is exactly what is now becoming a reality. In addition, through our discussions with the parties, we contribute to taking responsibility for improving the working environment and also to ensuring that the employer is given greater responsibility for re-training and further training. Will this not give our workers the opportunity to work longer? After all, we cannot have a retirement period that is longer than we pay into the system. You can't do magic with your knees. Money doesn't rain like manna from heaven. They come from investing.
i-c9531e61da05864a-525	Mr President, I would like to Now I understand what Solveig Zander thinks is going to happen. She's going to a casino! She's going to bet a dollar and hope it'll be a thousand million in 20 years. I don't think you can work that way. We should not think that we can pay really little and make a great investment in some obscure company that we hope will get a great idea in 50 years and that it will lead to very high pensions. That is not the way to manage a state and a pension system! A great many people agree that payments must be increased. AP funds are being invested, and they should be invested in a good way. We fully agree on that. But it does not compensate for the low deposit. There is still too little money to be spent. As I said in my speech, pensions are too low even if we raise the retirement age. If we work until we're 100 years old, we might get good pensions. But I mean that other things are needed, not just that you constantly raise your age. There are so many people who can't even work until today's retirement age. This must be respected by Solveig Zander and the Center Party. You are worn out in the body, and it does not help to do so much cuts in the public sector that the government and Solveig Zander want to do. In order to maintain current levels in municipalities and county councils, we would have to raise to 60 billion. That is far from what the government is shooting at, which means dramatic cuts in the public sector. Then it doesn't matter that you tell employers to be a little nicer and so on. There must be money, and it is a shame that this is combined with reducing job security, which will affect older workers.
i-c9531e61da05864a-530	Mr President, I would like to I support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 3, which concerns a senior-friendly society where everyone can age in security and dignity, to increase the driving forces for a longer working life and to create more equal pensions. Mr President, I would like to It is our elders who have been involved in building this country, and that is why they should be allowed to age with dignity. It is a question of ethics and decency. Dignity doesn't feel age. Today, however, many are getting older with a feeling of anxiety about their own old age. In many cases, one lives in forced loneliness and isolation. We see that there is a lot for us to do politically to tackle this. At the same time, we will see our seniors as a resource – a very important resource. We in the Christian Democrats have criticised the special wage tax for the elderly of 6.15% introduced by the Red Green Government on 1 January 2016. It was and is unhappy for several reasons, and one reason is that experienced nurses, teachers, craftsmen, social secretaries, etc. are needed. With the M-KD budget, we are now ensuring that this tax can be abolished from 1 July this year. That debate will be held and that decision will be taken in this House next week. The decision to abolish the special salary tax for the elderly is well aligned with the decisions we have taken and the agreements we have reached in the Pensions Group, such as the gradual raising of the retirement age. These are the same adjustments that have taken place in both Denmark and Finland, and they are necessary. For today we live almost three years longer than we did when the decision on our pension system was made. In the Pensions Group, we have also agreed to increase the guarantee pension by SEK 200 per month and to increase the ceiling in the housing supplement from SEK 5 600 to SEK 7 000. This means substantial improvements for those pensioners who are in the most difficult financial situation. With these decisions, 800 000 pensioners will have more in their wallets. To us Christian Democrats, protecting the pension system that we have and that saw the light of day in 2003 as a whole is important. We supported it because it is a way to create sustainability both in the present and in the future. That is why we are also actively involved in the work of the parliamentary pension group. If we are to have a long-term sustainable pension system, we in this House must look at what measures we can take to contribute to this. Simply put, one could say that one key for us to have a sustainable pension system in the future is the extension of working life – the increase in the number of years worked. This, in turn, places very great demands on the working environment, so that people not only have the energy to work but also want to work longer. It is also about making it attractive to hire older people and attractive for the individual to retrain. However, if we are going to extend working life, we should not only look at one end but also at the other, namely the age of entry into the labour market. Swedish students finish their academic studies later than students in comparable countries. The age of establishment is now more than eight years higher than it was in the 1990s. According to a report from Skandia, this causes a 60-talist, that is to say, one like me, to receive about 68% of his final salary, while a 90-talist – which includes two of my sons at home – receives 53%. The long-term investigation in 2011 estimated that the private financial loss of shifting the graduation age by one year amounts to SEK 80 000. The OECD is also looking at this with an age of entry and has an eye on a number of countries. They show a difference of five years: When we in Sweden have completed our degree on average, people in Belgium have entered working life five years earlier. Here too, then, we need to look at what political decisions we can make in this House in order to lower the age of entry. For example, the Christian Democrats propose a two-year graduation bonus with double job tax deductions for those who graduate at the latest in the year of their 25th birthday. Mr President, I would like to Since 1999, following a Christian Democrat initiative, there has been a right in the pension system to credit pension rights for so-called children's years. This means that up to four years can be counted as pensionable for the parent who has had the lower income due to, among other things, longer parental leave and part-time work. This reform was important because it usually strengthens women's pensions and signals that caring for their children is an important contribution to society. Today, many times women work part-time, and they do so even after the child's four-year-old's birthday. We Christian Democrats want to increase the number of child-years from four to five in order to compensate more for those parents who go down in working hours or are at home with sick children. We also want to increase the overall comparative income in children's rights years from 75% to 85%, so that those with the lowest income receive a higher pension right. This is a proposal that has also been put forward by the Pension Agency, and according to the Agency, this type of change is estimated to reduce the gap between men's and women's earnings to the general pension by approximately 0.8 percentage points.
i-c9531e61da05864a-542	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the SfU22 report, which concerns the general pension scheme, guarantee pension and housing allowance. Sweden's pensions should be safe and sustainable. As many of us have said, pensions are deferred wages, and each individual has earned them during his or her working life. Our pension system is one of the safest in the world and an important part of our Swedish welfare model. It's robust and reliable. Unfortunately, however, there are gaps between pensioners, and the system is not fair to everyone. Each individual's income plays a major role in the future pension – the more money comes into the system, the more money comes out in the form of pensions. The foundation is the principle of living income. In Sweden there are over 2 million pensioners and 8 million future pensioners. Pensions are therefore something that affects all of us – even me who is a 90-talist. That is why the system must be legitimate. It must create strong trust in people, so that you can trust that the system is on the individual's side on the day you start saving for your pension or the day you retire. The aim of social democracy has always been to combat society's injustices. That is why the Socialist-led government, together with the Pensions Group, is now prioritising, through a variety of measures, the reduction of the financial gaps in the pension system. Madam President, I would like One of the greatest inequalities in the pension system is that between men and women. On average, there are 6 000 SEK per month in pension between the sexes. That is not acceptable in any way. As usual, women are the group in society most affected by the prevailing inequality. It's about women who work in low-wage jobs and in welfare. This applies to women who work part-time in precarious employment and take extra responsibility for unpaid domestic work. This applies to women who have more sick leave and to a greater extent than men are on parental leave. We cannot have a more equal and equal pension system unless we talk about these problems and deal with them together. Madam President, I would like When the pension system was launched in 1994, the policy objective was that all pensioners should receive at least 70% of their final salary in retirement. With the facts in hand, we can see that this was not the case. Pensions are currently too low, which affects each individual's withdrawals. In combination with the fact that our population lives longer today than 20 years ago, we see that pensions are lower the older people. It is of course amazing that people get healthier and live longer in today's Sweden. Life expectancy increases by three and a half hours per day, and this is thanks to large investments in our common – our welfare state. But the consequence of the increase in life expectancy is unfortunately a lower pension than we had anticipated. It is the political task now to solve this problem and to match the needs of the aged population. That is why we will now gradually increase the retirement age and the age of LAS, in order to enable more people to remain in the labour market. As I said, we need more hours worked and a sustainable working life that allows people to stay longer in work. Age discrimination against both young and older people must be combated in all its forms in order for us to have a decent labour market. Just as Hans was at work, my generation – the 90s – has a higher age of establishment in the labour market than previous generations. After the sabbatical year, the first youth job and many years of higher education studies, we enter the labour market when we are around 30 years old. This, of course, affects our pension, and I think many people do not think about it. A longer working life combined with higher deposits is thus a prerequisite for securing safe pensions. My generation is also a generation that will change jobs, retrain and move around the labour market to a greater extent than my parents did. It is also important for society to enable change, skills development and education for all ages. Madam President, I would like Allow me to mention some of the valuable contributions made by the Red Green Government during its term of office in 2014– 2018 together with the Pensions Group. We reduced the tax for 1.7 million pensioners and removed the pensioner's tax for all who had income up to SEK 17 000 per month. We raised the housing supplement twice. We doubled the dental allowance for pensioners. We removed outpatient fees for all over 85 years of age, and we invested in the welfare of the elderly. Of course, that is not enough. In the future, we must do more and more to ensure financial security for all people in society. Today, pensioners are taxed more than employees do through the so-called pensioner tax. It is very unfair, and that is why the Social Democratic-led government will abolish this tax next year. This is a much-needed reform for all pensioners to allow more money in their wallets every month. Madam President, I would like The changes that the Pensions Group is now making with the government during its term of office have broad parliamentary support, which is good for our democracy. During its term of office, the following will be implemented: We will increase the guarantee pension and the housing supplement for those who have the toughest. Those who have worked a whole life with a low salary will receive an increased pension of up to SEK 600 per month. The goal is for people to come up with a pension equal to 70% of their final salary. That is why we are going to increase the contributions to 18.5% and raise the age of the pension system. The pension scheme will be reformed and renovated through a tendered fund square with reduced number of funds. Previously, it has been complicated for individuals to understand the system and choose the right funds. In addition, administrative charges have been too high, which has been a major disadvantage. The premium pension system will now become more understandable and informative than before with the reform. The Government will also take greater responsibility for the transition in the labour market and fix a better working environment that enables a sustainable working life. We will also ensure that a Senior Labour Delegation is set up to work on these issues, such as that more seniors can stay and work in welfare – and that their skills are used – or at school, where there are no staff. As our welfare expands, we need more helping hands. Here, more seniors can take their place in the world of work. Madam President, I would like The main reasons why we are making these changes are that we want to ensure higher pensions and a better working environment for ordinary people. Neither pensioners nor employees should be left in the lurch. Both those who have built up our country, as well as their children and grandchildren, should have a security in their old age. Finally, Madam President, the injustices of the pension system need to be attacked from several quarters through greater equality and security. Therefore, society should take the lead in investing, renovating and improving the pension system. It is very gratifying that the government is now investing SEK 2.1 billion, which will benefit 800 000 pensioners every month. A stronger society is built together through broad democratic foundation.
i-2UoDDuATUj6QS78kVysnxC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erica Nådin, for the post! Erica pointed out that we're going to invest in society and in the pension system, I guess, to make things better. At the same time, the reality is that it was not enough for the M-KD-SD budget to go through and evaded 20 billion from municipalities and county councils; the agreement that the government has entered into with the Center and Liberals also means dramatic cuts in health care, school and care, where many women work. I wonder how this will increase the pensions of women and how it will facilitate a better working environment. In addition, I wonder how the deterioration in the successive rules of the Employment Protection Act will improve the situation of the older workforce. I also heard Erica Nådin tell me that the deposits are going to increase. I am very pleased that they are going to increase to 18.5%. I wonder when this bill is supposed to be tabled, because I have not seen any of it. I only know that for 20 years the Social Democrats have been talking about increased payments. However, nothing has happened even though the Social Democrats are in government, which one could have expected if it were given that kind of promise. I am very curious about when this proposal will be presented. I suppose it will be very soon, because there is an urgent need to increase contributions to the pension system. As I was at work, many people are unable to work right up to today's retirement age. I wonder how it will be easier for that group to get a good pension if you also raise the retirement age. It does not help to raise the retirement age, but it is the payments that need to be increased if we are to get better pensions.
i-c9531e61da05864a-566	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nooshi Dadgostar, for your questions-- there were many different! First of all, it is of course regrettable about the M-KD budget, but we are now bringing 20 billion back into welfare precisely to be able to employ more people in municipalities and regions around the country. Hopefully those who work in welfare – especially women, but also men – will get more colleagues and a better working environment thanks to these investments. The Government also has a work environment strategy aimed at providing a better working environment for our employees in welfare. As has been said, with regard to LAS and that compromise, it is a compromise in the January agreement. Of course, it hurts the heart of a social democrat to have to do this, but because it is a compromise we will do so. We hope that the social partners will be able to find the best possible solution that will allow people to retain security in the labour market. We also hope that older people, through the senior labour force, can stay and enjoy their work. I do not know when a bill of 18.5% will come, but I also hope it will come soon. However, I believe that it is primarily the responsibility of the Pensions Group. I'm not sitting there, so I'm afraid I can't give you an answer, Nooshi Dadgostar. We will also invest these 600 SEK, together with increased housing supplement and better guarantee pension for those who have the worst. I hope that this will make it possible for more pensioners to have better security.
i-XNmx224pxHwHr8LYfvcvGj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erica Nådin, for the answers! One should compare 5 billion per year in investments in municipalities and county councils with 60-70 billion to maintain current levels in the public sector. This is a dramatic cut in the public sector, and at the same time the government stands here and says how important it is to level out the differences in pensions. Eighty per cent of those working in the public sector are women. Their wages are taxes. If you give so little money to the public sector, there will be no wage increases. Then we will have an additional income gap, not just in the world of work. It doubles – it gets bigger in retirement, which I was in on in my post. For me, it does not help with strategies, coordination people or lovely, tough expressions, so to speak, but it has to be spent on resources when talking about a better working environment. If fewer people do much more, which is a consequence of reduced resources, it creates a more stressful and worse working environment. I think it's great if the Pensions Group has decided to increase the contributions to the pension system– that's how I interpret Erica Nådin. It is a very good news that comes in this debate. I also hope that it will be further increased, because I do not think that 18.5% is enough. Like LO, the Left Party agrees that this would probably need to be increased even further. It is not reasonable, for example, for municipal authorities to work a whole life and still have to make use of the guarantee pension. The reasonable thing is to have a very good income pension.
i-c9531e61da05864a-577	Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree that it is unfair and unequal that women earn less and thus receive a lower pension. On the other hand, I really believe that we need to make these investments along with many different proposals to solve these problems. Then the 600 kroner is very important, and 18.5 percent is a good start. But of course it would be great if we could increase them to 20 percent. There will certainly be changes in the long term. The best thing about the Pensions Group is that we have a long-term solution for our large pension system that has been built up over 20 years. But I really do not think that we can talk about the pension system as fair or equal if we do not mention the problems of equality. Unfortunately, women who currently have low pensions have received it because they have worked part-time, taken more responsibility for domestic work and more parental leave than men, plus they already have a much lower salary than men in the labour market. It's recording for retirement, I'm afraid. That is why we want to ensure that the guarantee pension and the housing supplement are increased. I also believe that we need to ensure that the working environment includes the psychosocial work environment and that we break the pattern of mental illness. These are very crucial factors for us to get people to work longer but also to feel comfortable at work while working.
i-c9531e61da05864a-581	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a basically very good pension system, but there are obviously things that need to be improved. We live longer and longer. This is incredibly positive, but it means that pensions are lower because they have to last for a long time. In order to maintain pension levels, working life needs to be extended as we live ever longer. A longer working life is also of great importance for the entire welfare and therefore for society as a whole. There is also a great social interest in people receiving a pension that can be lived on. We Moderates are very concerned about this. I think it is very good that we in the Pensions Group agree that a long working life is really the only thing that applies to better pensions. We can also imagine lowering the tax on pensioners, as we have done this year with our current budget, and we can imagine continuing to do so, mostly for those with the lowest pension so that they can get more in their wallets. It is good that we have a cross-border pension agreement, which has actually been in force for almost 25 years, and it is important that we continue to work within this framework for the continuation of the pension system. The system needs to be long-term, safe and predictable for it to work, because the pension is about people's security in the elderly. Unfortunately, however, not everyone understands our pension system. It became especially apparent when we heard and saw the protests from those with low pensions the other week. Many even feel deceived, for they had thought that there would be much more in their wallets. It is therefore important that we ensure that people know and understand how the system works and that they get an impact assessment of the choices they make during life. This is particularly true of women who have low pensions, those who have been at home with children and those who have worked part-time, as most actually did in the 60s, 70s and 80s. There are many injustices here. You can easily put it this way: The pension is the result of the length of working life and the number of hours worked for each individual. Of course, it also matters how much pay you have and have had for how much your pension will be, as well as having a good occupational pension. This is all connected. It makes a difference, for example, how we take out parental insurance, how we take leave in connection with childhood and whether you, or rather women, work part-time or retire early. All of this ultimately affects the pension. Everyone must understand that everyone is responsible for their pension. Here again it is the women who are, have been and probably will be the great losers. And perhaps politicians have been far too positive about the prospects of the general pension. A large part of the final salary in retirement has been promised and guaranteed. We just heard here that it would be at least 70% of the final salary. But that is not and will not be the case. Of course, there will be a big difference for people when you no longer receive a salary without a pension. It will simply be a great reduction. As late as last year, in the first May century and even re-rehearsed before the elections, Stefan Löfven promised substantial increases in pensions. You could receive up to SEK 600 per month or SEK 5,000 per year in a separate system that should not be part of the regular pension system. There was no information on how this should be paid. We have still not heard how it should be paid, but it must be financed from the state budget. The cost is just over SEK 4 billion per year. That's a lot of money, a big mail. Unfortunately, I do not think that pensioners will be particularly pleased with this increase. There is a great risk of promising more and more when we know that we are living longer and longer. That equation doesn't add up. Of course, it is important to point out that the last years of work are very important for the rest of life's pension payments. However, it is equally important to point out that the time for entering working life is important. We must ensure that it is brought forward and that the view of work and leave when you become an adult is upgraded and better linked to the impact it will have on the future pension. We cannot stress enough that it is only work that creates a good pension. Well, possibly also reduced tax can bring more into the wallet. But we must stress that working life must be longer at both ends. Madam President, I would like In Sweden it will pay both to have worked and to work. Seniors are an extremely important resource in our well-being. We need them in a lot of industries. Therefore, we have moderated for a long time, including in this year's budget, reduced taxes on pensioners and made it more profitable for seniors to continue working in a rich working life. We have set aside large sums of money for this in this year's budget, and I am very proud of that. Since it is our budget that applies, Sweden's pensioners receive more reduced tax than they would have received if the government's budget had been passed. And it pays more to work for a pensioner. We also removed the special wage tax that employers had to pay for older people – a very stupid tax for older people. I think this is discrimination. The difference between us Moderates and the Red Green Government is that they promise more in retirement with money that they don't have. Of course, we Moderates want to make sure everyone gets more money in their wallets. But we are lowering the tax, which is the best way to ensure that people get more money. We've done that six times for pensioners. In this context, I would like to point out that before 2006 and the time of the Alliance in government power, the tax on pensioners had never been reduced by a single crown. Every Swedish pensioner paid thousands or tens of thousands of dollars more in tax each year. Never have people kept more of their salary and pension than since the alliance government with a moderate prime minister took over in 2006. I think that we should be reminded of this sometimes when we talk about protests and low pensions. It was not always better for Sweden's pensioners, when the Social Democrats had their own government power.
i-c9531e61da05864a-596	Madam President, I would like We have a generation of older people where many live in relative poverty. Every other woman and 15 per cent of men have a guarantee pension. Why is it that we cannot live on our pensions anymore? What's gotten worse? Dentists tell us that the elderly with dental problems cannot afford to pay but ask to divide the payment into many small doses. Increasing the grant part by SEK 300 has not helped much. That dental care is free after 85 does not help either. You can't wait 20 years for dental care. Well to note, the price of dental care has increased four times more than the average price of all goods and services since the 80s. It is therefore more expensive today. It is a generation that has tried to fend for itself, is not used to receiving subsidies and does not want to stand with the hat in hand begging for money. It's a generation that doesn't want to blame its children. It's a generation that thought the social contract would last. Yet every fifth Swede helps a relative. Many people have to go down in working hours or even stop working to take care of their loved ones when the municipal service is no longer enough. In 1980, about 70 per cent of elderly people received home care or nursing homes. Today the figure is halved. Many municipalities claim that the elderly want to live at home. It's the cheapest way. They are condemned to loneliness, anxiety and depression. Madam President, I would like Compared to the Consumer Price Index, the guarantee pension fell by good 20 per cent or one fifth from 2006 to 2017. Housing allowance and older people's supply allowance have more or less followed the consumer price index. Should the guarantee pension not follow the increase in inflation and income for the working population? This would reduce the income gap between retirement and work. At the same time, the Pensions Group, a body within the Government Office formed by six parties in 2007 and based on an agreement from 1994, has agreed with the Riksdag that the retirement age should be gradually increased, as we live longer and healthier, starting in 2020. We Swedish democrats are not happy to see an increase in the retirement age. We believe that those who want to work full - time, part - time or hours should be allowed to do so. We believe that the pension threshold must be flexible. We believe that incentives must be created to make people want to work longer, such as not taxing the extra income they receive through jobs up to a certain amount. There are 45 000 pensioners living in relative poverty, most of whom are women. The guarantee pension of SEK 8,254 before tax as single sheep is very low. A study shows that although men and women in the same profession, such as doctors, teachers and civil engineering, have equal pay throughout their lives, women have a lower pension – this is when the income of life and not the salary governs the pension. Women have 82% of men's income in life. The change in income is linked to childbirth between 26 and 32 years of age and subsequently through absence on the labour market due to care for a child and then perhaps part-time. Here we need to look from the bottom up at how we can find sustainable solutions to strengthen the pension for parents, both mothers and fathers, who take a great deal of responsibility for children during infancy. Investing in a safe life for children with time with parents should not be punished by lower pensions. How can it be that when I take care of my own children, it is called parental leave, while when I take care of other people's children, it is work with full pay? The problem of women's lower pensions is that women are less involved in the labour market. We are also aware that there are high rates of sick leave in various professions. This applies especially to women who work with people and often experience stress when wrong demands are made and efficiency is measured in minutes rather than in quality. Pensions are also reduced for insured persons from Försäkringskassan. It is a group that continues to increase as mental illness has increased, especially in women. Then there's age discrimination. It creates difficulties for older people, for example, to get a new job if they lose their job for one reason or another. The Swedish Democrats look forward with excitement to the report from the Delegation for the promotion of older workers coming on 1 October 2020. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Pensions Group was established in 2007 and has been updated. It is strange that it has not been re-formed since the parliamentary landscape has changed and that a relatively small group in favour of the entire Social Security Committee has not communicated to those who are not allowed to be involved in what has been discussed and decided. Should not the group be parliamentary, that is to say that everyone in the Social Security Committee in office participates?
i-c9531e61da05864a-611	Madam President, I would like In 1994 we laid the foundations for today's pension system. It is financially stable, but problems may arise for the individual. In 1998, Parliament took the final decision, raising the age limit for the right to remain in employment from 65 to 67 years. However, the idea was to continue to open up for people to work higher up in their ages. This would mean a lot. A month ago, I heard in a lecture that if we were to raise the average age of retirement by one year, that would give 22 billion in the public purse. Should we lower the age for when young people go out into work by one year, that would give 9 billion in the public purse. It is therefore a question of a lot of money, and it could be used to support those who are unable and able to work higher up the age bracket. The Senior Labour Delegation was mentioned, and I am the ambassador for it. The delegation has just published a publication by Lisa Laun and Mårten Palme, Can seniors work longer? If you read in writing, the answer is yes, because today you have so much better health than you had in the 1970s. It is from that time forward that we have good studies of how our health has developed. Lisa Laun and Mårten Palme ask which obstacles are in the way of raising the chronological age limit. Well, there are rules and standards on the labour market, and that with standards lies precisely the ageism, the age discrimination that has been mentioned in a couple of today's speeches on how year-rich people work in the labour market. I would like to see researchers come in to see what it means that more and more years are still in existence despite the fact that we have this age limit. Now we're starting a business. I've been to a number of senior fairs, and at the last one, there were three temporary agencies set up by seniors who used seniors in their workforce. These companies grow so creaks, and those who work there greatly. They continue working on their professional skills as a base and can work as much as they want, perhaps not all week or a certain number of hours a day, but they have flexible working hours. They find it fun to continue working, and they are proud of what they do. Why, then, is it so difficult to change the age limit? It's been hard for a long time. In 1952, Ivar Lo-Johansson, as I mentioned earlier, wrote a book about Old Age Sweden. He saw how bad people felt being forced out of the labour market to retire. He suggested creating the old-age professions for these people, because everything is better than being forced into passivity. In 1963 came the Social Democrat Gustav Möller, who was rather angry that he had to leave the Riksdag. He had just turned 70, and then he was too old to be here as a Member of Parliament. He did an investigation called the Möller Committee, and it came up with the same proposal that the Pensions Group is now doing and that the investigations that have come quite recently have. In 1976, the retirement age was reduced from 67 to 65 without asking people how they viewed it. It was a rather rapid political decision. In 1981, at the National Board of Health and Welfare, where I was in charge at the time, we found that being forced to retire creates ill health among those who suffer from the compulsion. In 1982 the World Health Organisation said the same thing: to open up the labour market to those who want and can continue working because it is a health risk to be forced away. Then I can recite a number of years to, but I won't, for time winning. But we must now take courage and raise the chronological age limit, because it is an important signal to society that we value years-rich people, what they represent and the resource they represent. However, I have read in the newspapers, no later than today or yesterday, about trade unions that are just against, against, against. The social partners are not in favour of making these changes, but I think that here in the Swedish Parliament we should have the courage to open up the labour market to those who want and can continue in the workplace, for this also benefits those who are no longer able to do so. We'll get a better economy. In previous posts today, I talked about the working environment and that at the same time we need to invest in skills and development. The speech was about the development of the field of occupational medicine, which is now taking on a fading existence. But I think I should concentrate on this with the age limit. There is much more to be said, Madam President, but, as I said earlier, there are more committees that will be able to make it before 2.30 p.m. Twenty-three tonight.
i-c9531e61da05864a-623	Madam President, I would like We are getting healthier and living longer and longer in Sweden. That in itself is incredibly positive. Today, many live an active life much longer than previous generations have been able to. The fact that the pension is now lower as a proportion of the salary for each year that is 65 is basically due to the fact that we are living longer and the contributions to the system for many years have not been listed and have remained unchanged for quite a long period. The same amount of money should simply be enough for a longer life as a pensioner. For the Green Party, long-term financial sustainability of the pension system is important, so that it becomes stable and provides a predictable pension on the day it is time to start taking it out. Thanks to the increased freshness, many people want to work longer. That is why we in the Pensions Group believe that it is reasonable to make a certain increase in the retirement age, which should take place in stages so that those who are going to become pensioners have plenty of time to plan their pension. Madam President, I would like There is an opposing trend towards this positive picture, because while the population as a whole is getting older and healthier, many, not least women in health care, are unable to work full-time until retirement. When they fall in working hours, they receive lower income and a lower pension. It is not reasonable that you should be punished with a lower pension when you have worked hard in Swedish welfare or, for that matter, lost working time to take care of your family, whether it is sick parents or to make the everyday family puzzle go together. We in the Green Party are always pushing questions about increased equality, and it does not arise by itself when the pension is approaching. We must have greater equality in all areas, not least in terms of wages and to the extent that we work. But they hit women's economy and living conditions harder as we get older. That is why we in the Green Party in the election movement pushed the proposal to introduce the possibility for older people in welfare to go down in working time but still retain full pay. We want the state to spend money so that you can go down in working time to 80 or 90 % while maintaining pay. The differences between men and women are very great when it comes to pensions. We do not want to stand by the sideline and see another generation of women become poor pensioners even though they have worked a whole life. In the latest, the Pensions Group has focused on economic equality among pensioners, and this is important. With regard to the reforms that have been made to improve the financial situation of pensioners, we have focused on those who are in the toughest situation, which is mostly women. That is why we want to increase the guarantee pension, which is now being implemented. We in the Green Party do not just want economically sustainable pensions. We also want our pension money to be invested in a way that contributes to sustainable development throughout the system. We want to gradually tighten up the rules and follow them up by, for example, strengthening sustainability requirements and reviewing AP funds' compliance with the Paris Agreement. The ownership associated with fossil energy has decreased sharply in recent years, and new legislation to tighten the systems based on sustainability aspects is in place. Without the Green Party in the Pensions Group, this would not have been the case. But we really can't sit back. A long-term functioning pension system is incredibly important. With our model, we have both stability and an ability to make changes. We must continue to work for long-term sustainable pensions that are good for the earth, with the challenges we see with rapidly disappearing biodiversity and climate crisis, but also to give our hard-working population a pension on which to live.
i-c9531e61da05864a-634	Madam President, I would like The budgetary process for this year can probably be perceived as quite incomprehensible to many. It may therefore be appropriate to highlight what we are debating today. The budget on which Sweden is governed today is the budget that the Moderates and Christian Democrats presented to the Riksdag and received support for at the end of last year. What we are discussing now is an amending budget for this year, in which the government base S, MP, C and L proposes a number of changes to the budget decided by Parliament last autumn. Most of the proposals in the amending budget are marginal, but two issues stand out. This concerns the funding of the Equality Agency and the Delegation against segregation. The proposals in the amending budget mean that these appropriations will no longer be used for the decommissioning of these authorities, but rather for the continuation of activities. On the moderate side, we, together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, reserve ourselves against this decision, and I therefore call for reservation 1. Madam President, I would like In 2008, the Alliance merged a number of authorities, including the Equality Ombudsman, into a new discrimination authority. An authority dealing with all types of equal treatment and discrimination issues alongside the department responsible is sufficient. Almost all authorities already have work on gender equality as an explicit objective in their directives. From the reserveers' side, we believe that active gender equality work must be carried out within all relevant authorities in order to have an impact. Setting up a special agency on gender equality can have the opposite effect by side-ordering and sub-prioritising the work of other authorities and other actors. We are also opposed to the relocation of well-functioning activities that has taken place to the new authority. In order to achieve greater equality, reforms and efforts are needed in all areas – that more women can support themselves, that women's security is taken seriously, that the increase in sex offences in recent years is met with strong measures, that boys can succeed as well as girls, that health care treats men and women equally, that companies and trade unions counteract inappropriate wage differences and, not least, that public employers create reasonable working conditions and working hours in health and care professions. In the current state budget, the Moderates and Christian Democrats have done a number of important things for equality rather than starting new symbolic authorities. We made a major effort on the judiciary with more policemen and tougher efforts and penalties for honour crimes. We also used some of the money released at the closure of the Equality Agency to strengthen the work against honour crimes. Unlike the Social Democrats and the Green Party, we also reduced taxes on pensioners with the lowest pensions, mostly women who worked part-time in the public sector. We also reduced taxes on low-income earners. We also invested 5 billion extra in municipalities and county councils – welcome additions that can make it possible to hire more in areas such as health care and care for the elderly. These are professions where many women testify to a harsh working environment and burn-out due to insufficient staffing. This type of concrete action means more than setting up new authorities. Madam President, I would like Segregation is not solved either through delegations. Segregation is counteracted by reforms that make more people go to work, that more learn Swedish and that more people graduate with full grades. As with gender issues, integration issues are, in our opinion, so important that they cannot be delegated to a single authority. The risk is that other parts of society will then become less ambitious in their work to counteract segregation. We therefore believe that the Delegation against segregation should also be phased out.
i-c9531e61da05864a-642	Madam President, I would like Free and independent media, along with freedom of expression, are an important cornerstone of a democracy. We Social Democrats see it as self-evident that we should provide the best conditions for citizens to have access to information, debate and culture that is comprehensive and of good quality. How the Swedish people share media and literature has changed rapidly in recent years. Many people now read the daily newspaper or book in digital form on their iPhone or in their iPad. You listen to books instead of reading, for example, on your way to work, on your walk, or when you put on in your garden. Access to the media and literature has increased significantly, and that is good. However, what has not followed and hindered the market is VAT or VAT, as we usually say, for digital publications. VAT is currently 6 per cent for printed publications and 25 per cent for digital publications. The Social Democratic-led government has for a long time been pushing the issue within the EU that VAT should be 6% also on digital publications. And in November last year there was finally a change in the VAT directive which now makes this change possible. Today's report, which deals with the government's draft supplementary amending budget for 2019, proposes that this amendment should enter into force on 1 July this year. This is a good thing, and it is a very welcome message. It will make it easier for many newspapers and news pages to continue to offer an investigation and independent journalism that is such an important part of a democracy. But it will also make it easier for the book market to grow and thus promote access to literature. Madam President, I would like The other elements that we are dealing with in this report relate to the change in the use of appropriations for the Equality Agency and the Delegation against segregation. The changed purpose of the funding means that the agency will no longer be wound up, which was the result when the Swedish Democrats' and Christian Democrats' budget for 2019 was voted through in this House last autumn with the support of the Swedish Democrats. Instead, the appropriations may now be used for the management tasks of each authority. In addition, they receive increased resources for the activities via the spring change budget that the government submitted to the Riksdag on 10 April. In today's report, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have a common reservation rejecting the proposal for the modified use of the grant. They write that they continue to support previous decisions to phase out these activities on the grounds that active gender equality work must be carried out within all relevant authorities in order to have an impact and that segregation should be counteracted through reforms that make more people go to work, that more people learn Swedish and that more people pass the school. The purpose of the Gender Equality Agency has never been to replace gender equality work in other agencies and organisations. The authorities' mission has been precisely to monitor, analyse, coordinate and provide support with the aim of achieving gender equality policy objectives. But they can also, through their work, contribute to the Government and we here in Parliament getting a better basis to be able to take a position on the orientation and formulation of gender equality policy. Unlike the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, we believe that the work on gender equality and equality needs to be strengthened. But these three parties have never held this high, even if they sometimes try to give this picture. When it comes to concrete policies, they always think that equality and equality should be solved by themselves or by tax cuts, which we know they do not. An active gender equality policy is needed, and the establishment of a gender equality authority is part of this work. We Social Democrats will never sit back as long as there are men who practice violence against women, as long as women work on average four and a half hours free of charge per week compared to their male colleagues, as long as women have worse conditions in the labour market, as long as there are large differences in health between men and women and as long as there is trafficking and more. As long as these injustices and vulnerability persist, we will continue our work to achieve a more equal and equal society. The Delegation against segregation and the special money for municipalities could have made it possible to improve conditions for more people through early intervention for young people, through security work in neighbourhoods or to create cooperation to get more people into work. But even this money wiped out the Moderates and Christian Democrats in their budget. The moderates' interpretation of their own slogan that was launched in the elections – Equal for All – is clearly just empty words without any ambition to create better conditions for those who need it most. No, for them tax cuts are still more important than investing in better conditions and opportunities for all. Madam President, I would like With today's report, these authorities can now continue to operate rather than be phased out. Madam President, I would like Finally, I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-c9531e61da05864a-655	Madam President, I would like Gunilla Carlsson listed many things you need to do to strengthen both gender equality and integration. But my question is: how many new authorities, Commissions and coordinators do the Social Democrats think we need to have in order to solve the tasks that the government does not have the political power to tackle in substance? You can't solve everything with a bunch of new authorities. That's not how you solve social problems. Social problems are solved by making concrete proposals, concrete reforms and concrete investments in real things. In my speech, I pointed out a wide range of things that we did in our budget precisely to strengthen equality, to strengthen women on low incomes and to strengthen women on low incomes and on low pensions. That's what we put money into. We invested money in measures against, for example, honour violence. We took money that was released from the Equality Agency. You cut the police instead of your budget, even though we know that we need more police and that we need more resources from the police precisely to tackle honour violence and other crime in society. But you choose to invest money in government agencies. I don't understand what problems you're solving with that.
i-c9531e61da05864a-659	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson! What you did was you cut taxes by 20 billion. You reduced taxes on those who are in the best position, while we want to use our common resources to ensure that people get into work, that education is provided and that we have a good employment service that ensures that people get the help and support they need. You also made major changes by pulling millions away from, for example, the Public Employment Service. You talk so nicely about how we can get people into work, but right now there is actually a situation where a lot of people may not get that help through Arbetsförmedlingen. As I said in my speech, the idea is not that only the Gender Equality Agency should work on gender issues; all agencies and organisations should do so. On the other hand, we saw that there was not an integrated approach to gender equality issues, and that is exactly what this authority should be working on. It will ensure that we get good input and that we can achieve the gender equality policy objectives. It's one way to use an authority. But they are not the ones who are going to carry out the gender equality work – we need to do this on a broad front with several different initiatives and several different reforms.
i-c9531e61da05864a-661	Madam President, I would like Yes, Gunilla Carlsson, we lowered the tax, and we lowered it more for pensioners than you suggested. We reduced it for all pensioners, including those with the lowest incomes, which you did not propose. I was on Friday and visited two employment offices at home in my constituency to listen a little bit to their situation. They are extremely frustrated that the government does not care at all about what is now happening at the Employment Service: the slaughter of half of the employment offices without offering anything else. There's nothing else in place. We are quite much in agreement politically that we are going to redo Arbetsförmedlingen in essence, and that is a good thing. But you cannot start by slaughtering the entire Employment Service and closing all the offices before there is something else in place. When we saved SEK 400 million at Arbetsförmedlingen it was a normal cyclical adjustment. What is happening now is the dismissal of 4,500 people. It has nothing whatsoever to do with our budget cutback, which was a cyclical adjustment of operations, something that has been done in all the booms of time. So what is happening now is an adaptation to the January agreement. The Director-General of the Employment Service himself says that he had made these cuts quite regardless of what is in the M-KD budget. He does this because he knows that you basically want to close down the entire Employment Service. But now it means closing half of the employment offices without anything else instead of the unemployed. It is extremely irresponsible by the government. This is not the way to deal with an authority that has the important role of the Public Employment Service. Then they may have their flaws, but you have to do this in the right order. I repeat: the government has no political power to solve social problems. Instead, we will have more authorities, more Commissions and more coordinators. It doesn't solve social problems, unfortunately.
i-c9531e61da05864a-667	Madam President, I would like This is wonderful. This is where Jan Ericson stands in the Parliament's pulpit after he has decided on a 400 million reduction in the grant to Arbetsförmedlingen. As he said in his speech, it is the bourgeois budget, presented by M and KD and supported by SD, which is working in society today. And then he's standing here criticizing that the government doesn't have a plan! What a plan Jan Ericson and the Moderates had when they presented their budget in the form of a napkin sketch and said: Now we are withdrawing money from the Arbetsförmedlingen! I think this is irresponsible. What was the plan for Arbetsförmedlingen? Then Jan Ericson can even write on Twitter that he has made a visit to Arbetsförmedlingen in Kinna for example and that it is so terrible that they need to close their office. That is precisely the result of the budget that Jan Ericson has been sitting here in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament and pushing through. This is what I call irresponsible. With regard to pensions, I would like to say that it is Jan Ericson and his party who have ensured that we have received this unfair pensioner tax. That a pensioner should pay more in tax than an employee does is the result of Jan Ericson's policy. We have gradually increased pensions. We have narrowed the tax gap between those who work and those who are pensioners, because we Social Democrats see that the pension is part of a salary that has previously been worked on. You shouldn't have to tax more for what you get in retirement than for what you get in pay.
i-c9531e61da05864a-670	Madam President, I would like There will be an exciting debate in this late hour. We will hear in the debate how, in fact, all other parties pretend that we would be drowned by taxes from the European Parliament should the EU be allowed to decide on taxes by a qualified majority. We will hear parties going up here and perhaps talking warmly about climate policy, but still screwing up what could be one of the most effective ways to ensure that the whole of Europe gets a climate policy worthy of the name. Madam President, I would like This proposal from the European Commission is about a step-by-step approach – that is to say, several steps – being able to use qualified majority voting to introduce taxation. I could share the concerns of the other parties in here if it were indeed the case that someone thought that the EU would have unlimited opportunities to introduce whatever taxes it wanted. But it's not like that. We in the Liberals believe that it is reasonable for the European Union to be able to introduce, for example, a carbon tax. It is therefore a question of meeting perhaps the greatest and most important political issue of our time with a working instrument. The other parties make an ambitious climate policy at European level impossible with their policies. Madam President, I would like The Left Party spends quite a lot of time in the debate ahead of the European elections trying to make it sound like they are in favour of a climate tax or a carbon tax at European level. They're not. The policy of the Left Party is a weak environmental tax. They do not want to allow the EU to take such decisions by qualified majority, which would probably allow for a carbon tax at European level. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats go to elections to make the EU fit for purpose again. I wonder: How many degrees of temperature increase on this earth is enough? What do the Christian Democrats think? Do they think it is right to increase the temperature, as we see now, with large heat waves, droughts, floods and human lives going to waste? In the Middle East, drought and famine led to the establishment of the Islamic State or Daish. Is it perhaps two degrees of temperature that the Christian Democrats think is appropriate? It would mean even more severe hurricanes, even more undergrowth and worse harvests. Or is it perhaps four degrees that the Christian Democrats think is appropriate? Then we may have to reconsider what human civilization is at all because climate change will pose such massive problems. Madam President, I would like Carbon dioxide is one of those things that moves across national borders. This means that political solutions also need to operate across national borders. When it comes to the climate, you cannot sit here in the Swedish Parliament and beat your chest and just talk about the things we are going to do in this House. That's good. Sweden is going to do a lot of things. But we also need to ensure that the European Union really gets the muscle to deal with climate change. It is then necessary to be able to decide on, for example, a carbon tax by qualified majority. Otherwise, Madam President, we are working to make an ambitious climate policy at European level impossible. But, someone says, the Liberal proposal is impossible. It cannot be implemented in the European Union. I am sure there have been many who are watching this debate – if anyone is doing so in this late hour – heard in the general debate. Madam President, I would like I would like to remind the other parties in this House that it is now 74 years since the streets of Stockholm were filled with people celebrating the impossible. Stockholm's streets and streets of capital cities, cities and villages all over our continent and all over the world were filled with people celebrating that peace had come to Europe and to the world. Since then, we have experienced nothing but peace in the countries of the European Union. In fact, Madam President, the impossible can be possible with a little political will. We can maintain peace in nations that for all centuries have had war after war. Madam President, I would like Why, then, should we not be able to introduce a European CO2 tax? That's ridiculous. I am sorry, but it is ridiculous to say that it would not be possible to introduce a European CO2 tax if we can keep the peace as long as we have managed to keep it in Europe. Madam President, I would like I think that we should be inspired by the people who today fill our streets and squares, fight and stand up for a better climate policy. Let us be inspired and get some political power from them. With the inspiration of their commitment, let us ensure that the EU can decide on a carbon tax by qualified majority. With that, I would like to endorse our reservation of motives.
i-c9531e61da05864a-682	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal that the Parliament should add the opinion to the document. This debate is about a review by the Committee on Taxation of the European Commission's Communication on Taxation, in which the Commission proposes a change to the decision-making procedure in tax matters. The Commission wants a roadmap for a step-by-step transition from unanimous decision-making between countries to qualified majority voting. The Social Democrats are strongly critical of and do not support the Commission's proposal. We believe that the changed tax decision-making system means that power in one central area for each Member State is transferred from national to European level. We do not support the transition to qualified majority voting in the tax field either in general or in individual cases. It is important to respect the powers of the Member States in the field of taxation as well as the role of national parliaments in decisions on tax matters. Unanimity secures the influence and authority of the government and parliament over tax matters. It is important that each Member State should be able to safeguard its welfare and competitiveness by being able to decide whether to levy taxes and make appropriate use of tax revenues. Through simplified revision procedures, changes can be made without Treaty changes in the EU, and that is what the European Commission is proposing. Madam President, I would like The Commission argues that several important tax proposals have not been adopted as a result of unanimity requirements and have resulted in a loss of tax revenue for the Member States. The Commission did not provide an impact assessment on the basis of the data. The review points out that developments in the tax area over recent years show that Member States have the ability to agree on tax matters. Since 2015, a number of new pieces of legislation have been agreed to increase tax transparency, combat tax abuse, combat VAT fraud and reform VAT rules for e-commerce. With regard to a change in the direction advocated by the Commission, national parliaments have an important role to play in the formal process. Any initiative of the European Council on such a change of decision-making shall be forwarded to national Parliaments. Where an objection by a national Parliament is notified within six months of transmission, no decision on the amendment shall be adopted. In the absence of objections, the European Council may adopt the decision. Sweden today, like other Member States, has the right to decide when to exercise the right of veto. It is a protection for an individual state to defend its interests. National sovereignty for tax matters is crucial for Sweden's competitiveness and the financing of welfare.
i-c9531e61da05864a-691	Madam President, I would like I want to start by being clear. I am a strong European friend. I want to see a strong Europe in which free trade, the climate and the fight against cross-border crime are the focus. These are important issues that we in Sweden cannot handle on our own, but which are best resolved through good and strong EU cooperation. Having said that, Madam President, I would also like to make it clear that I and the Moderates strongly reject the Commission's communication on changing the decision-making process for EU tax policy. It is a communication that ultimately means giving the EU tax rights. It is a tax law that not only threatens Sweden's self-determination and the legitimacy of cooperation. It also jeopardises Sweden's influence. This is how many of our citizens would appreciate paying their tax money not only to the Tax Agency but also directly to the EU. The fact that the Commission chooses to call the proposal more effective and democratic decision-making is on the verge of ridiculous. The question is: more effective for whom, or more democratic for whom? If the proposal were to become a reality, the EU would embark on a path that would greatly reduce the autonomy of nations and create a democratic deficit. It is a proposal aimed at solving Europe's problems, not those of the Member States. I would guess that is perhaps why impact assessments shine with their absence, not least as regards, for example, the loss of tax revenue. The Commission argues that a move to a qualified majority would not change the powers of the Member States or the EU in the field of taxation. In the next sentence, the Commission says that a transition to a qualified majority would give the EU – precisely that: the EU – the opportunity to decide quickly and effectively in the field of taxation, thus enabling Member States to face common challenges. I am sure that even a fifth grader would understand the Commission's ambitions: a reduction in national self-government and a democratic deficit. Madam President, I would like Over the past few years, we have dealt with many different proposals from the EU in the tax committee and in the Swedish parliament regarding tax reforms, not least to prevent tax evasion. It's about taxes being paid where they belong. We think that Moderates are good, although it may have been a bit too fast at times and doubtful whether certain decisions really lead to the desired result. Now the S Ocial Democrats have chosen to make this one of their election issues in the forthcoming EU elections. It is perhaps a little strange, as this work in many ways is already done. We have done so in agreement and with a broad majority in Parliament. It was a little parenthesis. Excuse me, Madam President. The fact that in recent years, after and in parallel with the introduction of the BEPS project, the Commission is threatening the introduction of European corporate tax, CO2 tax and a turnover-based tax on digital companies and the digital economy seems to me to be a complete lack of a sense of how our citizens and businesses perceive the legitimacy of the European Union. If power is transferred directly from the Member States to the EU, there is a great risk that confidence and the conditions for European cooperation will be destroyed. That is something I think would be devastating for a small, export-dependent country like Sweden. Madam President, I would like To meet the threats of an increasingly troubled world, cross-border organised crime, a slowdown in the economy, a poorly functioning immigration policy and serious environmental problems, a clearer focus on the EU's core mission is needed. It is therefore crucial, in the run-up to the forthcoming European elections, that all parties make clear what line they intend to take. The fact that seven out of eight parties today fully agree on this opinion is a good thing. However, it is worrying that the Liberals and some Socialist MEPs are working towards possibly granting the Union tax rights. In particular, it threatens the legitimacy and functioning of the entire cooperation. Those who open up EU taxes contribute to a historic transfer of power from Sweden to Brussels. It is in danger of becoming particularly serious for Sweden, which at present alone can block decisions but which, in a system of EU taxes, loses almost all influence. If tax law were to move to Brussels, it would be impossible for Swedish taxpayers to over-examine tax charges which, for example, Germany and France have agreed to push forward. With Brexit, these two countries have that power. How well adapted EU taxes would it be for Sweden, Sweden's citizens and Sweden's companies? Madam President, I would like Responsibility for and power over tax policy belongs in each Member State. The threat of supranational taxes jeopardises the conditions for the EU as a democratic and strong Union where jobs grow and competitiveness is secured.
i-c9531e61da05864a-702	Madam President, I would like This year we can celebrate the anniversary. In fact, it has been just 700 years since the signing of the Freedom Letter in 1319, which by some historians has also been called the Magna Carta of Sweden, or Sweden's first constitution. It shows how taxes are to be levied in Sweden. It is clear what tax revenue is to be used for and, not least, what is relevant in this debate: who is to participate in the decision. And those who, according to the letter of liberty, were to take part in the decision were Swedish chiefs, Swedish bishops and peasants from the assembly of each of the empire's bishops, which is the very definition of parliament, Madam President. The fact that all regions and all social classes are represented – that is the closest thing we could achieve to democracy in the 1300s. The letter of liberty also shows that these principles are old practice; they were thus old practice already 700 years ago. Based on this, there are also wordings in later constitutions such as that the age-old right of the Swedish people to self-tax is exercised by the nation's Estates alone in the general parliament. It's with taxes just like with the defense. It is usually said that each country has an army – its own or someone else's. Current taxation is so that every people is taxed – by themselves or by someone else. Unfortunately, in Sweden's history there are also examples of us being taxed by others. This was the case during the Kalmar Union when Sweden, as Gustav Vasa put it, was under strange lordship and kings. But Gustav Vasa broke with this madness and laid the foundation for our nation state on the ancient Swedish nationalist principle that we Swedes tax ourselves. No one else does. This principle persists until today. We can soon, in a few years' time, celebrate 500 years of unbroken self-taxation. But now the European Commission wants to introduce Union taxation. It wants to transfer even more power from Sweden to Brussels and re-introduce Union taxation – that the Swedish people should be taxed by others than ourselves. It might seem ridiculous, or even laughable, if it were not for a party in the Swedish parliament, the Liberals, to co-operate with the foreign gentlemen of today. They are working to ensure that Sweden – at the top of all the other misery that comes from the EU – will give up its tax rights to non-elected bureaucrats in Brussels, completely contrary to democratic principles. Nevertheless, the European Commission has chosen to formulate its proposal on the grounds that it wants to achieve more effective and democratic decision-making in EU tax policy. After all, it is often called effective when self-determination and democracy are to be curtailed. But the facts are also that when self-determination and democracy are curtailed, corruption and inefficiency increase. Madam President, I would like The historyless person risks repeating past mistakes. However, we can be pleased that there is still a broad majority in the Committee on Taxation, and probably in this House too, for continued Swedish self-determination in the field of taxation. I support the proposal of the Committee on Taxation in its opinion.
i-c9531e61da05864a-710	Madam President, I would like For years, we in the Center Party have been working towards a narrower but sharper EU, where issues of a cross-border nature that require joint action to strengthen wholes should be dealt with at EU level. Having said that, I would like to state clearly that this does not apply to tax matters. Madam President, I would like We can see how the Commission is trying to strengthen its role and take more power at the expense of Member States. We now see it in the Commission communication, which several before me have commented on here, which seeks to change the decision-making process for fiscal policy. The EU wants to see gradual transitions from unanimity to qualified majority voting. I think it is bad, and I find it remarkable. The proposal and the approach outlined by the Commission is a four-step proposal. It is thus trying to make the proposal more attractive. The four steps are taking more and more power, and the fourth step opens up the right of taxation on the part of the European Commission. It is clear that the changes in the system and structure outlined also mean that power is transferred to Brussels at the expense of the nation states and their elected elected assemblies. I am pleased that there is broad support in the Committee on Taxation for the strong criticism that we make in the report. We clearly say that it is important that the Member States' ability to introduce and maintain their own national tax rules is a principle that must be maintained and protected. With this, Madam President, in this late hour of debate, I would like to endorse the proposal made by the Committee on Taxation in its Opinion No 24 that the report be added to the file.
i-c9531e61da05864a-715	Madam President, I would like The Left is strongly critical of the Commission's proposal for changes in decision-making in the tax area. The decisions taken are determined by democratic processes, not by EU bureaucrats and big business lobbyists. The tax issue in this context is, of course, linked to the debate on the EU's long-term budget, a budget that sets out what the EU should do and does not do and how much these commitments should cost from our common assets. When over the years it has been shown that money and the rights of big business go before people and employees, these Commission proposals become more and more provocative. The Commission that is presenting this proposal is the same Commission that, instead of offering refugees protection, wants to fund increasingly armed border guards, military armaments and walls around our borders. Nowadays, not only are there armed border guards within the EU, but these are also allowed to enter other countries outside the EU to keep people on the run. Moreover, this method was supplemented by a financial and indecent refugee agreement with Turkey, which led to people fleeing from war and disasters making, and still doing, much longer and more dangerous journeys across the Mediterranean. Looking at the EU budget, there is a lack of interest in investing in lifesaving efforts on the Mediterranean. This has been done by organisations and by ordinary fishermen. In an interview with Doctors Without Borders, Tunisian fishermen testify that they still have children in their fishing nets. It says a lot about the EU's action towards the external borders. It says a lot about which Goliath we are dealing with. Therefore, no money at all should go to rearmament; it should go to a humane refugee policy and a dignified reception. It is through a solidarity-based refugee policy that we are putting death on the Mediterranean. Madam President, I would like The proposal is also from the same Commission that has long wanted the EU to have the right to collect its own tax. In this context, it goes against the influence and powers of the government and parliament over tax matters. We want, for example, in climate cooperation, the money to be returned to the Member States, not to the Commission. That is why we also need to prioritise. For example, we want to make the EU more climate-oriented. Here, the climate movement ranks us with top ratings, and that is mainly because we take the consequences of climate change seriously. There is a strong popular movement for a transition to a more sustainable society in the long term, and we should not accept that the fossil industry and its lobbyists should decide our future. Their power in Europe must be broken. It is the richest who by their power and way of life cause the greatest climate emissions. A fair climate policy ensures that those responsible for emissions pay the consequences, not those who are already hard hit by austerity and widening gaps. When a larger part of the economy goes to joint investment rather than paying for the luxury consumption of rich people, it becomes easier to reduce emissions. It is therefore only through left-wing politics that the transition can be sustainable and fair. Madam President, I would like New European cooperation is needed that puts people and the climate ahead of market interests, not more supranationality. The inequality between those who have and those who have not spread out, and we have seen how Europe treats people. It is a crude right-wing policy that would rather chase people on the run than tax evasion and who, during the financial crisis, choose to save the banks rather than ordinary people. It is a policy so crude that it was then free for investors and banks to withdraw their assets and capital, while ordinary workers were not allowed to withdraw their wages or pensions. Instead, they were given an economic straitjacket and more austerity that mainly affected women's dominated occupations and welfare. As I said earlier, this proposal is quite frankly provoked, and therefore the Commission should think carefully before it makes such proposals in the future.
i-c9531e61da05864a-724	Madam President, I would like The European Union is a success story. In 1945 Europe was in ruins. The war and the Holocaust left behind a continent that was bombed and torn apart. And it was not the first time that Europe had been torn apart by war. On the contrary, war is recurring in the history of Europe. There was therefore good reason to fear that it could happen again, that there could once again be war in Europe. This was the background to the gathering of Christian Democrats from several European countries to begin European cooperation, which eventually became the success story of the EU. For us Christian Democrats, it goes without saying that cooperation between the countries of Europe is absolutely essential for peace in Europe. That is why Europe is so vitally important to protect. That is why popular support for Europe is so vitally important. The popular legitimacy is great, but it is not obvious that it will always be that way just because it looks like that today. There are two things that are particularly important in maintaining the legitimacy of the European Union. The first is that the EU should be really good at what it should be doing: the issues that an individual country itself cannot work with and resolve effectively. It is about safeguarding freedom of movement and trade, about standing up for human rights in Europe and around the world, and about reducing climate-damaging emissions and stopping climate change. This is something that the EU should work with and be really good at. But there is also much that is best done at national level. Welfare issues, parental insurance and detailed plans are some examples. In fact, it is just as important that Europe does not interfere with these things as it is that Europe is really good at what it is going to do. Then there are things that lie in the borderland, Madam President. The issue we are debating today, taxation, is one. Europe will act as a single market. There is also a need for certain common tax rules. If individuals and businesses are to be able to act in all the countries of Europe, we cannot have a patchwork of tax systems, that goes without saying. But that is not what the debate is about. Instead, the debate is about how we should decide on taxes. Basically, the question is whether it is reasonable for the person living in Sweden to be taxed without the Riksdag and the Government having any say in this matter. From the Christian Democrats the answer is crystal clear: No! No one in Sweden should be able to be taxed without the Swedish Government and the Swedish Parliament having said yes to that. That's how it is today. Today's decision-making process in the tax field in the EU is precisely this because unanimity is required, that is to say that all countries support change. That should be the case in the future. However, although there is quite a lot of agreement on this in Parliament, as most speakers here have already said, there are those who want to change the way the EU works. The Liberals' Joar Forssell previously had a different view here. That climate policy would be more effective is the Liberals' argument for removing decision-making power from the Riksdag. Although it is fundamentally wrong, it is a worthy motive. Other players want to see other taxes. The European Commission wants to introduce supranational corporate tax. France wants a tax on financial transactions. And, as we in the Committee on Taxation know well, there are proposals for a tax on digital companies, a tax which we have unanimously opposed from the Swedish side. With a different decision-making procedure than unanimity, that tax would have been introduced a long time ago, no matter how much we in the tax committee had protested. That is what is fundamentally wrong. If a company or a resident of Sweden is to be taxed, the Swedish parliament must have said yes to this. Therefore, the current EU tax decision-making process, which requires unanimity, will continue to be maintained. I began by describing Europe as a success story. I did so because the Christian Democrats and, not least, I myself are warm friends of the European Union. And being someone's friend does not mean saying yes to everything that the friend makes up, quite the opposite. My best friends are the ones who can say to me in a sharp way, those who can say no, those who can stop me when I'm about to come up with something stupid. Similarly, we Europeans must say no to Europe when Europe is about to do something stupid. And the fact that EU taxes are decided without all EU states having to say yes to them is, to say the least, stupid because it risks the great, popular legitimacy of the EU. We say no to this because we are warm friends of the European Union.
i-c9531e61da05864a-736	Madam President! The Commission has made a proposal. Instead of agreeing with other countries, we now want a majority decision to be sufficient. It is believed that the closures would be more effective and that the various tax systems put the brakes on the way forward. It also states that it is easier to pursue a social policy if the EU has greater powers in the field of taxation. What the Commission does not, on the other hand, address is the aspect of democracy. Unfortunately, democracy is a sprawling, cumbersome and arduous work. When a lot of voices are going to hear that, it takes time. We in the Green Party had congress this weekend. To the difference from many other parties, all members of the Green Party are allowed to exercise. This means that we had about 300 movements to take a position on the set-to-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at-at. It took time. Some proposals may not have been in line with the party's policy, but we argued, votes were raised and some disagreed. It was not effective, but it was democratic. Paradoxically, the effectiveness of democracy can mean undermining it. Madam President, I would like There is a subject for which I am almost always prepared to make exceptions, and that is the environment. We are currently living in an ongoing climate crisis and a mass extinction of species. We need you to focus all political power on transforming the whole of society and making sure that our ekonomi fits within the planetary boundaries. However, giving the EU the opportunity to take tax from its citizens is not the way forward. There are two strong reasons for this. One, we don't think it's feasible. I have too little confidence that, for example, Hungary and Poland would like a common CO2 tax. Two: we do not want decisions on what taxes should be made in Brussels, but in Parliament. That is why we believe in introducing a minimum level of CO2 taxation within the EU, where tax revenues go back to the individual countries. Madam President, I would like The Green Party wants decisions to be taken as close to the citizens as possible. This applies not least to taxes. I am pleased that there is a consensus on this issue in committee and in committee, because cats are at the heart of democracy. We shall not help to increase the distance between citizens and Brussels. There are many areas where we can give our veto in tax policy. The right to levy taxes is now something the countries themselves govern, and that should continue to be the case. It is part of the countries' self-determination. The EU has a tendency to increase its own power, so Member States should be careful about what they allow. Since I want more democracy rather than centralisation, I agree with the committee's proposals.
i-c9531e61da05864a-744	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this late evening! We are now going to debate terrorism and efforts to prosecute illegal acts as well as to prevent them from happening. In recent years, terrorists have repeatedly attacked various targets in Europe. Sweden was also affected on 7 April 2017, as you know, with the terrible terrorist attack on Drottninggatan. Terrorism is a threat to our democracy and our way of life. That threat must be met with all its might. The Swedish Security Police describes that approximately 300 people have travelled from Sweden to Syria and Iraq to join IS. Almost half have returned. The media have recently reported that up to 800 prisoners of terror are present only in Syria, and some of these are most likely also Swedish citizens. Of course, the problems are not new, but they have escalated very quickly and very much. The National Centre for Terrorist Threat Assessment today points out that the main terrorist threat to Sweden is likely to come from Islamic-motivated terrorism. According to the Swedish Security Service, there are currently almost 3 000 threat actors in the violent extremist environments in Sweden. There are a number that have almost tenfolded in just seven years. Of these, about 2 000 are Islamic extremists. This is the background to today's debate – almost a tenfold increase in the number of threat actors in just seven years. It would have been possible to expect that Swedish legislation would have taken up this new reality in some way, but unfortunately that is not the case. Although Sweden is in many ways a fantastic country, we can see that this area is unfortunately particularly lagging behind. Swedish legislation continues to lag behind a wide range of other countries. Despite the fact that Sweden may be at the top of the whole of Europe per capita in terms of the number of people who have left Iraq and Syria to join an atrocious terrorist cult, the legislation lags behind. Both Norway and Denmark and Finland have come much further. For example, Norway already has legislation in place that criminalises participation in a terrorist organisation, which facilitates the management of the returnees. Madam President, I would like Six months have passed since the Security Service last called for legislation to lag behind and called for more effective instruments to combat terrorism. I say, most recently, that these problems have been well known for a long time, and the needs have been there for even longer than that. Both signal detection during pre-investigation as well as data storage and the ability to use secret data reading need to be in place as soon as possible. Otherwise, according to the authorities, there is a great risk that serious crime, including terrorism, cannot be prevented. We Moderates have presented several proposals in this important area for several years. Several of those proposals have also looked into the agreements we have made with the government, and that is, of course, positive. We have also been pursuing the issue of camera surveillance without authorisation for a long time, where, in addition to the legislation itself, financial contributions are also needed to enable the number of surveillance cameras to be extended in order to increase citizens' security. We want the Security Service to have and be able to use an opportunity to call every IS returnee to interrogation. Today, a preliminary investigation is required into a crime in which the person who has returned is implicated in the investigation. This means that both evidence and intelligence can be lost. In addition, penalties for terrorism-related crime need to be substantially tightened to both better reflect the seriousness of the crimes and put them in the context where they belong. The law on special immigration control should be amended so that foreign citizens who may be suspected of committing terrorist offences in Sweden can be expelled. There should also be clearer possibilities to keep such persons in custody or under surveillance. The law on foreign control is in great need of change in order to become more transparent and can be applied in more cases than today. We Moderates have also pointed out that Swedish citizenship should be withdrawn in cases where someone with dual citizenship committed a terrorist offence. Such opportunities do not exist in Sweden today. This distinguishes us from England, Denmark and Finland, for example. And I note that in Germany, for example, the German Social Democrats have now agreed to change the legislation so that this possibility will also be there. We Moderates want to introduce this possibility of withdrawing citizenship when someone acts in a way that harms Sweden's vital interests. This could include, for example, a person who has fought for a terrorist organisation or committed other terrorist offences. Madam President, I would like I also find it worrying that the proposals that have actually been presented recently – although I am pleased that they finally seem to come into place in some form – are often watered down. This applies, for example, to the regulation of data storage, where the government is undoubtedly at the bottom of what is possible, despite the fact that the regulatory framework actually allows for more far-reaching proposals with reference to national security. I can also note that both the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency in their referrals state that they believe that a more extensive storage obligation than the investigation has proposed would actually be compatible with EU law, particularly in the field of national security. Of the proposals that we put forward in the agreements 2015 and 2017, not everything is yet in place, despite the fact that we are now writing May 2019. The licensing obligation for police camera surveillance has still not been abolished. The police have still not had access to information from signal scanning, and secret data reading is still not possible. Associates with terrorist organisations have still not been criminalised. As far as the latter is concerned, it does not seem any better than that, sadly, it will be several more years before such legislation is in place. That is very regrettable – for Sweden's sake. Madam President, I would like Terrorism aims to spread terror and create divisions. It is a threat to free and open society. The threat from IS-returners – terrorists – is too serious to be prioritised. We must use the full power of our democracy to stop the violence and – to the extent possible – of course also to prosecute the returnees who come to Sweden for their committed crimes. We must also recognise the seriousness and do everything in our power to prevent and prevent future terrorist acts in Sweden and protect Swedish citizens from the heinous acts of terrorism. We Moderates, of course, support all our reservations, but for time winning, I would like to endorse only reservation No 8.
i-c9531e61da05864a-762	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I choose to endorse only reservation 11 on criminalising propaganda for terrorism. Madam President, I would like Violent extremism has increased in Sweden. The Security Service estimates that there are some 3 000 violent extremists in our country, where for a few years the violent Islamists have gone from about a hundred to 2 000 people today. Since the red-green government has left the door open for IS-returners, there will be about 100 more in that category in the next few years. Although the violent left-wing and right-wing environments vary in their activities and do not pose the greatest threat of terrorism, new legislation is still needed to counteract all political associations that plan, organise and carry out criminal acts in order to achieve their political objectives. This may apply to organisations such as the Nordic Resistance or the organisation that the Left Party advertises on its EU election poster, Antifascist action, but also violent Islamic networks or organisations. There is therefore a need for a new criminalisation in which prosecutions can be brought against persons who have been involved in planning and organising criminal acts or who have otherwise been a crucial part of this. Such a kind of criminalisation was presented by the Swedish Democrats back in 2012. What we then called participation in a criminal organisation is based on exactly the same principle as the anti-terrorism proposal with the criminalisation of precisely participation in terrorist organisations. Madam President, I would like The principle of criminalisation in the form of a participating crime has thus been pursued by the Swedish Democrats since 2012, and I believe that the Christian Democrats pushed the issue even before the Swedish Democrats entered the Riksdag. Now the lack of such legislation is the very reason why 150 returning IS terrorists live freely in our country and another 100 can return without any real possibility for the Swedish judiciary to prosecute any of them. This is despite the fact that we know that everyone has travelled with intent to support and participate in the terrible and inhumane terror wars of the Islamic State. I note that the blame for Sweden's situation lies heavily and alone with the Red-Green Government. Madam President, I would like It is not just a participating crime that is missing from Swedish law. In the report we have a number of reservations about tightening up the fight against terrorism, including banning the spread of terrorist propaganda. We know that a key to the great advance that the Islamic State could make was precisely through the successful spread of Islamic State terror propaganda. For the Swedish Democrats, it is obvious that terrorists should be severely punished for their crimes, but it is also important to prevent radicalisation and recruitment. Under the Recruitment Act, it is forbidden to call for terrorist offences, but we believe that there are gaps where similar acts can be carried out without criminal liability. Here, Sweden can be inspired by other countries, such as France, which has more extensive criminalisation. Madam President, I would like The single most important measure to stop the fastest growing extremism is about keeping track of immigration policy. Social-liberal governments have welcomed terrorists, violent extremists and radical Muslims throughout the 21st century. Many of them have even acquired Swedish citizenship, even though they hate Sweden and our way of living in Sweden. That is the very reason why the violent Islamism has been the fastest growing group in the same period. To overcome this, there must, of course, be a policy that does not welcome terrorists to our country. We should definitely not distribute Swedish citizenship to foreigners who hate our way of life. But such self-evident things are faced with political opposition from social-liberal parties – perhaps not so that they want terrorists to come here, but that's the effect of that policy. Madam President, I would like The law on special foreign control must also be tightened up. The Red-Green Government intends to amend that law, but it has not stated that it is prepared by amendment to keep terrorists off our streets. Foreigners who are considered terrorist threats by the Security Service can thus be detained and expelled from our country. However, if they cannot be expelled, for example because they are at risk of immutable treatment in their home country, the government, with several parties, wants to allow them to reside freely in our society. The only way the government wants to tighten up the law is for electronic surveillance to be used against foreigners who pose a threat of terror. I can only say that electronic surveillance had in no way prevented Rakhmat Akilov from hijacking a truck and carrying out the terrorist act that could have been prevented by other political decisions. The Swedish Democrats are so far the only party that wants to change the law on special foreign control so that foreigners who pose a threat of terror will remain in custody until a deportation can take place. The Swedish Democrats are the only party that continues to want foreign terrorists to be expelled for life. Today, with a social-liberal conscience, they can be expelled from the country for a limited period of time and then be welcome back to Sweden. Madam President, I would like With the Red Green Government, supported by the Liberals and the Center Party, more terrorists will be admitted to Sweden and more terrorists will be granted Swedish citizenship. It is this policy with the very result that has arisen for each year that those parties have had political influence in our country. Let me do this, Einstein; it's madness to expect a different result when it's the same political gang that runs. Madam President, I would like In fact, the Swedish Democrats were the only party to point out the violent Islamism as Sweden's greatest threat more than ten years ago. It was then when you other parties competed for who could create the most immigration to Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats were right, and the Swedish Democrats are still Sweden's clearest guarantee of truly combating terrorism.
i-c9531e61da05864a-776	Madam President, I would like On September 11, 2001, during the terrorist attacks in the United States, I was seven years old, but they will remain in my memory for the rest of my life. I remember exactly where and how I and my family received the extremely tragic news, despite my young age. Since then, we have experienced terrorism in different ways and in different guises. IS has put fear in a whole world and done deeds around the world, not least in Syria. Madam President, I would like Manchester, Paris, Brussels – the list of terrorist attacks in the world and Europe is far too long. Today it is on the day two years and a month since we suffered the terror here in Sweden, here in Stockholm. That's enough. The Terror must be stopped once and for all. Resources, strong measures and political cooperation will be required both here in Parliament and at international level. In the fight against terrorism, we must work together and stand united. The Center Party has twice, in 2015 and 2017, entered into agreements with the Moderates, Christian Democrats, Liberals, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats to jointly increase the pace of counter-terrorism efforts and strengthen our ability to withstand possible future terrorist attacks. Much of what was included in the first agreement has now been implemented. Parts have not yet been implemented, and for this the government deserves criticism. At the same time, challenges have been encountered along the way to the full implementation of the agreement, but I would like to stress the importance of the fact that we still have good talks and broad agreements on combating terrorism in the future. The issue of combating terror is too important for political bickering. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has long wanted to see more stringent terrorist legislation. We have pushed for the criminalisation of links with terrorist organisations, the support of terrorism and the financing of participation in terrorist activities. Extremism, terrorism and anti-democratic currents must be countered on several levels. Terrorist crimes must be severely punished. It is good that the government has recently presented proposals that are steps in the right direction, but unfortunately it has taken far too long to get some of the legislation in place. Even more needs to be done in order for Sweden to have a stronger preparedness. Among other things, the Center Party wants to see a national resource team working operationally with returning terrorists and radical environments and a ban on public funds going to organisations that spread violent messages. Säpo must also have sufficient resources and tools. In addition, we need increased cooperation between civil society, schools, Säpo, police and municipalities and other relevant organisations and administrations. Conflicts should be resolved with democratic decisions. Supporting terrorism can never be accepted in a democratic justice society and should be criminalised to show how seriously we view the progress of terrorist groups in much of the world. The Center Party wants the criminalisation of supporting terrorism to include, among other things, sending money or weapons, helping with financial support or helping terrorist groups to develop propaganda or other administrative matters. To meet the threat of extreme forces, the Center Party wants to strengthen protection against extremism. Children and young people are at risk of being influenced by these forces and must be given stronger protection from both school and home. Therefore, in order to support young people, school should contact the home if a child shows signs of extremism and radicalisation. There is a need for clearer instructions for teachers and other school staff to contact their parents if they are concerned, for example, about the radicalisation of the child and increased help for parents seeking support when they see signs that their children are at risk of radicalisation. Unfortunately, we have seen that terror has no limits. Tomorrow the polling stations will open up to the EP elections, and cross-border cooperation is crucial in the fight against terrorism. The EU is an important arena for us to be able to strengthen the fight against terrorism together. Efforts against threats of impact need to increase both in Sweden and in the rest of the EU. EU countries can and will cooperate to counter terrorist attacks, for example by sharing intelligence on potentially dangerous persons and by stopping arms smuggling. Agreements are needed as regards the obligation of EU countries to provide information on arms smuggling or radicalised persons when other EU countries are involved. The EU can be better here. In conclusion, I would like to say that, of course, we in the Center Party support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I choose to apply only for reservation 4.
i-c9531e61da05864a-786	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Center Party here says that terrorism is too important for political bickering. I'm willing to agree. That's it. This is an issue where not only the government and the former Alliance have had successful discussions and good proposals; many of the proposals that the government is now making have been presented by the Swedish Democrats many years ago. If the Red-Green Government continues not to do enough to combat terrorism, is the Center Party prepared to negotiate with the Swedish Democrats to work out better proposals with sufficient support in parliament to make it an announcement to the government, or is the Center Party prepared to yield to what is itself called political bickering?
i-c9531e61da05864a-788	Madam President, I would like The Center Party will continue to make strong proposals to combat terrorism. We will be part of the talks that have started in 2015 and 2017 and that continue. But I do not think it is a gossip when I say that the Center Party will not talk with the Swedish Democrats. We will continue to vote on our political proposals in this House.
i-c9531e61da05864a-789	Madam President, I would like Then I note that what was said in the speaker's chair was purely hypocritical. The Center Party is more fixated on its own image not to be stained, as it were, with the Swedish Democrats. If it would take a majority together with the Swedish Democrats and a conversation to arrive at the necessary legislation to combat terrorism, the Center Party says no. There we have the Center Party in the political debate and in political decision-making against terrorism. Thank you for that clarification.
i-c9531e61da05864a-791	Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone can say that the Center Party has backed up from making an announcement to the government, not least us in the Committee on Justice. I think we are the committee that makes the most announcements of everyone in this House. No one can ever doubt that we will fight with the government where we do not agree. That also applies to the terror. I hope, however, that we can leave the outer border parties at home and that the other six parties can continue to have broad agreements on this extremely important issue.
i-c9531e61da05864a-793	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on terrorism. However, before I go into some of the proposals that we Christian Democrats have put forward, I think it might be appropriate to mention some of what I and we Christian Democrats think the government has failed to do. In fact, Sweden was a member of the UN Security Council in 2017 and 2018. During that time, the war against IS was going on. As early as 2016, a UN group investigating the horrors of the war in Syria confirmed that IS committed genocide. Genocide is to be treated under the genocide convention either in the country where the crimes have been committed or in an international tribunal. The Christian Democrats have always advocated an international tribunal because IS crimes have been committed in several countries and in countries where there may be suspicion that there will not be a legally secure process. Unfortunately, we can see that the government has not acted at all on this issue in previous years. Instead, there has been a long time of silence on the part of the government, and over the years there have been no active steps or initiatives to punish these people. Only now that IS is falling apart does the government act – perhaps mainly through debate articles. One might say that the years in the Security Council were wasted. That IS would fall apart sooner or later, many fought for. Among other things, we Christian Democrats proposed that Sweden should help combat IS with, for example, JAS planes. The government wasn't interested in that. We wanted to seize passports from so-called returnees, and we wanted to condemn those who fought for IS for treason. Unfortunately, the government wasn't interested in that either. We Christian Democrats have been pushing for decades for a ban on association with terrorist organisations, but the government has not been interested. After many years of silence, an investigation was finally delivered that would ban association. The intention of the investigation was that the proposal would enter into force on 1 August this year, long after the fall of IS and several years after the time when the investigation should have come. The government can't deliver even this. A proposal is being made by the Law Council to the effect that it is unconstitutional. This is what happens when the government in question fights terrorism: it takes a long time, and once you do something you do it wrong. Madam President, I would like A significant problem that can be expected to grow in the future is that foreign power is trying to influence Sweden. What may be most discussed right now are various forms of Russian disinformation campaigns and psychological warfare. What is discussed less, however, is the wave of foreign funding of religious foundations and mosques that comes either directly from other states or from various actors with a close connection to these states. The Mosque at Hisingen in Gothenburg cost SEK 67 million to build – money that came directly from Saudi Arabia. The problem has been known for a long time, and a number of congregations have actually turned down Saudi money for wanting too much control over the operation. There are states, foundations, organisations and others who have an interest in destabilising Sweden and undermining Swedish democracy. In this area, the Christian Democrats therefore propose a ban on foreign extremists being allowed to finance organisations, foundations, religious communities and political groupings in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Just a few days ago, on May 1st, the Nazi Nordic Resistance demonstrated. The Christian Democrats believe that they are and should be treated as a terrorist organisation. Members of the movement continuously commit violence for political purposes, and for example, three people have been convicted of various bombings against a trade union and refugee camps during the winter of 2016-17. The fact that they were not even prosecuted for terrorist crimes puts the light on a serious gap in Swedish legislation. It needs to be tightened up. Nazis can't get away with it. Two of the convicted have also been in Russia and have participated in paramilitary training. Just as it should be forbidden for Saudi Arabia to finance extremism in Sweden, it should of course be forbidden for Nazis to go to training camps. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support the reservations about committee movements and party-wide motions in which the Christian Democrats have participated, but for time, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 14 only with reference to the Christian Democrats' proposal for a ban on foreign funding.
i-c9531e61da05864a-802	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Justice Committee's report on terrorism. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. Syria, New York, Nairobi, Brussels, Stockholm and Utøya, and most recently Christchurch and Sri Lanka – countless are the places that have been hit by terrorists' unimaginable cruelty and evil. The victims are children, women and men, and the victims are Christians, Muslims and Jews. The common thing is that innocent people have been murdered and maimed. This is terrorism – it strikes innocent people blindly. Democratic society must use its full power to do everything possible to fight terrorists. At the same time, we democrats must stand up for what the terrorists hate most, namely our open, democratic model of society. We shall stand up for freedom of speech and religion, and we shall stand up for the equal value of all people. We will stand up for equality and LGBTQ people's rights. We'll never fold down, and we'll never let the terrorists win. Madam President, I would like Preventing, preventing and making things more difficult is the basis for Sweden's anti-terrorism strategy. We will equip society to respond to propaganda and anti-democratic messages. We will give Säpo and the police better tools for information gathering, and we will give the police better opportunities to interrupt any ongoing terrorist acts. The fight against terrorism is the responsibility of all of us. Therefore, it is gratifying that during the previous term of office we were able to conclude two cross-block agreements, one in 2015 and one in 2017, which strengthen Sweden's ability to combat terrorism. Examples of things we agreed on are a resource enhancement of Säpo and the police to increase impact, ensuring police response capacity, an increased ability to reduce response times and an ability to operate in more than one location simultaneously and for longer periods of time. There are now joint exercises between the Police Authority, the Swedish Armed Forces and Säpo. We have established greater international cooperation. New legislation allows for operational cooperation between EU intervention teams, and Sweden has also concluded a similar agreement with Norway. There is a strengthened collaboration between Säpo and the Migration Agency where there is now a collaboration to increase the ability to detect potential threats. Today, Säpo has increased direct access to the Migration Agency's alien database. Terrorism travel has been criminalised, and the reception of terrorist training has also been criminalised. To this we can add that the misuse of Swedish passports has been made more difficult. A national centre against violent extremism has also been set up at Brå, which is a good thing. The Centre's task is to act as a team for supporting municipalities in a robust manner, to provide increased knowledge of the driving forces and expressions of extremism, and to coordinate national efforts. Measures against financing have been improved, but it is important here that legislation is kept under constant review if and when there is a need. Madam President, I would like In other words, a whole series of measures have been put in place, but we will need additional measures precisely to prevent, prevent and make it more difficult for terrorists. Let me give you a few examples. We believe it is urgent that legislation that criminalises participation in and involvement with terrorist organisations should be put in place. A proposal is in the process of being associated with a terrorist organisation where the act is designed to promote, strengthen or support the terrorist organisation. The forms of association referred to are: - take up arms, ammunition, flammable or explosive goods, communication equipment, means of transport or other similar equipment for a terrorist organisation provide local or land to a terrorist organisation or provide similar support to a terrorist organisation; The punishment for terrorist crimes may need to be tightened up. The task of the Terrorist Crime Investigation is to review criminal law in the field of terrorism with a view to proposing precisely penalties. Good intelligence is A and O to improve the prevention of terrorist crimes. Recently, a proposal has been put forward on how Säpo and the police should be able to receive intelligence from signal reconnaissance. Work is under way to introduce a new secret coercive device, so-called secret data reading. It is a necessary adjustment to the way terrorists today communicate and store information. A review is now being carried out of the Special Alien Control Act, which we have heard earlier in the debate. The mission includes the question of how to strengthen the control of persons deemed to pose a security threat. Madam President, I would like Terrorism is not a new concept or a new phenomenon. Terrorism, however, is not static. It has changed over time, from the reign of terror of the French Revolution through airplane creations and kidnappings in the 1970s to today's suicide bombers and IS terrorists. Having said that, it is extremely important that we, as legislators, constantly evaluate and, if necessary, also change our legislation so that it also meets the terrorists of the future with the full power of open society.
i-c9531e61da05864a-816	Madam President, I would like I listened to Joakim Sandell's speech with some interest. He raised the issue of the criminalisation of participation in and association with terrorist organisations, which is a very rewritten issue. The Government decided on this investigation just over two years ago – it was spring 2017. There we are – unfortunately, I would like to say – in many cases still in square one; the Law Council rejected the legislation that the government had produced. What I understand from the signals that have come from the government and the Social Democrats is now looking at some form of parliamentary inquiry or the like to open up these constitutional issues, as this in order to get everything in place should require constitutional changes. This message was given to us already in March. We are now in May, and I know that nothing more has happened with regard to these very constitutional issues. At least no contacts have been made with us Moderates. Now, of course, I know that Joakim Sandell is not in the government, but a government is also made up of parties. Since Joakim Sandell raised the issue, I wonder whether he knows when the Social Democrats intend to initiate such an investigation, so that we can finally get this important change in place.
i-c9531e61da05864a-821	Madam President, I would like It is quite right, as Johan Forssell says, that there was a proposal on the ground concerning the criminalisation of participation in and association with terrorist organisations. This proposal was then issued by the Legislative Council and it was found that the proposal concerning the participation part was not compatible with the freedom of association of the Constitution. Our view in committee is still that we see a law in place that criminalises participation, but it is extremely important for us that we live up to the Constitution. I take it that a constitutional amendment is needed if such legislation is to come into place. The Council did not give an opinion on the relationship, so we can come up with a new legislative proposal much more quickly in this area.
i-c9531e61da05864a-824	Madam President, I would like I don't have much to object to that description; that's about the way it is. Perhaps I miss the small detail about when an investigation can come into place about the participation part. This is of course very urgent; on this point too, Sweden is lagging behind a number of other countries, as Joakim Sandell certainly knows. As I said, we have very serious problems in our country, not least with regard to the number of people who have made the exceptionally bad decision to join an atrocious terrorist cult. It would have been excellent if this legislation could be put in place. I think we can all understand that this constitutional issue is complicated. It should also be complicated– you should not change it unnecessarily. But it is also no news that constitutions exist. Now we stand here, two years after the government decided on this investigation, and I think it is still very unclear what this process should look like in the future. I hope that Joakim Sandell and his colleagues will make sure that we finally start to get this work going, do the necessary investigative work and make the necessary contacts so that we can make it work better. I know one thing: the reality out there does not take a break, no matter how slowly a government works.
i-c9531e61da05864a-828	Madam President, I would like As a matter of fact, it sounds like Johan Forsell and I are in agreement. I do not think that any of us in here – neither you, Johan Forsell, me or anyone else in this House – are in any way defending the involvement of a terrorist organisation in any way. However, it is true that we have to relate to what the Law Council has stated in this case. It is my hope and your hope that we will be able to move forward with this. I hope that we can reach a consensus on this issue just as we have done in previous agreements such as those in 2015 and 2017. I think it is extremely important that we can do this work together.
i-c9531e61da05864a-830	Madam President, I would like I was first on the same track. Johan Forssell took the question out of my mouth about what we lack – the thought of where the road will go further. But I'm turning over on another track. There is also terrorist activity within our country. In many cases it is directed against those who are Jews, against synagogues, and otherwise. I note that the first of May in Malmö was not a good example of how such tendencies are counteracted. As I understood it, the demonstration campaign used formulations dealing with the destruction of Zionism, which I interpret as speaking in the same spirit as those who resort to violence to combat something religious. Madam President, I would like I would like to hear what image Joakim Sandell has of how it is and how we combat acts of terror directed at Jews and against synagogues if a youth association uses concepts that can be interpreted as targeting a population.
i-c9531e61da05864a-834	Madam President, I would like If Mr Kihlström has been in the media over the last few days, perhaps he has been able to read my comments on this. I strongly distance myself from all the expressions and opinions that can in any way be interpreted as anti-Semitic. I have also made an unconditional apology on behalf of the party organisation to the Jewish congregation in Malmö. For me, it is extremely important that all people, no matter where they come from or what religion they have, should be safe on Malmö's streets. However, I find it a little interesting that the question comes precisely from the Christian Democrats. I can turn the question around: your foreign policy spokesperson has invited representatives of an organisation called My Truth, which states that Judea and Samaria should be cleansed of Arabs. How do you see, Ingemar Kihlström, the oppression that is affecting Palestinians in the occupied territories?
i-c9531e61da05864a-836	Madam President, I would like If this had been a foreign policy debate, I would have liked to have highlighted the whole complex picture of Palestine – Israel. It has many aspects. From my own personal point of view, we're going to nail everything that's done in the region. It is important to maintain a balance. However, I return to the question of whether Joakim Sandell thinks it is an opinion and something that should take place during a first-May speech or within a youth association that they say: Crush Zionism! I take it that in some way you are on the same side as those who commit acts of terror based on religious conviction. In my world, in my Sweden, everyone should be allowed to express their opinion, but no one should suffer from violence, no matter what faith, sexual orientation or party affiliation you have. It is important to set up rough marks, and I think it is time for the Social Democrats to do so within their party as well.
i-c9531e61da05864a-839	Madam President, I would like I do not disagree with Mr Kihlström on this issue. If Mr Kihlström had endeavoured to listen to my first answer to the question, or had endeavoured to read what is written in DN, Sydsvenskan and Skånska Dagbladet today and what has been said in Swedish Radio P4 today, he would also have received an answer to the question he is now asking.
i-c9531e61da05864a-841	Madam President, I would like Terrorism is a major threat to democracy and to those of us who want to live in a free society. Violent environments do not want us feminists, environmentalists and single mothers to be able to live in freedom. The violent extremism that IS stands for is a cartoon of what happens when a male violent culture is allowed to ravage freely and unhinderedly use its means of power. The violent white power environment lives and thrives. The NMR demonstrated both in Ludvika and in Kungälv on May 1st, which is the workers' festival day. It's spitting on the left, on LGBT people, on socialists and on feminists. Those most affected by IS are other Muslims – Muslims who live their lives in peace and freedom and distance themselves from the extreme part of Islam that IS believes they are advocating. Actually, they only advocate death, violence, and destruction. Those most affected by the NMR are all of us who believe in openness, democracy and justice. There is a need for a comprehensive approach to violent extremism. It contains so many questions, from demonstration permits to how IS children can get home to Sweden in the best way. There's so much more to do. But the focus of the political debate is mainly on neo-criminalisation, a criminalisation that has proved not to work very well. The Left Party is not part of the cross-block work against terrorism, because we believe that the legal measures proposed so far have not been very good. Travelling and financing of terrorism have been criminalised. The courts have found it rather difficult to make use of this legislation. One of the judges is currently in the Court of Appeal. The government was to present a bill on the criminalisation of connection with terrorism. But the Law Council then came up with an 18-page argumentation as to why it is a legally bad idea, and I agree with every word of the Law Council. Madam President, I would like What if we were to spend as much time on preventing people from radicalising as is currently being spent on neo-criminalisation, if we were to spend time making people not turn to extreme environments and contexts that are neither religious nor politically motivated? But what the work and time really need to be put on is that extreme and undemocratic views should not be allowed to grow. We know that extreme views thrive more easily in economically unequal societies. Crime is more widespread and ill health is greater. If we in Sweden had a social service with great capacity to catch up early and help children who are not well and are on the run, extremism would decrease. If we had municipalities that seriously had the capacity to integrate and invite newly arrived people into Swedish society, extremism would decrease. If we had politicians who focused more on reducing economic gaps rather than criminalising crimes that are already criminals, a lot would happen. We have debated terrorism in this House incredibly many times, and rightly so, because the problem of radical and violent environments is great. But an even bigger problem is that there is no debate on how to make people not radicalise, because that is really where the problem lies. When legislation is being discussed today, things are already too late. Now terrorism has already taken place. Madam President, I would like I do not have a motion today, but I support the policy put forward by the Left Party in this committee during all previous debates over the years.
i-c9531e61da05864a-851	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my speech, the other week it was revealed that the Left Party leader is campaigning on the same election poster as a perhaps so-called comrade wearing a t-shirt showing support for anti-fascist action. Anti-fascist action is judged by the Swedish Security Service to be one of the most criminal organisations in the so-called left-wing autonomous environment. Given the various links between the Left Party and revolutionary and violent ideas and organisations, I would like to ask Linda Westerlund Snecker a few simple questions. Is it democraticly credible to demonstrate together with violent organisations? And if you're a Communist, will you be expelled from the Left Party? Yes or no?
i-c9531e61da05864a-853	Madam President, I would like The Left Party does not in any way support any violent organisation. The Left Party does not support the AFA. The Left Party has nothing to do with that organisation. What has happened is that a person has stepped into the photo shoot of the Left Party's EU posters. It is a bad thing, it is a terrible thing against the Left Party and something that we really wish had not happened. We have nothing to do with that organisation and will not have it.
i-c9531e61da05864a-855	Madam President, I would like There was some clarification. However, I note that the Left Party has not withdrawn and chooses to continue campaigning with the poster advertising violent extremism. You could call that credible or not. It continues to demonstrate with Communist parties on May 1st, which was part of my question. But the most important question I want answers to is: is the Left Party disfellowshipping if you are a Communist – yes or no?
i-c9531e61da05864a-857	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has absolutely no touch, cooperation or desire to have anything to do with the environments that AFA stands for. We do not have it now and will not have it in the future. If you're a member of the Left Party, you have to share our values. We are feminists, anti-racists, socialists and climate activists, and those are values that must be shared. If you do not, if you violate our statutes or the like, there will be a process of examining membership. That's how our statutes work. We are a democratic party that is firmly committed to democratic principles. Our members decide what policy we have, and we follow that policy. Everyone is welcome to the Left Party. Anyone can become a member, but one must stand up for democratic principles and be an anti-racist, a feminist and a socialist. Then you're welcome.
i-c9531e61da05864a-861	Madam President, I would like After the terrorist attack in Stockholm in April 2017, Sweden managed to collect. Like what Norway did after Utøya and like far too many European cities and countries in recent years. Being able to gather as a nation after such a tragedy is a strength, and it is something that characterizes our robust democratic societies. We have great trust in each other, and when there is a crisis, we are helped. In Stockholm people were able to see how people collaborated and showed kindness and solidarity with each other. Politics, too, proved its best. The government showed strong leadership, but not, I would argue, because at this point it was reddish green. I am absolutely sure that a government of a different color in such a situation would also have acted for calm and to gather the country. After the terrorist attack, the political parties gathered to discuss how similar acts could be prevented in the future. A second agreement against terror was made – the first, as we know in 2015 – with a wide range of measures. It was about resources and tools for security police and police, as well as legislative changes, but also about knowledge. Madam President, I would like Recently, association and participation in terrorist organisations have been discussed and what bans may look like. Several have spoken about this in their speeches. In its opinion it was precisely participating the Law Council remarked and felt that it was not in line with the freedom of association in the Constitution. In fact, what concerns association does not look the same. Another issue that has been discussed is the returnees, that is, Swedish citizens who have come back after having been to Syria and Iraq. We also recently had a special debate on that in this House. Without repeating what was said at the time, it is extremely important that those who come back and have committed crimes can be held accountable and judged. In a few weeks, there will be elections to the European Parliament. The countries of Europe all share the need to prevent and prevent terrorism. Our respective countries' security police and intelligence services must cooperate in this and be able to do so in a good way for all our citizens. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-c9531e61da05864a-869	Madam President, I would like There are 300 jihadists from Sweden who have gone to Syria and Iraq and practiced extreme brutality. It is a disgrace to all of us, and only two are doomed. The government has lacked the capacity to act. As a result, government action against violent extremism and terrorism has been a long chain reaction of slowness. In the case of children whose guardians are IS terrorists and who are in Syria, a well-thought-out plan is lacking. The focus is on whether to bring them back to Sweden or not. But the plan for how to respond to them is missing. The message must be clear here. The children should be taken care of. Assessments must be made of traumatisation and the risk of radicalisation. Care plans must be drawn up. Then individual trials can be made about the future of children. Here social services must feel the full support of politics. That is our duty. There is a lack of coherent policy with clear measures to create prevention in the environments where radicalisation takes place. Politics has not understood the playing field on which the extremists operate. We have not identified the necessary efforts as resilience for all the children and young people at risk. There are 300 jihadists who have travelled and committed the worst crimes, and what have we done to counter the thousands who have been radicalized or are about to radicalise here at home? Säpo should be the last instance but tends to be the first and the only protection. We are not using the entire playing field against extremists and terrorists. Politicians and authorities need to take a clearer holistic approach. In 2009, Nyamko Sabuni commissioned Ranstorp and Dos Santo at the Swedish Defence University to develop a situational picture of the problems of Islamic radicalisation in Rosengård. The Rosengård report then noted that Islamic radicalisation had increased. The report was criticised. However, if the policy had instead applied the proposals in the report, the huge increase in radicalisation that has taken place over the last ten years would have been prevented. If politicians had seen the children at risk in 2009 and acted, Sweden would probably have had fewer radicalized 20-year-olds in 2019. If politics had then taken the fight against political Islam, jihadism, right-wing and left-wing extremism, this debate in this House would probably have occurred but at another level, and we would have had far fewer extremists in Sweden. There were politicians who wanted to, but politics lacked the political will to see and deal with the problem. Today we need a thorough analysis of reality. Identity policy and its fear of touch with reality have been a danger, not to us here, but to all the children and young people we have betrayed. Anti-terrorism must be combated, but identity policy is definitely not the solution. The state must stop showing double faces: on the one hand, counter extremism, on the other hand, finance activities that favour extremism. Together, we will fight xenophobia and social divides, but to mention this as the cause of radicalisation and gang crime is to simplify the problem. It is also a violation of all guardians who despite scarce resources, a life in a vulnerable residential area and without support do everything to make their children safe and responsible citizens of society. We must dare to stand up for the secular state. It is the guarantor of a society in which religious minorities can live side by side with atheists, LGBT people, women and children who have given steam to their fundamental rights and freedoms. The fight against xenophobia, reactionary forces and terrorism must be taken today, tomorrow and every day. I support all our reservations, but I would like to express my support for reservation 7.
i-c9531e61da05864a-882	Madam President, I would like I'll be brief in this late hour. I support the Center Party's reservation, No. 1. Initially, I would like to say that the Government's proposal on the implementation of the Children's Rights Directive and some other criminal procedural issues are largely good. However, there are some things that the Center Party lacks and want to highlight in particular. According to the Government, the Directive does not cover investigations into offences suspected of being committed by a person under the age of 15 and carried out under the Act with special provisions on young offenders. The Center Party does not agree with the view that children under the age of 15 who are suspected of offences should be excluded from the application of the Directive, but believes that these cases too must be covered by the new legislation. The report states that investigations against children under the age of 15 who are suspected are ultimately aimed at providing the social services with clarity as to what has happened to enable them to deploy resources. However, on a number of occasions in recent years we have seen high-profile cases that have clearly demonstrated the need to take further legal action in the event of serious criminal suspicions. The question of evidence is important both from a victim's perspective and from a child's perspective. We discussed this issue in here a few weeks ago, which led to an announcement on this issue. It is therefore unnecessary to go further here today. We can see that it is a good thing that we now have an announcement in place, and we therefore choose only to have a specific opinion on this matter.
i-c9531e61da05864a-887	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has no objection on the substance of the matter, but believes that the government has tabled a good bill. On the other hand, I would like to highlight the very topical issue of child detention, which should be banned. Both the actual detention of children and the very well-used isolation with restrictions used in detention centres must be brought to an immediate end. Sweden has been criticised for years by the UN torture committee for the widespread detention of children. The question has been investigated. There are proposals that must become law, and that must happen now. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to point this out once again: ban the arrest of children! Prohibit isolation of children! The Convention on the Rights of the Child shall become Swedish law. This is also welcome, but then detention of children must also be prohibited. Another issue I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight is children under the age of 15 who commit crimes. Since they are not of criminal age, they cannot be sentenced to any punishment, but it is important that there is still an investigation into what has happened. This is called an action for evidence, and it can only be brought by the social welfare board, the social welfare board or the child's guardian and in some cases by the prosecutor. It is important that serious crimes are investigated, not least in order to clarify what has happened, for the victim's sake, but also in order for young people who have committed crimes to receive the necessary help and not get caught up in criminal behaviour. This is something that a united Committee on Justice supports, and it is really good. Having said that, I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-c9531e61da05864a-892	Madam President, I would like All children have the same fundamental rights and equal value. No one must be discriminated against. The best interests of the child should come first in all actions relating to the child. Every child has the right to survive, live and develop. Children have the right to express their views and to have them taken into account in all matters relating to them. These articles are the four main principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. They are the pillars of children's and young people's right to a safe, safe and good upbringing. The Convention on the Rights of the Child makes it clearer that courts and legal practitioners must take into account the rights arising from the Convention on the Rights of the Child when balancing and assessing decisions concerning children. I am thinking that the most important thing is to always stand up for the good of children in all situations. And of course there are things to do, not least when it comes to vulnerable children. Already today, there is much society can do to live up to expectations and legislation, and in this light, this directive is one thing – the Children's Rights Directive, procedural safeguards for children who are suspected of criminal law. The directive forms part of the so-called roadmap, which is an EU-adopted resolution on a roadmap to strengthen the rights of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings. The draft law lays down rules on the right of suspected children to an effective defence, information and individual assessment. It is also about rules on how children should be treated in the event of detention and their right to privacy. Detained children should be given special rights, and detention should, of course, be limited to as short a time as possible and indeed be a last resort. In the case of children under the age of 15, they are not covered by the Directive, but the law with specific provisions on young offenders applies. On the whole, we can say that the committee is in agreement. There has already been an announcement to the government that prosecutors should be able to initiate actions for evidence when suspects are under 15 years of age. The report has been referred, and a proposal will come in September, so the committee does not think it necessary to announce it again. The same applies to the investigation into which legislative changes need to be made in order to significantly reduce the number of children in custody. This investigation has been referred and prepared now and will come to Parliament when the preparation is complete. Having said that, I am in favour of the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
