i-50122f6f67175c22-1	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked the Minister for Finance and Housing if he believes that there is reason to review the possibility for municipalities to transfer maintenance responsibility for walking paths to small house owners, and if so how. Furthermore, Beckman asks whether the Minister for the Financial Market and Housing believes that road safety and the risk of slip accidents are affected if municipalities allow maintenance of footpaths to be transferred to owners of small houses, whether it is an appropriate arrangement that owners of small houses can be liable for slip-accidents on the municipality's footpaths and whether there is reason to make it clearer in the legislation that the entrances to small house properties should not be ploughed again. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to begin by saying that I share Lars Beckman's concern about the negative consequences that, according to the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness and the Swedish Road and Transport Research Institute, arise as a result of a lack of snow clearance. The responsibility for snow clearance lies primarily with the municipalities. As Lars Beckman describes, according to a special law, the municipality has the opportunity to place the responsibility for the management of the pedestrian path and other spaces outside the property that are needed for pedestrian traffic on the property owner. The possibility of assigning responsibility to the property owner is linked to the changes made to the 1958 regulations, since municipalities in particular were opposed to the municipalisation of responsibility due to the risk of increased costs. The way in which sanitation should be organised has thus been left to the municipalities to decide, based on different local considerations. The municipalities have chosen to do in different ways, and as the law is now designed they are given that opportunity. In those places where the municipality is responsible under the legislation for snow clearance, it is therefore the municipalities' task, and not mine, to assess how snow clearance should be carried out. This means that municipalities may consider whether snow clearance on pedestrian paths can be carried out by the property owners concerned. However, I share Lars Beckman's concern that poor snow clearance can lead to compromised road safety and lack of accessibility. The law on street cleaning and signage contains provisions in a variety of areas. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has brought the Government's attention to the need to review the law, especially in the context of the regulations on sanitation. The municipality's cleaning measures must be carried out today so that there is no inconvenience to human health, and requirements for comfort, accessibility and road safety must be met. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency proposes that the municipalities' responsibilities be extended, so that damage to plant and animal life is avoided to a reasonable extent. In addition, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal to amend the Act aims to clarify the municipality's responsibility for sanitation and to impose higher requirements on the cleaning that the municipality should perform. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency further states that the law is archaicly designed. The issue is currently being prepared within the Government Office but with a focus on resolving the liability issue of litter.
i-50122f6f67175c22-9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Today we are here in Stockholm debating this issue. I would like to remind the Prime Minister and Madam President that there is still a blizzard in North and Västerbotten and in large parts of Norrland. For example, in the Northern newspaper today, we read about Bertil, who was out shoveling, fell and broke his femoral neck and was rescued after five hours by, as he says, So this is a real social problem which I think we need to solve. As the Government says in its reply, Sweden's municipalities currently have the right to transfer much of the responsibility for the management of footpaths on small house owners. That I wrote this interpellation was because I read a front page in Aftonbladet that I bounced to. It said just this: The risk of heart attack is increasing because many houseowners go out and shovel. I started to read about this. A report was mentioned in Aftonbladet from the houseowners organization. It is very good, and I recommend everyone to read it; it is available on the Villa owners website. It is 60 per cent of Sweden's municipalities that allow the owners of small houses to shovel the municipality's walkways. According to the report, the issue was first raised in the 1868 Charter. This legislation, in turn, was based on the fact that in the 18th and 19th centuries it was reasonable for the property owners to shovel or keep clean outside on the sidewalk. Now it's not 1868 anymore, it's 2019. Then, of course, one must consider whether it is reasonable and cost-effective for small house owners and property owners to shovel the municipality's sidewalks, which it is about. In the face of this interpellation debate, I happened to talk to someone who lives in Fornåsa, Östergötland. It turned out that they had neighbors, an older couple, where the municipality came and snowed. The snow was laid on the sidewalk around the property. It went well as long as the older man had the opportunity to shovel the pavement. But the man dies, and then it is suddenly the older widow who will take care of the snow that comes from the municipality's snow clearance. The widow could not do this but in turn had to hire an entrepreneur who snowed the municipality's sidewalk. I think most people understand that it is unreasonable that in Sweden in 2019 it is property owners who will pick garbage, rake leaves and weeds on the municipality's land. The report from the Villa owners has asked homeowners and property owners what they think. Seventy-seven per cent of those who live on municipal streets and have entrances that can be opened again consider it to be the municipality's responsibility. There is therefore strong popular support among property owners to change the legislation so that it is an entrepreneur, a company or the municipality itself that does this, rather than 100 property owners along a road to find solutions that fit. I heard in the reply that the Government agrees with the problem picture and that there are many risks to this. However, I could not tell from the answer whether the government intends to take any action or take any initiatives in this area. If you want to do so, it is relatively simple simply to transfer responsibility to the municipalities.
i-50122f6f67175c22-18	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman! I really think that this issue is important. The example that Lars Beckman highlights from Dagens Nyheter about slip accidents and older people who can have really big problems with large snowfalls and slips is something that we need to take very seriously. We must, of course, try to ensure that we avoid slips and falls when they are avoidable. We have extensive municipal self-government. And, as I said, this legislation was last updated in 1958. Since then, snow clearance has continued to be the municipality's responsibility. It is not that the municipalities are in any way forced to transfer responsibility to owners of small houses or property owners, but there is an opportunity here. This possibility must also be linked to the fact that our country is very elongated and has very different conditions and different weather conditions, as Lars Beckman pointed out just now. There is a huge difference between southern Sweden, dense settlements, northern Sweden, sparsely populated areas and Sweden's hinterland. There is thus a possibility for municipalities to transfer responsibility. It is something that has not been questioned for the foreseeable future, but it is the relationship that has existed since many governments back. This should reasonably be a matter at municipal level. I think about when you choose who will rule in the municipality. One can also choose to highlight this as a municipal policy issue in which different parties can have different entrances. It is about the responsibility of the municipality for snow clearance in different areas of the municipality. I have not been confirmed that 60% of the municipalities are doing this. However, there are many municipalities where there are great opportunities to apply for exemption from this responsibility. And municipalities have every opportunity to review and withdraw their decisions or delegated responsibilities to certain property owners. As I said, we will look at the legislation on the basis of the Environmental Protection Agency's comments that in the sanitation section today there is no respect for animals and nature, but only for human health and comfort. We need to look at it for that reason. Otherwise, I think that the municipalities should take responsibility and see what opportunities the residents of the municipality have to take this responsibility. This debate should reasonably be held at municipal level.
i-50122f6f67175c22-24	Madam President, I would like Yes, I am a great friend of municipal self-government, and I am sure we share that view. On certain issues, however, the government cannot renounce responsibility when it sees that it operates differently across the country. There are a variety of reasons why you may not be able to shovel the municipality's sidewalk – it can be about age, illness or going on vacation. This means that the anti-slip is very different, even on the same street. The MSB report to which I refer in the interpellation shows that a great many slip accidents and falls are due to poor snow clearance and anti-slip operations. As a result, it will be a public interest for this to work. And in the report that came in 2015, it is clear: Prioritising walking and cycling paths in winter road maintenance seems to be beneficial both in terms of damage reduction and in terms of the cost of medical and sick leave due to injuries caused by slip accidents. That is precisely why this law may need to be amended and clarified. Then there is another problem – it is really about the same legislation. When the municipality snows its way, it can become a very high plough wall. I saw that there was a snow record in Norrbotten; it has not snowed so much there in over 50 years. Then there will be a lot of snow. I saw a picture on Facebook myself. A woman put up a picture from Norrbotten and said: How can I get out in the morning to get to my job when the municipality has laid a half meter of snow in a snow embankment? The municipality is probably not allowed to do this, but it is a very unclear legislation as to how long the municipality has to take away the plough wall that it has done. Today, there are modern technology and plough leaves – and it's about the competence of the snow trawler – which means that you don't have to lay up half a meter of plough embankment. I think there is reason for the government to look at this. What is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that entrances to small house properties will not be opened again? It's the same thing here. Even if I am healthy and in the middle of my life, it becomes a problem when I go to work if someone lays up a plough wall that is half a metre high. For the widow who is going to take the car to the store, it becomes a real problem. I have personal experience that when someone in a wheelchair tries to get out of the small house property becomes a real problem. There is therefore a need for clarification in the legislation here. I think that the Government makes it a little too easy for itself by saying that it does not want to take any initiatives. They say it's a municipal question. The legislation is just as the Government said nationally. It derives from a 19th century law, the 1868 Charter of Order, and was updated in the mid-1950s. There is also a social benefit. What is the social benefit of solving things together? Of course, it is more effective for a tractor to take the pavement on a road than for a hundred different property owners to find their solution to each piece of the pavement. I know that the Minister for the Environment is involved in environmental issues. Perhaps it is much more effective that we solve things together, for example, that we plow a pavement with a tractor that is perhaps even electric, than that a hundred property owners should hire a hundred different companies, or how to solve it now if you do it yourself. This is indeed a common benefit. I think it is good that you should update the legislation, and now that you are going to update it, you could also include this issue in the preparation and investigation.
i-50122f6f67175c22-35	Madam President, I would like We are now discussing this issue. It is clear that we share the view that we should make the most effective solutions possible and as environmentally efficient and good as possible. At the same time, I believe that we recognise that it is important for people to be able to influence their local environment, community and community through the municipal elections. This is an excellent example of a local democratic issue that should be able to involve the citizens. Different parties should also be able to go to elections with different solutions. There is nothing in the legislation that obliges municipalities to transfer responsibility to property owners, but there is an opportunity to do so. I think about how different conditions look around our very elongated country. There are, of course, municipalities that would find it very difficult to provide a very precise snow clearance out in sparsely populated areas. That is probably the reason why this possibility exists. But, like I said, it's an opportunity. It is by no means a coercion. Municipalities can take responsibility back to themselves, and in many cases they should do so. As far as falls are concerned, I really share the view that this is both about human suffering and about huge costs for society. I note that, for this reason, many municipalities give priority to snow-rolling walking and cycling paths in front of the rest of the roads. There is, of course, the possibility of influencing how the work is carried out. Now we enter a climate with more extreme weather events, violent snowfalls and the like. When assessing whether a property owner really has a responsibility for accessibility in the event of a sudden snowfall, it is not necessarily the case that one should be at hand in all these eventualities. It's a matter of assessment. It is also possible to apply to the municipality for exemption from this responsibility. The municipality should also have an interest in liberating the elderly.
i-50122f6f67175c22-40	Madam President, I would like I'll correct the number. It is therefore 84 per cent of the owners of small houses who believe that the municipality should be responsible for snow clearance, and 77 per cent believe that the municipality should not be able to plough the driveway again. There is therefore strong popular support for changing the legislation. Nevertheless, it seems that we agree that snow clearance is important. It seems we agree that Bertil will not fall when he clears the county's land, breaks the femoral neck and freezes for four hours. He was saved by two angels, as he puts it in the North today. Nevertheless, while reviewing the legislation relating to this area, it would be reasonable for the government to deprive the owners of small houses of responsibility for maintaining and managing the land of the municipalities. But that's not what it's about. No one thinks it unreasonable to run your own property. That's perfectly reasonable. But here there is a legal requirement to manage the municipalities' sidewalks and roads. It is not effective that a hundred different property owners after a road should handle their curb, but this is of course a societal issue where one should find effective environmentally friendly solutions, then one is doing things together. If it were not for such a large proportion of municipalities to allow the owners of small houses to shovel their footpaths – more than half, 60 per cent – it would still be a matter for the parliament and government to deal with. This is not a big problem in sparsely populated areas – I don't think anyone who lives in an inland village thinks you should get there and shovel the sidewalk – but this is a problem that is mainly found in the larger cities.
i-50122f6f67175c22-44	Madam President, I would like I think Lars Beckman put his finger exactly on the problem in the very last sentence. If it is to be given as a general responsibility for the municipalities to take care of all snow clearance throughout Sweden, it is not possible for the municipalities to transfer responsibility to property owners in sparsely populated areas in cases where the municipality simply does not have the capacity to reach out everywhere. That is what legislation provides for. It is in no way the case that all responsibility lies with the property owners throughout Sweden, but there is an opportunity in the legislation to do so. The question is how appropriate it is to regulate the municipalities in detail in exactly how snow clearance should be carried out. I share Lars Beckman's conviction that the municipalities should have autonomy, and I believe that it is an important issue locally to make demands of the parties governing the municipalities to review the issue in cases where it is a problem. The issue is important. We can come back to the question of whether the municipalities do not accept their responsibilities, but I assume that they do.
i-50122f6f67175c22-47	Madam President, I would like Annika Qarlsson has asked me what measures I will take to ensure that the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office correct the identified shortcomings in the handling of sexual offences. She has also asked how I intend to ensure legal certainty and equivalence between different geographical areas for sexual offences. It is important that the judiciary does its utmost to investigate reported rapes and other sexual offences. The fact that the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office have carried out joint supervision of the handling of violence in close relationship and sexual crimes is positive. The purpose of the supervision has been to see if there are systematic shortcomings in the work that need to be addressed. One conclusion drawn by the authorities is that the prosecutors' chambers and police areas that are more closely following the methodological support that exists over time also have higher prosecutions. This indicates that further action needs to be taken in the authorities to ensure that existing guidelines for work are also followed in practice. In recent years, the Government has, through reporting requirements or assignments in the Political Authority's and the Prosecution Authority's regulatory letters, ordered the authorities to report on how they work to develop and anchor working methods in the investigation of rape and other sexual crimes. Also in the regulatory letters for 2019, which were amended by a government decision last week, there is a commission for the authorities to pay particular attention to analysing and describing developments regarding investigations into, among other things, sexual offences. In order to gain better knowledge of the development of crime and the work of the judiciary, the Government has also given the Crime Prevention Council, Brå, two commissions for sexual offences, to be reported in 2019. One of the tasks is to highlight the causes of the increases in reported and self-reported sex offences since 2005. In the second assignment, Brå will highlight the justice system's handling of rape crimes from notification to judgment. Brå will, among other things, identify difficulties and success factors in the investigation and prosecution work and make suggestions on how to improve the judicial system's handling of rape crimes. Investigations of sexual offences are an important issue for the government. I will therefore follow this issue closely. If necessary, I am no stranger to taking further action.
i-50122f6f67175c22-52	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your reply, and thank you for the opportunity to hear how Minister Damberg intends to act in order to move from identifying shortcomings that have been known before to observing procedures and prioritising these matters. It is not only the report Violent crimes in close relationships and sexual crimes against adults that point to the problems of long processing times and few convictions. The Council of Europe's expert group Grevio also recently published a report calling on Sweden to take action within the judicial system to ensure effective management and investigation of crimes against women. They also point to the lack of confidence in the judiciary. Confidence in the judiciary is a fundamental foundation of the rule of law and democracy. In recent years, silence has been broken, and more and more people are talking openly about the problems and about the norms and values behind sexual abuse and violence in close relationships. It is positive that the feelings of shame are reduced and that it should not be a question of the guilt of the victims. Metoo was and is a revolution and a decisive opening to lay the blame where it belongs – with the perpetrator. Women of all ages call Kvinnofridslinjen to talk about abuse. They seek help in health care, they turn to local crime victims' help centres and they report to the police. But they must not be faced with too long processing times and so few convictions. Every fifth woman in Sweden and every 20 men have been subjected to serious sexual violence at some point in their lives. This is shown in the study Violence and Health – A population survey on the exposure of women and men to violence and the link to health. The study was presented by the National Centre for Women's Peace, NCK, spring 2014. The study shows a clear link between vulnerability to violence and mental and physical ill health – not only directly at the time of violence, but also much later in life. Two policemen are picking up after Jennys's emergency call to SOS Alarm in the middle of ongoing rape. The man is arrested at the crime scene, and the woman undergoes medical examinations showing obvious injuries. The man is not arrested and released after three months. The woman is prosecuted instead of a low-level narcotics crime. One of all cases. In a survey from 2014, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council estimates that one in four women is victims of crime in a close relationship. Of the more than 5 million women living in Sweden, it means an incredible 1,250,000 women who will at some point in their lives be vulnerable – at home, a v someone who says it loves her, in a place and in a relationship where she thought she was safe. Most of these don't report, because who cares? Last Friday the documentary about Josefin Nilsson was released. A fantastic artist who with his voice and joy of life entertained and brought so many people joy and comfort, m also a man with a destiny shared by so many. Boyfriend becomes a perpetrator. Hard words become threats, threats become blows and blows to injuries to both body and soul. Life just turns into hell, that's all. Another one of all cases. In Sweden there are thousands and thousands who share these experiences, who live with memories of abuse or who still live in the midst of the inferno that life becomes when someone close to them commits these abuses. Jennys and Josefin's stories are their stories. We are not a court; we are not going to judge here in this House. But their stories are not just theirs. It's thousands upon thousands of women's stories. These are laudable suggestions in the Government's response: doing its utmost, systematic shortcomings, needing action, reporting requirements, paying particular attention, highlighting causes, identifying dividing lines. But does it make any difference? My question to the Government is: how will this make a difference to women who live with the consequences of these abuses for the rest of their lives?
i-50122f6f67175c22-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Qarlsson, for a very important interpellation! When it was written, it was up to date. Now that we are debating it, it is even more topical. I myself have seen the film about Josefin Nilsson and the story of what she was subjected to but also about her family's continued struggle with what happened. An incredibly strong story about what it means for a person to be exposed to this in a close relationship, how it breaks down but also how dangerous it can be. The tragedy is that we live in a society and a time where still the most dangerous thing there is for men is to somehow engage in a criminal organisation, while the most dangerous thing there is for women is to live with a violent man. It's the most dangerous thing women can do. Many women get stuck in an environment that is really dangerous to them, and it becomes a culture of silence – you don't want to report, you feel your own responsibility for that it has gone so far or you have somehow approved behaviour in the past. It is incredibly important that we in Sweden become forerunners in this area and show that this is not acceptable in a modern, democratic society, which should guarantee also women's right to security. We have a long-term strategy, a ten-year strategy, to reduce men's violence against women. But already today, the government has made arrangements with the Center Party and the Liberals in the budgetary context for extra efforts to work preventively, efforts that break these trends but also provide support for the women affected. A bit boring but at the same time important is that after the film about Josefin Nilsson has been shown I perceive that women's shelters around the country get further talks. Women turn to on callers and others to know how to do and who to turn to. This is what happened to me. Is this okay? It is important that this is done and that these women's talks are taken seriously. I'll switch over to the answer. Will it make a difference? Yes! The supervisory report shows that when police and prosecutors work according to the national guidelines that exist for how to handle this type of crime, things are better done. When the routine is not followed, it gets worse. Then you don't get as strong evidence value, and then the processes become more lengthy. There are unacceptable differences, I think, between different parts of Sweden in terms of how well you work with this. But, again, I would have been more worried if the Prosecution Authority and the police had not produced this oversight report. It shows that they themselves think this is an important issue to work with and that they must push out this way of working throughout the organisation. This will require resources. In the last spring's amending budget, special resources were given to the police to enable them to work with special efforts, not least in securing evidence. Special money was given for it so that the times at the National Forensic Centre are not too long. Now we're building up the police department across the country with more resources. My expectation with a larger police organization is greater efficiency. That's the big one. But special efforts are also needed. That is why it is important that I say in the answer and that Annika Qarlsson also draws attention to: The latest regulatory letter once again contains this specific area. The police must report back to us how to work with and follow up these issues, for this is one of the most serious forms of crime of our time. It creates a great deal of insecurity, and unless police and prosecutors do this properly, it also risks undermining confidence in the judiciary and the social institutions. For me and for the government, this is an important issue. I am pleased that the Center Party, the Liberals and the Government have now agreed on preventive measures and SEK 45 million in the spring change budget, which I believe will make a difference in the long term too.
i-50122f6f67175c22-74	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister, and thank you very much for your commitment. I believe that one of the most important things for us to be able to change these pieces at all is clear leadership and zero tolerance for this to continue. Clearly, there are limits to how clear a minister can be. But I think that on these issues there is such great resistance that lies beneath the surface and that one must get to the point that it must be clear that it is not a choice at the police station whether to raise the case or not. Reporting back, follow-up of equivalence and the fact that things are really happening and that times are shortened, I think is absolutely crucial to putting that pressure on the organisation. The discussion that sometimes becomes that there is so much other serious crime and that you do not have time for it is also an obstacle to what is important and right and what is serious. Being the victim of a rape is one of the most intimidating things a person can experience, and it often leaves a trace much later in life. Many vulnerable women and men are forced to live the rest of their lives with traumas, and the study from NCK shows that this vulnerability is living with the rest of your life. We'll have to pay for the rest of our lives. These are social costs, but there are enormous costs for each individual who has suffered this. There is an important structured work on women's peace lines at NCK in Uppsala, where all these talks are received. But they also have the knowledge, and they have built up government structures around Sweden and are working in a very good and structured way to raise knowledge and awareness and ensure that there is knowledge in educations and the like for those who are in work today but also for the new students who are studying to, for example, socionomist, dentist or nurse so that they get this knowledge with them. I have been the driving force in this work to ensure that the initiative presented today is included. For many years I have worked closely with NCK and see the work they do. It makes a big difference out there in business. NCK ensures that there is support for emergency centres and in health care and care for the elderly in order to ask the difficult questions and then be able to follow up. The effort is an extremely welcome addition to continuing with these issues. I believe that in this part it is extremely important that Minister Damberg continues to ask for data and figures to ensure that it is constantly moved so that it makes a difference all the time. It must not fall between two chairs, and it must not be something else that is more important. I have a book here with quotes from the Kvinnofridslinjen. A woman who calls in says, "The law says that you should cooperate, but how will it happen when I have never been able to make my voice heard?" ..................................................... One of the things presented in this report is that every third known perpetrator has not even been heard. This is somewhere a first, fundamental part, and I think it highlights how seriously low the level of work is. There is so much to do.
i-50122f6f67175c22-82	Madam President, I would like I can guarantee the interpellier that this is a priority work and that we will keep a strong focus on this area. If you look at the crime statistics over time, you can see that there are two things that stand out. One is that gang-related serious crime, with shootings and blasts, has increased and left Sweden. We're gonna push it back. The second thing that stands out in the statistics for recent years is the vulnerability, anxiety and insecurity of women. This is a social issue. It is not a matter of freely chosen work for the police or the Prosecutor's Office to work on these issues. The supervisory report also shows that there are several good examples around the country where it works well but that it does not meet the same high standards everywhere. Get me wrong – nothing is easy – but if we already know what works, it is relatively easy to transfer this knowledge to more places and make sure that everyone is working on this. It also applies to working systematically with what you, Annika Qarlsson, are highlighting and following up on this continuously. Sexual offences and violence in close relationships are priority areas for the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office, and the investigation results for all these types of crimes are continuously monitored. The Police Authority has developed a national education for investigators of sexual crimes that goes in depth to spread knowledge about how to make this work as effective as possible. The police authority also decided last year on national guidelines for the police's handling of storage and use of trace securing kits in the investigation of sexual offences. As a result of the new sex crime legislation, which broadened the criminal offences in this area and made it possible to convict more perpetrators, major training efforts were also made in relation to the Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, so that these authorities are fully updated as to what the legislation entails and what opportunities this offers. Methodology support has also been developed in several areas in recent years. I will follow this very closely. It is also important that we start with the long-term. I am grateful that Annika Qarlsson herself has been the driving force in the work to do more preventive work. If we don't get reports, the police and the prosecutor can't do their job. It must not be shameful to report this. It is the women who have the right on their side; it is not the men. In the spirit of time we live in, it has sometimes become a little controversial to say that it is men's responsibility, but it is men's responsibility to change this. It is about attitudes and the issue of men's responsibility in general in society so as not to accept or condone this kind of behaviour. I look forward to working with Annika Qarlsson. If we discover things that are still not working well and if we see that developments are not moving in the right direction, I am prepared to look at it together with Annika Qarlsson and other people in this House to make sure that this is a priority issue. We are going to reverse these figures, but above all we are going to restore the women who have been subjected to this. They should feel that the rule of law exists for them, that they take care of it seriously and professionally and that we can convict the perpetrators who commit these terrible crimes against women around Sweden.
i-50122f6f67175c22-92	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer and, once again, for your commitment. I think it is also about giving the businesses that face this tool to manage to meet these people and do a good job. It is about having a basic knowledge of what is happening and what is happening. What process is taking place, and what are the natural consequences of someone's being subjected to violence in a close relationship or rape? There is a need for general knowledge throughout the profession, but there is also a need for specialised and developed knowledge among those who then sit and investigate this. It works very much with NCK, both when it comes to including and complementing education and training for those who already exist in working life and when it comes to developing training courses for those who are on their way into working life. I think that somewhere in this is also a question of making demands. In the follow-up that needs to be done, some, which the Government may have with them, may be to ensure that the tools with knowledge and formal competence on these issues are widely disseminated among those who meet and work with this. Finally, I would like to say that these issues are not new to the women's movement. These are fundamental issues when the women's movement was founded a long time ago. What we are seeing now, thanks to the metoo, is that the focus has been on laying the blame for the whole thing where it belongs. This is a great revolution, and it must also permeate the authorities facing these women. We still have a great deal of work to do there. I am grateful that the Government has given me answers on how to systematically work and on how we manage to invest additional resources in our amending budget. Above all, I am grateful for the great commitment of the Government – I think it is extremely important and crucial for this to permeate the activities around the country.
i-50122f6f67175c22-98	Madam President, I would like First of all, I hope that this is not the last time that Parliament is debating these issues. We will need to keep our focus on this, because it is a major social problem. It is nothing new, but after metoo there is also an opportunity to do something in Sweden that few countries have succeeded in: to reverse the burden of debt and ensure that women's words are taken seriously. We now have legislation in place that takes women seriously, and we also have a legal system that is capable of prosecuting this. But then people have to report. This information has to come in, and we have to do the right thing when the notifications come. This exists today. Again, just to remind you, the supervisory report came about because the police and prosecutors themselves wanted to make a supervisory report and see if they were following the guidelines that existed. It was found that many do, but not all do. So there is room for improvement. I will follow it up, but it will also require preventive work. It is both about the investment of 10 million at NCK and about broader efforts to prevent and ensure that violence in close relationships is reduced in Sweden and that we take women seriously. I look forward to further discussion on this, and I will continue to be committed to these issues.
i-50122f6f67175c22-102	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me how and when we will find a solution to the problem of competence expulsions. I would like to start by highlighting the government's view that it is not reasonable for foreign workers to suffer unnecessarily if an employer has committed a minor or minor error. Nor is it proportionate for a serious employer to lose important skills in such cases. At the same time, it is important that rules, agreements and industry practices are respected when taking in foreign workers. In December 2017, the Migration Court of Appeal issued decisions that made it clear that, when examining whether a work permit is to be extended, the Migration Board will carry out an overall assessment of whether the conditions for the employment have been met. This meant a significant change in comparison with the previous strict application of the Aliens Act in this respect. The decision was also in line with what was intended by the memorandum of minor and minor errors regarding the terms and conditions of work permits, which, on behalf of the government, was handed over by an investigator in December 2017. Statistics from the Finnish Immigration Service show that, just as Maria Malmer Stenergard says, the situation has improved following these rulings. In professions with higher education qualifications, the proportion that was granted an extension of the work permit in 2018 was 97 per cent. In occupations requiring in-depth higher education skills, the share was 98 per cent. Developments are similar even in occupations with lower educational requirements. A well-functioning supply of skills is important for Sweden's competitiveness. Sweden is also an increasingly attractive country for labour immigrants. The number of people who come here and receive work permits has increased sharply in recent years. However, the government is prepared to take further action. As stated in the January Agreement, the problem of competence expulsions must be resolved. The parties covered by the agreement are now having discussions on this important issue. When the interpeller reported that she was prevented from attending the sitting, the first Vice-President admitted that Mr Arin could instead take part in the debate.
i-50122f6f67175c22-107	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. As Mrs Hautala mentioned, Maria's worse could not be here, so I, as the only Stockholmer of the oderatists in the committee, will stand up. I had to get up early in the morning, but it's okay. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the final wording of the reply, that it is an important question. It hasn't been the feeling before. It's been a little too long. But now we're there, so I'm actually thinking pink, not scratching, even if I'm in opposition. You should be concrete and try to solve the problems that exist. The issue of competence demonstrations is not just about strengthening Swedish competitiveness. It is not just about individuals being able to come to Sweden and fulfill their dreams. I see it from a larger perspective. It shows to those who live in Sweden that there are good people out there in the world who are prepared to come here, do their own thing, build their own lives but also strengthen our everyday lives, strengthen our well-being and develop Sweden as a nation in a globalised world. It is also a signal to increase the tolerance of immigration. It is only to be admitted that we have had a failed asylum migration for a long time with integration problems, and it has been under both Social Democratic governments and moderate-led alliance governments. It has gone so far that tolerance has declined for almost everyone who is coming here. I don't know how to put it into words, but we have a very polarised debate in society. I myself have a foreign background. I was born here and have been law-abiding, but sometimes I face certain questions that I might not have to face. But you bite. You're still a public person, so you've learned to bite together. What I mean is that we should have a high tolerance for all kinds of immigration, because ordinary people cannot always make a difference to what is labour immigration, asylum immigration, family immigration, love immigration, adoption and the like. If we are to help the people who are the weakest to go to Sweden and stay here for humanitarian reasons, we must also get people here who can work and contribute in Sweden from day one. Individuals may receive expulsion decisions because the employer has made a small simple mistake, a few hundred crowns. Out in town, Madam President, anyone could probably put their hand in their wallet and say: "I'll replace it with this amount – it's only SEK 137 or SEK 2. I would have done it. So we're talking about a few crowns. We are not talking about people who have cheated or about slave labour. It can also be a small simple insurance mistake. I have told the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry and LO: you own two insurance companies together. You own Afa together. Make sure to get a health insurance so that you can be insured before you come to Sweden. Try to solve it! I believe that the political forces must make certain changes to the law so that people do not fall into a small health insurance. If you are to be refused a work permit or extended work permit, it must be due to gross errors and not as it is today. I still want the pink government because this is being taken more seriously now. My question to the Attorney General is, do you have a deadline? About when are you going to present a proposal to the House?
i-50122f6f67175c22-118	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I very much like Mr Arin's tone in this discussion. He is quite right that as soon as we speak about migration policy, it sometimes tends to become a highly polarised debate. I try to do what I can to try to keep the tone as objective as possible, because we know what the social discussion looks like right now. But I think we all benefit from looking at the issues and seeing what we can do. I stand up for a system of labour immigration. We will simply have to recruit people from other countries in the coming years, not least in the light of the trend towards reducing unemployment. We have very strong developments in the labour market. We are moving towards a labour shortage in large areas and in many professions. In general, we also have strong growth. In order to cope with part of the supply of skills, we will need to have a labour migration. That's why I'm standing up for it. At the same time, I am equally determined that there must be order in the labour market. It must be under the same conditions as you come here and work. You should have the same type of salary, the same type of insurance cover and the same type of conditions as everyone else who works, otherwise labour migration will be used for wage dumping. It would go out on everyone. In addition, it would distort competition if some companies could have people who work for 30 SEK an hour and live in a basement, that people are exploited, while serious companies follow the rules and make sure to have good working conditions. This will not only be exploitation but also a competitive disadvantage for serious companies, and we do not want to do so. That's why these rules exist. It was not we but the moderate-led government that introduced them, so to some extent the opposition is now complaining about rules that they themselves were involved in and that we have been involved in reforming, precisely so that small and insignificant errors would not have such far-reaching consequences. There is new legislation in place here. In addition, there is a new practice on the ground following the decisions of the Migration Court of Appeal. One can then ask if it is difficult to live by these rules, if it is very complicated and difficult for companies to live up to the conditions. In my interpellation response, I say that 97% of all those with higher education qualifications who apply receive extended work permits, and in the group with advanced higher education skills, 98% is extended. So there has been a significant improvement in recent years. Nevertheless, my assessment is that such a terrible difficulty can probably not be compliance with the rules. I also think that responsibility must be placed on the parties involved. You can't just blame the state and say it's all the state's fault. The employer also has a responsibility to comply with laws and regulations, but the employee also has a responsibility. If you come from the other side of the world and are going to work here, you have a personal responsibility to find out which conditions apply and which rules to follow. We have come forward with legislative changes, the self-healing that now exists. We have a new case-law from the Migration Court of Appeal. Of course, we will see if we can do anything further. But I will never help employers cynically use this system to exploit poor people from across the world.
i-50122f6f67175c22-127	Madam President, I would like This is a great opportunity for the Social Democrats to correct legislation voted by the Moderates. It would be both a personal prestige and good for the people affected by it. Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister of Justice that we should be in order in the labour market. I do not want to live and work in or contribute to a society where people live at 30 kroner an hour. It's slavery in modern times. But I would like the government to focus as much on those who come here and behave and do the right thing, because that is also important. We can't just look at one end. I understand that our parties are looking at the issue from two different directions, but here we need to meet in the middle. Here I think that both can benefit from it in the polarized society we live in, because the foundation is usually system criticism. But the established parties have not addressed the issue in time. It takes too long in Sweden. There are advantages to that, Madam President. Not everything should go too fast, and there came my conservative leg. But my liberal leg says that sometimes we have to hurry a little. We need to do this, for when we hear the news that a law - abiding person — a family man or mother who does well and who often has a high level of education and a high income — will be expelled for an insurance failure or a pay slip of a few crowns, it arouses emotion. However, no one had felt sorry for the employer who had exploited workers. Sweden is special. We are an organized and bureaucratic country that separates us from the world around us. Now we need to simplify our systems and make clear demands. You should know the consequences, but if you do the right thing, it should be quick. Madam President, I would like When does the Minister of Justice judge that we can come up with a proposal in this House that we can take a position on so that we can get the labour market in order, knock away the legs of rogue employers and at the same time reward good employers who want to bring good workers here who want to contribute to Sweden's welfare?
i-50122f6f67175c22-133	Madam President, I would like We have already corrected parts of this legislation by means of a change of law which applies precisely to self-rectification. If the employer discovers that it has been made wrong and corrects it, we leave oddly even, and then one will not get into trouble. This opportunity did not exist before, but we have introduced it. We also have a new practice from the Migration Court of Appeal that says that one should look at the whole. When it comes to minor errors, be prepared to look between your fingers and look at the whole. So we already have a different situation today, both through changes in legislation and practice. For 97% of those with higher education skills, the work permit is extended, and if 97% can do the right thing, the rules cannot be so terribly complicated to live by. There will always be individual cases that you read about in the media and where you wonder what is happening. Often, however, you do not get the full picture when you read these articles, but other things may be behind the Migration Board's decision. Then you have to look at each individual case and see what is the problem. As I said, the government is discussing this with the Centre Party and the Liberals to see if there is anything else we can do, and we four parties are prepared to put forward the proposals that we can agree on. So far, however, I think that the measures we have taken have both had an impact and had an impact on the individual. Let me point out again that you cannot just blame the state or someone else, but you have a personal responsibility. As an employer, you can ensure that collective agreements are in place. It provides a good basis for offering good conditions. Also make sure to have a good cooperation with the trade unions. Then you get all the information you need about the insurance to be taken out, the wage levels that apply and so on. This is the responsibility of the employer and gives assurance that it is on a stable basis. If an employer brings a person from the other side of the world to work in Sweden, I require the employer to understand what kind of commitment he has. The same applies to the individual. We must be able to demand that anyone who moves here from the other side of the world understands the rules that apply here. It is therefore an interaction between the authorities and the parties. I am prepared to do more if necessary, but I note that some of the problems you are pointing out have already been remedied.
i-50122f6f67175c22-144	Madam President, I would like There came the ideological proposal that all companies should have collective agreements. I personally have no problem with collective agreements, but I think they should be concluded voluntarily between employers and trade unions. This has served the Swedish labour market well. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Justice refers to the new practice after the lucia judges in 2017. I do not know if the Minister of Justice may comment on a judgment in an individual case, but it has been written about it in the media, and the Centre for Justice has taken the case to the Migration Court of Appeal to examine the practice. It's about a person who was employed at ABB. The reason why the person was not granted an extended work permit was that the previous employer had made a mistake. Now the person has to go back to their home country and from there submit a new application. This costs money and brings human suffering to the family, and ABB loses a skilled employee. I call for flexibility here. I have no problem being hard on those who don't behave, and the Minister of Justice knows that. I reward those who do good, and those who do evil shall receive reprimander. When this sort of thing gets mediated, it creates polarization. There is another debate about people who are not doing well and where we have enforcement barriers and therefore are being handled. But in matters where we can actually influence and do the right thing, we are not fast enough on the ball, and that is where my criticism lies.
i-50122f6f67175c22-148	Madam President, I would like As I said, I am open to taking further action. Of course, I cannot comment on individual cases, but in the framework of our cooperation with the Centre Party and the Liberals we will discuss further measures. I just pointed out what we have already done, and then we will see if there is any further opportunity to do something. Mr Arin mentioned that we may have a slightly different perspective, and that may well be the case. I will never force a company to sign a collective agreement, because the state should not do so, but if you have collective agreements, the risk of doing so will be reduced significantly. If you also have good cooperation with the trade unions, you will find out what applies to everyone who works in that sector, for example what insurance you should have. So it is a good foundation. If an employer wants to minimise the risk that an employee may not have an extended work permit, collective agreements are a good basis to stand on. That's my advice. I see other far more extensive problems with today's system. This testifies, not least, to information in the media. We have situations where people come to Sweden after paying others to get a work permit. On paper they receive a salary, but in reality the employer retains half the salary. So the system is used to exploit people. We also need to get to grips with this in order to get the labour market in order.
i-50122f6f67175c22-152	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that more people who are illegally present in the country return to their home countries and what the timetable is for these measures. It is the government's firm view that a long-term sustainable migration policy presupposes that the person who has received a rejection decision after a legal review of the asylum system then leaves the country as soon as possible. A well-functioning return is also essential to counter the emergence of a shadow society. In the first instance, return should be voluntary, but if necessary by coercion. In order to get more people with removal decisions to return, the government has already taken a number of measures, and we have therefore had a relatively high rate of return. Over the past five years, more than 70 000 people have left Sweden, which represents about 1 000 per month. Some of the measures taken have entered into force, others are being dealt with at the moment. For example, the authorities have been given better tools to work with returnees. Since July 2018, the Police Authority has been given increased opportunities to check that employers do not hire people who do not have the necessary permits. The special contribution that an employer may be liable for if he has an employee who is not entitled to reside or work in Sweden doubled. The effects of this measure will be seen in the future. The Government has also commissioned the Migration Agency to increase detention capacity as part of increasing return. The number of detention centres has increased by 80 per cent since 2016, and the Migration Agency is now planning a completely new detention facility in northern Sweden that will be completed by 2020. The report, which is currently being prepared in the Government Office, aims, among other things, to improve the effectiveness of the Police Authority's work on return. As far as forced return is concerned, the most important factor in achieving effective work is that the countries of origin of the persons are prepared to accept the person who has been refused the application. If this does not work, the possibility for the authorities concerned to enforce these decisions is limited. It is important that we continue the bilateral dialogue with the beneficiary countries, while at the same time being part of the return work at European level. For example, a revision of the Return Directive is currently under way aimed at improving the efficiency of Member States' return work. Sweden supports several initiatives within the EU to ensure improved cooperation on readmission with third countries. It is urgent that we have a well-functioning return regime, and the government is therefore following developments in this area. When the interpeller reported that she was prevented from attending the sitting, the first Vice-President admitted that Mr Arin could instead take part in the debate.
i-50122f6f67175c22-160	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. We can begin at the end that, quite honestly, there are too many people who are now in Sweden illegally, although the figures when it comes to the number that has returned are high. It is estimated that the figure is up to 50,000 people. The Swedish Immigration Service's latest forecast, which came on 15 February, predicts that approximately 14,000 cases will be handed over to the police. Of these, 11 000 will depart and enter what we call a shadow society. The authorities don't know where they are – whether it's in Sweden or in another part of Europe – or whether they're alive. 3 000 will be enrolled under force, according to the forecast. I believe that this has been going on for too long in Sweden. That is one of the reasons why we have a polarised debate and that at least one party here in Parliament can capitalize on it. The debate is really about something quite different, but it uses various reasons and reasons to get its agenda through. I believe that if we are to have a society where a yes is a yes and a no is a no, those who live in Sweden must trust the system. If they do not trust the system, the person who has received a yes will be questioned from day one. Whether it is you or your parents who have come here and whether you are born here or not, there will always be some kind of mistrust. I don't want to live in such a society. For me, it's obvious that it's not those who come here that you should turn on. It is something nice to want to go to Sweden. I'm Armenian from Iran. None of the two countries is something you seek, but you seek out from them. I can make the comparison with what is good and nice with Sweden. But for us to be able to have a reception, ranging from labour immigration to helping people on the run and those who are most vulnerable, the system must be robust and a trust exists. Right now it doesn't exist. We know that the Migration Agency does not have time for its affairs, that the police are on their knees, that an unknown number of authorities are not coordinated, that there is a lack of resources within the police and that it is too easy to deviate. When it's easy to deviate, the talk goes to town. We can stand and say what we want in this House, but there is a reality outside. Out there it is very easy to hide from the Swedish authorities and very easy to get away, because we always make exceptions after exceptions. I think it should be a quick yes or a quick no. Then we will also reduce the human suffering of the people. I have a question for the Attorney General. There was an investigation, clarified identity, which in many ways is positive. But the Social Democrats had a proposal in May 2018, that the Migration Agency and the Police Authority should be given the authority to search and search IT tools. Unfortunately, this is missing from the proposal that the investigation came up with. Is the government prepared to make an addition or look at its own proposal? The proposal it made itself is very good.
i-50122f6f67175c22-167	Madam President, I would like With regard to the general debate on migration, I would first of all like to say that, now that we are seeing the end of the war in Syria, we can say that Sweden is one of the countries that has taken the greatest responsibility in Europe for precisely refugees from Syria. Since the war broke out in 2011, we have provided shelter for over 150 000 Syrians. Most of them came in 2015, and almost 100 per cent were granted a residence permit in Sweden. I am fundamentally extremely proud of this, because it is people who otherwise could well have perished in some bomb plot in Homs or Aleppo. Instead, they are here in security – men, women and children – and we are continuing with family reunifications for this group. I think this should be borne in mind. I think we made the greatest effort after the war to protect people from war. We have done this in these years. Once we have said this and if we are responsible for regulated immigration, we must also stick to the second part of this, namely that anyone who is refused their application must be prepared to go back. As I said, this does not apply to most Syrians, for there we have almost 100% approval. But this applies to many other groups, where each case is examined individually. It is the individual's need for protection that is being tested. Those who do not receive a residence permit in Sweden must be prepared to return to their home country. That's exactly what Arin Karapet says. If we do not carry out the expulsions, we have in practice introduced some kind of free immigration. If you have come to Sweden and then can stay here for a long time, in a shadow society, it will lead to very big worries. We cannot have this, but we must be able to stand up for the very rejection and return. In my reply, I said that we have had a fairly high rate of return: 70 000 over the last five years. So there are 1 000 people a month, and I believe that many believe that the figures are significantly lower and that the return is not working at all. In fact, this is not the case; it is 1 000 a month leaving Sweden. If you do not stand for regulated immigration, people are at risk of being exploited in Sweden by, for example, rogue employers. That is precisely why we introduced workplace inspections last year, which allow the police to enter industries, perhaps the construction industry or the restaurant industry, where we know from experience that many people do not have a residence permit in Sweden. They can go in and check that the rules are actually complied with. We have also doubled the penalties. Let's say an employer has ten employees who get to work for 30 kronor an hour and live in a basement under bad conditions. This employer may have to pay a fine of up to SEK 1 million if he or she has had ten employees for a longer period, so it is quite severe penalties that we have imposed on such employers. So we are squeezing employers who want to use this situation to exploit people. We are also expanding the detention centres. We've expanded them by 80%. Only during this month will additional detention sites be opened in Ljungbyhed in Skåne. We will open a new repository also in northern Sweden, in Luleå, next year. This is needed in order to be able to carry out these expulsions in a good way. I am prepared to take further action. However, I must say that we are well on the way to actually being able to resolve this situation.
i-50122f6f67175c22-175	Madam President, I would like I'll be honest with you. At one time, both our parties agreed on the issue of migration. Then it was loosened up for various reasons. A lot of things didn't work out, and some things were done wrong. But now it's 2019. My criticism of the government is that it is going too slow. This is not only about people who go to Sweden and get a yes, but it is also about how we have managed the migration flows that we have received over the past 30 years. What we are seeing today is a shadow society that is growing up. Generally, young people with foreign background fail in school. They don't have the Swedish language at home, they don't have the skills of their classmates with Swedish background, they may never have had a Swedish schoolmate and they might drop out of school. There are cultural differences. Coming to Sweden does not mean that you are reprogrammed during a five-hour flight. We must be humble there. I myself, who was born here and has two free academic parents, struggle with it sometimes. One asks: How do I get through the life and society that I find myself in? And where am I going? I'll get back to the problem. The Social Democrats had some good proposals before the elections. But after the formation of the government, they forget the good proposals and give in. I understand that it is politics and that it should be co-traded. The ban on municipal assistance to persons without the right to reside in the country is a perfect example. People who have been rejected and who are not supposed to be in Sweden receive municipal assistance, i.e. social assistance. This stings in the eyes of local residents. This leads to people feeling distrustful of welfare. They wonder if they will get their fair share when they need help. Will people have faith in the authorities and authorities? This also sends a signal that you can come to Sweden and do not have to comply with our laws and regulations, and if you deviate long enough you get help. It is clear that people will get help if they need emergency medical care and if it is a matter of life and death. There's one thing. But it is another thing to be able to live in a shadow society, where the contributions are directed to the children but where it is the guardian who has the money at his disposal. It will be a mischmasch and send completely the wrong signals to society.
i-50122f6f67175c22-181	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin is partly right that at times we have had a similar view of these issues, but not entirely. I remember what it was like in the 2014 election campaign. Then Fredrik Reinfeldt and the Moderates went to elections to open our hearts. But not everyone would open their hearts. In one breath, you said so. In the next breath you said that moderate municipalities should not have to receive any new arrivals. Then you do not want to change the EBO legislation either, which has diluted overcrowding and a lot of other social problems. What you went to elections in 2014 was: Open your hearts and show solidarity. But this was not the case with moderate municipalities. And those who come to Sweden should enter already crowded apartments on Lindängen, in Rosengård, in Tensta, in Bergsjön and in Hjällbo – i.e. in the already exposed areas. It was the policy of the Moderates at this time. We weren't in on that. Then we know how history developed. In 2015, we had the refugee crisis. I was responsible for migration at this time. Then I ended up in a situation where I had to help tighten up the legislation radically in order to gain control of the situation. Over 100,000 people came in four months — 10,000 a week. It is completely impossible for any asylum system to cope with. I went to Parliament with a proposal for ID checks to stop the flow. The Moderates couldn't vote for it. They abstained. The Centre Party voted against. But I got the legislation through anyway. It was absolutely crucial that the entire Swedish asylum system should not collapse at this time. During 2016 and 2017, we worked to process and manage all asylum applications that came in. Arin Karapet points to long processing times. I note that the length of proceedings has been greatly reduced. In fact, I believe that we are moving towards halving the processing times during this year. This means that we once again have a more normalized period than we had in the past. During this period, we have also worked very actively with the recipient countries that we are talking about. There is a readmission agreement with Afghanistan, for example. So when it comes to those who come from Afghanistan and are rejected, Afghanistan now accepts that they will return to their homeland. It's absolutely crucial for it to work. Morocco has been another concern. But it may not have been so much about asylum seekers from Morocco but about other people from Morocco who are staying in Europe for a long time – especially young people. In the past, we have had problems rejecting them back to their homeland. We now have cooperation with Morocco so that this situation can also be resolved. I think I could say that the measures we have taken – at the same time as we carry out workplace inspections and extend the number of detention centres – make it easier for us also to deal with readmission overall. On the other hand, what I see as a growing concern within the framework of the labour immigration system is that some people who receive residence permits here as labour immigrants and then for various reasons may not extend residence permits are still in Sweden. It is a lasting concern. But it is based on the legislation that the Moderates were once involved in pushing through on labour migration. There are no rules at all on whether we really need this type of workforce. I can take the fast food industry as an example. If you want to bring people here to work to turn burgers at McDonald's or Burger King, you can recruit them from Turkey, Iraq and Bangladesh. In fact, it is these three countries that are the biggest in this particular category. Then we understand that this is opening up to a very serious exploitation. I think that's a big concern.
i-50122f6f67175c22-192	Madam President, I would like I did not get an answer to my question whether the Social Democrats are going to push for the introduction of a national ban on municipalities paying financial assistance to people who are illegally in Sweden and are not entitled to stay here. The political debate in Sweden is more about talking about things that are completely different from the subject matter. I believe that if the decision-making body – state, municipalities, regions and county councils – does not tackle the problems we have today, it will be even worse in the future. The consequences that we are seeing today of the problems of integration are partly due to the fact that we have not had control over our migratory flows. Madam President, I would like I could give the same criticism to the Minister of Justice. The Prime Minister stood and said: My Europe does not build walls. Then the government introduced border controls. We could go back and forth like that. And we could sit a whole weekend together, the Attorney General and I, and just throw pie at each other. But that's not why I ran for the Swedish Parliament, and that's not why I became involved politically. I did that because I saw that things didn't work out in our society and that I wanted to change it. Sometimes I'm right, and sometimes I'm wrong. But what we are seeing on this issue is that Sweden stands out very much compared to other countries, that is, that we have a system in which there is little faith. There is no clear yes, and there is no clear no. If that's a no, you can deviate. If you deviate, we have municipalities that say: With us you can get X kroner in assistance. It's okay. The problem lies with the state, the police and the Migration Agency. This creates mistrust between those with foreign background and those living in this society. There will be an evil spiral in society. When does the Minister of Justice intend to come to the House with a proposal so that we can overcome the problems of Swedish migration and integration?
i-50122f6f67175c22-201	Madam President, I would like I have presented the measures we have taken. These are workplace inspections, which make it easier for the police to find those who stay here illegally and where we squeeze the employers who want to exploit the situation. This did not drive the Moderates. You have not been interested in it before, partly because you sometimes find it difficult to see that employers can behave in this way. Detention sites have been expanded and continue to expand. But I have not heard any suggestion from the Moderates that we should lock up anyone who is refused their application. In that case, we would have tens of thousands of individuals, men, women and children, to lock up. It's not a country that does. I heard that Arin Karapet said you could deviate. Yeah, that's the consequence of the fact that we can't lock up everyone who gets rejected. If we did, we would really have to build camps in Sweden, and I am not prepared to go that way. The problem of integration can only be solved by ensuring that the labour market continues to develop positively. We also see this very clearly in the very vulnerable areas, where there will be more jobs and social assistance dependency will decrease. That's what makes it possible to get there. Furthermore, if we can resolve the EBO issue, that is to say ensure that asylum seekers are not referred to a narrow apartment in one of the vulnerable areas, I would say that it will have a very significant impact on integration. I would like to add both Afghanistan and Morocco. We have several other countries with which we must ensure that we have good cooperation, but these are two examples. I am happy to take part in further discussions on how to further strengthen return, because I also understand, of course, that if you do not solve this and work towards it, you reduce the legitimacy of the policy as such.
i-50122f6f67175c22-207	Madam President, I would like Christina Höj Larsen has asked me whether the government has evaluated the agreement with Afghanistan and, if so, on what basis, and what conclusions were reached. She has also asked whether I intend to take any initiatives to respond to the appeal of the Afghan Government to stop expulsions and expulsions to Afghanistan. Initially, I would like to emphasise that Sweden has one of the most legally secure asylum systems in the world. Afghans seeking asylum in Sweden who are deemed to be in need of international protection are granted a residence permit in accordance with the Aliens Act. The Finnish Immigration Service and the Migration Courts decide on asylum applications after an individual examination in each individual case. The Finnish Immigration Service has access to a comprehensive information base that is used in the assessment of the need for protection. These include information from international organisations and other states as well as from their own visits to the countries in question. The assessment also includes an assessment of the security situation in the home country. Of course, the Finnish Immigration Service is constantly following developments in Afghanistan. However, those who are not deemed to have sufficient grounds for granting a residence permit must return. Afghanistan, like all other countries, has a public law obligation to receive its own citizens who have been rejected or expelled from Sweden. That obligation applies notwithstanding readmission agreements. Sweden and Afghanistan signed a bilateral Memorandum of Understanding on readmission in autumn 2016. The agreement is in force and functioning satisfactorily. It can normally be terminated by either party, but this has not happened. The agreement is thus supported by both the Swedish and Afghan Governments. The EU also concluded a readmission agreement with Afghanistan in autumn 2016. This agreement can also be applied by Sweden. Swedish and Afghan authorities are in constant contact with the implementation of expulsions and are able to inform each other of any shortcomings in the application of the agreement. The Police Authority and the Migration Agency have each return liaison officer put d at the embassy in Kabul. Their duties include, inter alia, contacting Afghan representatives in return cases.
i-50122f6f67175c22-212	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Afghanistan is one of the most dangerous countries in the world. UNAMA began to conduct statistics on civilian victims in the country in 2009. 2018 was by far the bloodiest year since it began to document the number of civilians injured and killed. There were 10,993 civilians injured – an increase of 5 per cent. There were 3,804 deaths – an increase of 11%, of which 927 are children. It is the highest number in a year since the measurement began. Half of all suicide attacks occurred in Kabul. We also know that violence has changed and escalated and that civilians are increasingly being used as symbolic targets on all sides, both from the Taliban and from the IS or Daish. We see attacks on schools, hospitals and festivals. We see that hostile forces are taking over ever larger areas. In 2015, the Taliban controlled about 25-30 percent of the territory, but now it is 43 percent. IS controls large and important joints. We see a dramatic increase in poverty. We see an increase in starving children and children in malnutrition. We see refugees being pushed back from Pakistan and Iran, as one can well see in response to the tough policies of the Western world. This is also seen in neighbouring countries, where there are millions of Afghans. It is therefore a security situation that is deteriorating, where the state is completely unwilling and/or able to protect the population from violence, persecution and discrimination. It also lacks the will and/or ability to give the population access to the security they need and to basic public services. Mr. Old President! We know that it is against this background that both the Red Cross and Amnesty International are calling for an end to forced expulsions to Afghanistan. In their view, it is neither relevant nor reasonable to refer to an IDP for any forced expulsion anywhere in the country. It is because of this difficult and deteriorating security situation as well as worsening socio-economic conditions that the UNHCR is now assessing that Kabul is not an IDP option. It is precisely in this light, Mr President-in-Office, that we must see the readmission of the Memorandum of Understanding with Afghanistan. Despite all this international and well-informed knowledge of the situation in the country, the government chooses to allow the agreement to continue. The agreement includes: The Parties shall take specific measures to ensure that vulnerable groups receive adequate protection, assistance and care throughout the return and re-establishment process and that the Government of Afghanistan, together with the other concerned, shall take the necessary measures to ensure that Afghan citizens abroad can return without the risk of harassment, threats, persecution, discrimination and violence. In its reply, the Government considers the agreement to be working satisfactorily. I have just made a selection from international organisations and the UN, which describes a situation that stands in stark contrast to what is described in the agreement. Mr. Old President! My questions are therefore: what do the Government know that international aid and human rights organisations apparently do not know? What makes the Government so secure with forced expulsions to violence and insecurity Afghanistan?
i-50122f6f67175c22-221	Mr. Old President! When you listen to Christina Höj Larsen it almost sounds like Sweden does not grant any Afghans a residence permit at all. It's not like that. Last year 8 600 Afghans were granted a residence permit in Sweden. In addition, we granted an additional 1 600 residence permits to relatives of asylum seekers and quota refugees. In total, over 10 000 Afghans were granted a residence permit in Sweden. That's it. But it is also the case that each case is examined separately. Each case is examined to see whether or not you have a need for protection, and it is the courts that decide on each occasion and in each individual case whether you have a need for protection or not. Christina Höj Larsen claims in her interpellation that Afghanistan has appealed that we should stop the return journeys and tear up the agreement. No, they haven't. It is even the case that the agreement is extended. It may be terminated at any time, by Sweden or by Afghanistan, but the Government of Afghanistan has not asked for it to be demolished or terminated. So this is wrong. The question is then where Christina Höj Larsen and Left Party are on the basic question. About 15 years ago, we transferred the decisions on these matters to the courts. The fact that courts would make the individual decisions was a reform that the Left Party pursued and wanted to see. Now that the courts are doing exactly that job, the Left Party and Christina Höj Larsen do not want to follow the court decisions. You are pushing for legislation that you then do not want to comply with. What do you call it? You can't really do that. If it has been said that it must be courts that decide this because it becomes most legally certain, you cannot take back the decision-making right to Parliament again. Then we will be sitting in Parliament, as was done in the Foreign Affairs Board before, and politically deciding which countries' refugees we should grant residence permits and not. If you do as Christina Höja Larsen – first enforces legislation where the courts are supposed to do this, then does not accept the court rulings and then on top of that wants to tear up the readmission agreement that allows us to refer back those who receive no – in practice, the regulated asylum immigration has been abandoned. Instead, it has embarked on the path to free immigration. That will be the effect: If you can't reject those who get no, it's enough that you have come to Sweden, because then it doesn't matter if the courts say yes or no. No matter what they say, you will remain in Sweden. This means that we no longer have regulated asylum immigration, but only a kind of free immigration – precisely from Afghanistan. There is also a question I would like to ask Christina Höj Larsen: Does she mean that we are going to flip Afghanistan out as a country where politics is going to take over, where it is we who are going to decide how the safety assessments are going to be done? Is Afghanistan the only country she thinks we should flip out, or is it also other countries? No, Mr. Old President, there is no easy way out of this. Once it has been said that asylum immigration is regulated, responsibility must also be taken for cases where the courts actually say no. It must also be ensured that it is possible for those who have no return to their country of origin. It's a principle that I stand for.
i-50122f6f67175c22-229	Mr. Old President! This is not a question of regulated immigration. The task of the Parliament is also to examine whether existing legislation is being complied with. I have no other opinion than that the current procedural order should continue, but when I see things that do not work, it is my job as a Member of Parliament to point it out and question it before the Government. That's why I'm here today. That's why we have interpellations, quite simply. The crucial point here is the issue of internal flight. IDP is nothing binding but something that countries can choose to have or not to have. Italy does not apply IDP at all. There is a contradiction here with countries that have internal conflicts but still choose to apply an IDP. The risk that exists in countries with internal conflicts is very high. It is very difficult to predict what will happen from one moment to the next. An area that is certainly one moment can two weeks or six months later be in blazing conflict. That is the situation we are facing. The question also relates to the link between how you view IDP and this agreement, which paints a picture that it is perfectly safe and safe to return and that there is a state that has both the will and the ability to maintain people's security and security as well as the basic public service. A number of heavy international organisations, including the United Nations, say that we cannot. The government says here that Afghanistan has not terminated the agreement. That's absolutely true. We know that the pressure on Afghanistan has been on aid. The agreement is linked to assistance. If Afghanistan terminates the agreement, they will lose important aid that they need in their daily lives and in their reconstruction in a situation where everything is getting much worse. We also know that the country's Deputy Minister for Refugees, Mr Alema Alema, already appealed to the whole of the EU in the summer of 2017. There are clear quotes from Svenska Dagbladet. Morgan Johansson says there that Afghanistan has not contacted the Swedish government. That's what I have to go on. This was an Alema to the whole of the European Union. In addition, Minister Balkhi and I are currently sending a letter to all individual European embassies in Afghanistan in which we appeal not to send people to Afghanistan now. ..................................................... I know that the Swedish Embassy has received such a letter. It is clear that this appeal is as far as you can go if you do not want to risk losing your aid. That's the fox trap Afghanistan's in. Unless this appeal is clear enough to the Minister for Migration, it makes me wonder a little bit. The Deputy Minister for Refugees goes on to say over and over again that there are safe regions in Afghanistan and that people can live in these regions. But you know that this is no longer true. ..................................................... This is what the Deputy Minister for Refugees says. Yet the Government apparently feels that this is in a different way. What does the Government know that the rest of us do not know?
i-50122f6f67175c22-237	Mr. Old President! I know what the Afghan Government is saying and what it is not saying. I cannot go on what individual ministers say. If the Government of Afghanistan wishes to terminate the agreement, they may do so. They're completely free. At the same time, there is a commitment in international law to always be prepared, at all times, to receive their own citizens. This applies to everyone, whether we have agreements or not. The agreement aims to ensure that, in cases where we need to make readmissions, these should take place in the most legally secure and good form possible. That's what the deal is about. I think it is good that there is such an agreement in place. Otherwise, the shapes might have become significantly worse. However, I have to go on what the Afghan Government says as a government. There is no such request to terminate the agreement. Christina Höj Larsen says that it is not a question of regulated immigration. Yes, Mr. Old President, that's exactly what it is. This is a question of regulated immigration versus free immigration. If you are unable to stand up for a no if there is a rejection of an asylum application, we have effectively introduced free immigration. That is also the problem with the position of the Left Party in this debate. You have been involved in pushing forward a reform that will refer the decisions in individual cases to the courts. Christina Höja Larsen asks me what I know about whether there are IDP options and how the security situation is, but it is not me who makes those decisions. Following the legislation that the Left Party has had to enforce, it is the courts that make those decisions. You have to respect that. In one breath she says that the courts should make these decisions, because she was involved in pushing this forward. In the next breath, she says: but not exactly with regard to Afghanistan. There, politicians will decide whether or not there are IDP options and interfere in court proceedings. In the third breath, she says: If there is still a no, we will tear up the agreement so that we will not be able to refer back those who receive a no. This is nothing else, Mr President-in-Office, but to introduce free immigration from Afghanistan in practice. I'm not prepared to contribute, but that's what the system looks like. Then it sounds at Christina Höja Larsen that no one gets a residence permit. As I said, over 10 000 people from Afghanistan received a residence permit last year, and they received it in the light of the fact that these very courts had examined whether or not they had a need for protection and, in each individual case, found that they had. That's how the system works, and that's what I stand for. Another way would be for the policy to withdraw these decisions and for us to introduce free immigration from Afghanistan in practice, and I do not want that.
i-50122f6f67175c22-244	Mr. Old President! No, I don't want free immigration from Afghanistan. This does not concern Afghanistan, but I am raising an issue relating to situations of internal conflict. Then there is a very difficult problem around internal escape as an alternative. That's what I'm lifting here, and that's what I'm trying to discuss, even if Morgan Johansson wants to pretend like I think things I don't think. The agreement is a little bit of an air castle that lets suggest that there are opportunities for IDP that actually do not exist. The government of Afghanistan knows that they do not exist, but it is committed to wanting aid, and all international organisations know that they do not exist. But Morgan Johansson would like us to believe that they do. The gap between the reality described by the major international organisations and what is promised in the agreement is enormous. In that gap there are real people, Mr President of the Age, who are experiencing the consequences of the government turning a blind eye to that reality. Up in the gallery in this Chamber there are a lot of people who know something about exactly that. We know that the agreement has not been kept for the forced expulsion of particularly vulnerable persons. Severely ill people are forced to be expelled but sent back from Afghanistan because they cannot be offered medical care, yet enforcement remains. Families with small children will have very little opportunity to protect their children from forced marriage, forced recruitment and so on. Convertites and atheists seeking protection because of their convictions will not be protected and protected by the Afghan State. Young men who have never lived in Afghanistan before have very little opportunity to make it there except if they join the combatants. This is reality. It is not about us wanting free immigration. It is about that we want Sweden to live up to the obligations we have assumed. When we say in the agreement that we should not expel anyone to such situations as I mentioned, I expect that is what we are doing. That is what the issue is about today. After this debate, I have nine petitions and a report that I am happy to hand over to the Minister for Migration, because there are very many people who are looking at this and wondering what the government is going to do.
i-50122f6f67175c22-249	Mr. Old President! The government, of course, intends to comply with the law that exists and that the Left Party itself has been involved in enforcing, that is to say that it is courts that make decisions in individual cases. If you see that there is a need for protection for a person, you also give asylum. As I said, it was over 10 000 people from Afghanistan who received asylum last year. However, if you say there is no need for protection – and it is the courts that make the assessment of IDP alternatives or other circumstances – you will instead reject. If rejected, it must also be possible for the authorities to make practical arrangements to ensure that the person concerned can go back. If we do not do so, if there is no possibility of re-routing, we will end up in the situation that there will be some kind of free immigration. If you have come to Sweden, it doesn't matter if you get a yes or no or whatever the courts say as there is no practical possibility to execute the expulsions. Actually, I don't understand the position of the Left Party. In one breath you say it is the courts who decide. In the second breath it is said that it should not apply to Afghanistan, because then the Left Party will decide what is to apply and what is not to apply. Then, in the third breath, it is said that it will not be possible to return to Afghanistan even if it becomes a no. Then, Mr. Age President, free immigration from Afghanistan has been introduced. I won't stand for that.
i-50122f6f67175c22-251	Mr. Old President! Lars Beckman has asked me how I believe that consumers should be able to make active and informed choices of EMV products unless it says who is the manufacturer and there is information about the country of origin. Good information is a prerequisite for consumers to make informed and sustainable choices. There is a great deal of interest today in where the food comes from and what it contains, and so does Lars Beckman's interpellation, as he has previously asked me the same thing in a written question. I replied then that the general rules governing the labelling of foodstuffs within the Union, and thus also in Sweden, are set out in Regulation No 1169/ 2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of food information to consumers, the so-called "formulation regulation". The rules shall apply to all foods intended for consumers. For example, in the case of pre-packaged foods, it is mandatory to indicate, among other things, the list of ingredients, the nutrition declaration and the food business operator responsible for the food information. Thus, the legislation makes no distinction as to whether it concerns the trade's own branded products, so-called EMV products or the suppliers' branded products, so-called LMV products. In the case of foods that are not pre-packaged, such as baking of f-bread s if Lars Beckman addresses in his interpellation, it is only mandatory to inform if the food contains allergenic ingredients and processing aids. Other information is up to the Member States to adopt national provisions. According to the Swedish Food Safety Agency's regulations (LIVSFS 2014:4), information must be provided if requested by the consumer on ingredients, contact details of the company that prepared or packaged the food and the country of origin of certain foods. As regards country of origin information, the general rules of the Information Regulation are complemented by provisions of other legal frameworks. Today, it is mandatory to indicate the country of origin of beef, pig meat, poultry, sheep and goats, fish – then the area of catch – fresh fruit and vegetables including mushrooms, wine, olive oil and eggs. This applies regardless of whether they are EMV or LMV products. If a Member State wishes to introduce national rules on mandatory origin labelling for more products, it must be notified to the European Commission in accordance with the Information Regulation. There is always the possibility of supplementing the mandatory provisions by voluntarily providing additional information provided that it is correct and not misleading. In Sweden, for example, we have since 2016 the voluntary origin marking. Today, consumers can find the symbol for the label, including dairy and meat products and pre-packaged bread, and this applies both to EMV products and LMV products. I would like to conclude by saying that I think it is important for consumers to be able to make informed and sustainable choices whether they are EMV products or LMV products.
i-Nbov1zEoemMadQt4yqtUpD	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to begin by agreeing with the Government that this is an important issue for us consumers. It is so important that I have with me a number of party members from Gävleborg who are sitting in the gallery and who are of course involved in consumer issues. Mr. Old President! What does defence policy, defence preparedness and an assault situation have to do with this interpellation? It may even have more to do with it than we might think. When we go into a store today, whether it's Konsum, Ica or any other chain, it's important for us consumers to be able to make conscious and active choices. A product group that has grown fast in the shops is baking-off, and I was myself inside an Ica store yesterday where it smelled freshly baked throughout the store. When you buy that bread you may not think that the bread may not be from Sweden at all and benefit Swedish agriculture. The bake-off I bought in the store yesterday may be from a low-cost country somewhere in Europe. It doesn't have to be wrong with those products, Mr. Old President. Of course, you should buy what you want and what you think is good. But it is important that consumers can make an active and conscious choice. It is difficult to do so when it is not marked from which country the product comes. I think that the Government's response is passive when she says that we do not demand it in Sweden today. She refers to reporting it to the EU. And then you'll have to do it. There are also other active tools that a minister could take the initiative to use. One is to reason with the chains. The retail chains are no more than that one can reason with them and say that it is important that we consumers have the opportunity to get that information. Mr. Old President! What happens if Swedish bread production is eliminated? What happens if bakery after bakery disappears? What happens if bread production becomes too centralised, if we have some big bakeries left in any part of Sweden; what happens in an assault situation if no one bakes bread locally anymore? Of course, I do not need to inform the Government about this, but there may be others who do not think that if the frozen bread is to be shipped from the Czech Republic to Sweden, there must be transport facilities up to Sweden. It has been and is a strength in Sweden that we have many small, local and regional bakeries. This allows us both to buy bread that has been transported sufficiently far and to have access to such an important and essential thing as food in an assault situation. In some areas we consumers are very active and aware, for example in the case of meat. That's what the government says in the answer. Many consumers make an active choice today and only want to buy Swedish meat. You know it's more expensive, but animal husbandry is better. It benefits Swedish agriculture and chooses to buy Swedish. Other households choose to buy Danish pork fillet. There's nothing wrong with that. But at least an active choice has been made. It is a problem with chain EMV products and batch-off that it is not clear to us consumers where the products come from. I think that you as a consumer should know where it is made and by whom.
i-50122f6f67175c22-267	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Lars Beckman, for setting this intersection! Thank you, too, for developing your reasoning. Given how it was set from the beginning, it was not quite clear exactly what was requested. We start at the end where you started, with the link to defence policy and thus to a Swedish, national need to ensure that we are self-sufficient enough to cope with crisis or war. It is an issue that is currently high on the political agenda. It is discussed in many committees. From my perspective and my area of responsibility, there are two issues that are particularly important and that we deal with. It's food and drinking water. As far as food is concerned, we have dealt primarily with this issue within the framework of the food strategy. It aims to increase domestic production on all food, not just wheat or grain that we are talking about here. We have done this in dialogue with the industry in the first place, but also with other social actors, such as the Swedish Armed Forces and those parts in terms of what is required in these areas. The objective and purpose are clear. The focus of the old strategy, which I believe will be a key element, although we will expand and sharpen it in Action Plan number two, has been to ensure that more can be produced at home. This is done both by investing in increasing value added and by increasing production. It should be possible to sell in a market in peacetime and have sufficient volumes and profitability in that process. I can only say that Sweden is a small market, even for food. This means that it is important to have a clearer export strategy linked to food. It will perhaps be the main basis when we look at the possibility of ensuring that you can produce with good profitability in Sweden. This allows us to have sufficient volumes and to be prepared in the event of being cut off from the outside world, for whatever reason. It is a solid and comprehensive work that must be long-term. I can agree with Lars Beckman's input that it is important for consumers to be able to make informed choices. Here again, I would like to highlight the voluntary option. It has had a huge impact in a short time. Actors and industries voluntarily mark up their goods. They have also found that it provides added value that means that they can charge better for their products, because customers want Swedish. I think there are 9 200 products covered– I may be a little wrong. From cereals to vegetables and meat, voluntary labelling applies. I think that this is a better way to go in the first place than to introduce rules, which is the alternative we are talking about. Rules tend to make it expensive and complicated for companies. Me and Lars Beckman, or at least our parties, usually think it's a bad thing. We also usually think that rules are something we should have less and no more of. Volunteering, at least when it works, is almost always preferable.
i-50122f6f67175c22-275	Mr. Old President! When it comes to having competitive rules for business, I and the Government are in complete agreement. We should not have new charges and costs. On the contrary, we must reduce the regulatory burden and improve the conditions for Swedish business. To write on a product, where there is still a text on the back, who made it and in which country, on the other hand, is a very small change. It doesn't cost money either. The label should still be printed. I was having a good time being a consumer. For reasons of competition, I went to a Coop store and an Ica store. I tried to be an active consumer and looked at selected products. There it could say, for example: Made for Coop Sweden. That is, of course, important information. I'm in a Coop store. But perhaps it is not the consumer information I need when choosing between two products. One can be made for Coop Sweden and five SEK cheaper than a brand product that may be made in Sweden. That's the kind of information we're talking about. I do not think it would be too burdensome for Coop Sweden in this case to add a line of text where it says: Made for Coop Sweden in the Czech Republic by someone. I think it would be affordable. I also think it is a good thing that the industry itself is taking initiatives in this area. I note, for example, that Sweden's bakers & conditors have developed an industry agreement where the member companies have agreed, for example, how much whole grain a whole grain bread should contain and what is required for a bread to be classified as stone oven baked. It is incredibly good when the industry itself takes the initiative and agrees on different things. As the Government said, it will be long-term and long-term when it is the industry that does one thing, and the industry itself is of course most familiar with what applies. When Swedish bakers have now agreed on what is a stone oven baked bread and what is fibre, it is important that all actors in the food industry adopt this industry agreement. When I go into my grocery store, for example to buy baking-off, I will therefore be able to trust that the information is comparable. I think the government and our authorities could be a little more active here. It would be good for us consumers to be able to see in the bread shelf, for example, that the baking-off that is there comes from the Czech Republic. I don't think it would be very exhausting or costly. That doesn't mean I'm not going to buy it. But at least I want to be aware of where the product comes from, if I buy it. It would be valuable. This is important. As the Government and I fully agree, it is important for defence policy considerations and in the event of an assault. We should be able to eat and drink even in such a situation. But it is also important from the point of view of the competitiveness of Swedish business. When we impose rules and costs, for example, taxes for industry are increased by 60 billion, the products from Sweden become a little more expensive. Then it is important that we consumers can make conscious and active choices. EMV products, i.e. their own branded products, are currently taking on a larger and larger share of retail sales. It still doesn't have to be wrong, but one should in any case be able to be aware of where the products come from and who made them so that I, as a consumer, can know and have that knowledge.
i-50122f6f67175c22-285	Mr. Old President! Both me and Lars Beckman, like most other politicians, assume that it is normally not so complicated when you want to introduce something new that does not exist. This is probably also something that both me and Lars Beckman have had views on in the opposite direction when it came to someone else's proposal. All forms of rules introduced to ensure something should be balanced against the benefits. That must be the basic principle. I don't think you should be fooled, although it's very tempting to say that we should definitely introduce markings on these things because it's very important that we produce Swedish. I can strongly sympathise with this view, but I do not believe that one should be fooled into thinking that it does not involve a regulatory burden and a cost if this is done. This must be balanced against a benefit. Lars Beckman mentioned that they have looked at and made their own agreements on how much whole grain bread should contain. If you are to have a label, it must be quality assured. Then you have to determine how much of the bread is produced in Sweden and how much is produced elsewhere. The whole thing is much more complicated than it looks at first sight. I can only say what facts we have so far on the table. I read out a long list of things that are part of things that, according to the European Commission, should be originating. The EU has also looked at, for example, cereals and a wide range of other products which are not currently covered by various regulations regulated by the EU. This has been looked at several times. On each occasion, it has been noted that the benefit, as can be estimated at the present time, does not correspond to the increased cost and regulatory burden that it would entail for producers. I have no reason today to question this part. However, we look closely at and follow developments in this area. We have found that there are a number of countries that have chosen to inform the EU that they extend the origin marking on products other than those regulated by the EU Regulation. These include Finland, France, Portugal and Italy, for example. The most common is milk and meat products. There I see little reason for the Swedish part to do the same given that virtually all of this range in Sweden is connected or can join voluntary labelling. This is quite simple. It becomes much more complicated when it comes to products that contain several different types of ingredients, such as bread. In such a situation, I think it is very important to continue with information. I think, once again, that the voluntary option that Sweden has is a good one. For the consumer who wants to make a conscious choice, it is in the range of at least both Coop and Ica – in any case when I have shopped in these stores – rarely or never just their own products. There are also other products that are labelled and labelled from Sweden. This means that you can make a choice to buy from Sweden. My recommendation to anyone who wants to be sure to benefit Swedish agriculture or Swedish production of any food to always choose something that has the mark
i-50122f6f67175c22-292	Mr. Old President! The Government and I fully agree that we should protect Swedish food production and that we as consumers need help to make active and conscious choices. We shall be aware, Mr President-in-Office, that the retail chains today have enormous power. I do not believe that there is any single manufacturer selling to any of the major food services which would at any point be in a superior position or in a stronger position than Coop or ICA, for example. The retail chains run today with an iron hand. I therefore believe that it is a political task to argue with the retail chains. In some cases, this House must also legislate – the government must produce legislative proposals – to make it easier for us consumers. There are producers who want to sell, consumers who want to make active and conscious choices and chains who, probably rationally, see that they can achieve much higher profitability on their own branded products. The products often come from low-cost countries where food production is not subject to the same requirements as we do in our country. I used a very close example where there is a major structural change at the moment due to, among other things, baking-off products coming from low-cost countries. In the worst case, these products dramatically worsen the conditions for bakery products in Sweden. This, in turn, could lead to quite a few of us going hungry, since there would then be no bread. We also knock out the Swedish farmer when he or she is not allowed to sell to the Swedish bread manufacturer. Basically, however, we seem to agree. Maybe it's more about how we're going to achieve the goal. I believe that the government has every reason to look at this issue and to take initiatives.
i-50122f6f67175c22-297	Mr. Old President! Thank you for a good and important interpellation, Lars Beckman! I think, just like Lars Beckman, that there is a fairly large consensus on the issue. This applies both to the importance of having a policy that makes it possible for Swedish agriculture not only to remain but also to be able to develop. Food strategy is our most important tool when we are currently working on these issues. We do so in close dialogue with industry organisations. To this can be linked a discussion that is high on the political agenda, and it concerns precisely what is defence-related. You look at how you can strengthen civil defence in a variety of areas. It includes both food and drinking water. If there is reason, and we see that it is necessary, to make further proposals, the government will of course do so. We are very keen to have a good policy in this area. I am also very keen that it has a broad political base, because I believe that long-term rules of play are necessary for this. With regard to the points that Lars Beckman made in his last speech, and which relate to the power of the retail trade, I share his view that there may be cause for dialogue. We will, of course, have a dialogue on this and other issues with all sectors which in different ways affect the situation in terms of ensuring that both today and in the long term we have good conditions for the country's farmers.
