i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-0	Madam President, I would like We Moderates have asked for this debate in the light of the fact that gang crime and the gross violence that follows in its wake are fundamentally changing Sweden. Arrangements outside preschools, shootings in open places in the middle of crowds, explosions inside apartment buildings – these scenes are recognized from Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, and all are the pictures of Sweden 2019. Linköping, Eskilstuna, Örebro and Uppsala are also affected, as are many other locations around the country. Hopefully, this debate can both show how the various parties want to face the growing problems of gang crime and insecurity and clarify differences between us.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-2	Madam President, I would like The gross violence of young, criminal men in public squares and residential areas is one of our greatest social problems. In Västerås, the police are currently gathering to investigate recent shootings. At the same time, six people are arrested after a person has been shot in Kramfors during the weekend. In Malmö a few weeks ago we had a series of blasts and shootings in just a couple of days. On June 7, ordinary people woke up in a couple of hundred apartments in Linköping because glass fragments rained into the apartments. It was only an angel watchman who caused no one to die in that explosion; for all who visited the place it is clear how headless the offender or offender has acted. It has been completely ignored whether innocent people were harmed. I have chosen to travel a lot in the country since I was appointed Minister of the Interior, and I have seen the consequences of violence on the ground in Malmö and Linköping as well as in several other cities. I get pissed off and determined to see how people are affected. Gang crime should not be allowed to terrorize residential areas and ordinary people who try to live their lives. This is therefore a priority for both the police and the government. Last year there were 306 shootings and 162 cases of public destruction by blasting. My reply is clear: these figures are going down, and they are going down permanently. This requires that we take a holistic approach to the problem and are sustained in our efforts. We need to be sustained in our efforts at more police officers, sustained in our efforts to tighten penalties and better tools and persevere in the prevention of crime. First of all, the historically great efforts that are now being made on the Swedish police are crucial for us to be able to stop organised crime. 10 000 more police workers by 2024 will make a big difference for a stronger society and a safer Sweden. Last week 563 new police assistants started working around the country – 14 reinforce the police in Östergötland, and 38 came to the police area in Malmö. They will be followed by many, many more in the coming years. It now begins more than twice as many in police training as when the government took office. Two new courses have been opened, in Malmö and Borås, and we will continue to expand. However, the police also need to have more tools to fight crime with. On 1 October, data storage opportunities will be extended to facilitate the identification of criminal groupings. At the turn of the year, the police will have increased opportunities to set up cameras without having to apply for a permit, a change that both the police and the municipalities are looking forward to. Besides, we're tightening up the penalties. We are already seeing a major impact of the strengthened arms legislation – there are five times more people in custody for serious weapons offences, and more than 1 000 firearms were seized last year. There are more than 20 guns a week, and there will be more. The effect of these measures will not overnight, but we will see the effect over time. It will require determination and resources to reverse a development that has been allowed to last for a long time, but the goal is clear: The gang's violence will be suppressed.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-9	Madam President, I would like The gross violence is tearing up the society we know and the country we want Sweden to be. A total of 60 areas are now classified as vulnerable, and the mistrust of society's ability to deal with crime and the many shootings is unfortunately high. Drug trafficking is conducted on an open street. Hand grenades and explosives are used in dealings between criminals and in attacks against the police. Parallel social structures that seriously threaten the social contract are emerging. We Moderates have previously presented extensive efforts on more police forces to maintain security and security and prosecute crime. A special salary effort is needed to get more police officers to stay in the profession and to facilitate future recruitment. We have also proposed a special gang rule that would double the penalties for those who commit a gang-related crime. Visiting zones would make it easier for the police to look for weapons and explosives. At the same time, the current amount rebate should be abolished, so that criminals can be held accountable for more of the crimes they commit. Adults between 18 and 21 years of age should not regularly receive reduced penalties due to their age. The conditional release rules need to be tightened up and the legislation needs to be amended so that more foreign citizens are expelled to their home countries. However, this will not be enough. I would therefore like to present two further urgent reforms: firstly, the penalty should be increased for those caught with explosives in public places, and secondly, monitoring cameras urgently need to be set up in places where there is a risk of new explosions. The resource addition to our moderate budget also creates room for the number of cameras to be up to four times as many as they are today. The Red - Green government has had five years to reverse this trend but is still fumbling for answers in terms of growing insecurity. Responsible ministers do not seem to understand the extent of the problems we see or have a long-term plan to reverse developments. It is simply not enough for Mikael Damberg to go out and do some quick television interviews in places where it has just been shot or blown up, because what the Swedish people expect right now is clear reforms and political action. Criminal gangs must not be allowed to take hold of vulnerable suburbs, beat the claws of shopkeepers and drag children and young people into crime and abuse. The fact that people in this country are waking up to the sound of bombs blowing up in residential areas or worrying about children meeting in the crossfire from the shootings of criminal gangs must never be a new normal state. Putting an end to the growing violence, restoring security in streets and squares and making people safe again is the great issue of freedom of our time.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-15	Madam President, I would like Serious organized crime still persists in our society. The number of vulnerable areas remains. The segregation and exclusion has become a permanent normal image in Sweden. It is usually said from the left in the debate that you should be tough on crime but also tough on the root causes of crime. But, Madam President, government policy promotes both crime and the root causes of crime. Once it was thought that the Social Democracy had understood the link between the segregation that underlies crime and irresponsible migration and tightened up immigration, the government is now returning to an even more irresponsible immigration policy. Madam President, I would like Cultural exclusion areas are condemned with a red-green government policy. Criminality will also continue to be well placed with the policy of the Red-Green Government. For almost a decade now, the Swedish Democrats have wanted to see a battery of legislative proposals against organised crime. Among other things, it is a question of criminalising participation in a criminal organisation, that is, the same principle that underpins the controversial law on participation in terrorist organisations. Furthermore, we have stubbornly debated and exercised for a system of Crown Witnesses, and we have finally managed to bring together a majority for this in this House. The government has promised to return to this issue, and that is a good thing. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats demand that the government, in connection with the investigation of witnesses and increased support for witnesses, also include something for which the Swedish Democrats have fought hard and won the support of the House: that one should be able to testify anonymously against organised crime. As part of the streamlining of police tasks in order to focus on gang environments, we want the Swedish Armed Forces to be able to assist the police in certain tasks, such as security and guarding tasks. This is something that we have highlighted in previous debates on precisely gang crime and police resources. Madam President, I would like The fact that criminal policy is not the parade of the red-green parties has been very clear. The deadly violence with firearms continues. Explosives and shootings affect not only the criminals involved, but also ordinary people – often in vulnerable areas – who require security. It's our damn duty to act. Those of you who listen to this debate should know that the Swedish Democrats hear you. We are working hard to drive the government ahead of us. We are also working to broaden the support for our proposals among other parties. But if you want to see a real change, it is not enough to allow a red-green government to implement a number of percent of the Swedish democrats' criminal policy. Then you voters must give priority to security in your choice of party, and more voters must become Swedish democrats.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-25	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to thank the Moderates, who have initiated this extremely important and urgent debate. Sweden is a fantastic country with great challenges, as we usually call it. However, we must also recognise that we are facing real and major problems. Organised crime and gang crime are a real problem here and now. We have reached a point where, unfortunately, we are no longer surprised to read about new shootings, killings, bombings, and more. It's serious now. Let us admit: in the long term, 10 000 more police officers are a very good and important initiative, but urgent action is needed here and now. Organised crime and gang crime have become increasingly serious. This has in recent years taken the form of the explosion of the police house in my own hometown of Helsingborg, recurring shootings of death across the country – not least in Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm – and most recently the explosion of an apartment house in Linköping. There have been many completely unacceptable events lately, but let us be honest: it is a development that has been going on for years. This is an event that concerns many and contributes to increased perceived insecurity. This will require efforts, and 10 000 more police workers, on whom we and the government agree, are very good and a step in the right direction. But it is also important that we invest in the entire legal chain and the entire judicial system in the form of Customs, Säpo, the Prosecution Authority and the judiciary. This applies not least to the urgent needs that we see in the prison services. Madam President, I would like During this parliamentary year, the Riksdag has made very many wise decisions on announcements in the area of justice. It is, to mention a few examples, about everything from Crown Witnesses to the fact that the Riksdag only last Wednesday decided on stricter penalties for arms crimes and smuggling and on its own criminal classification for arms smuggling. I will not say that Parliament has done its part. Of course, the Center Party would have liked to see more wise decisions, such as increased responsibility for crime prevention in municipalities, the care of young people who need to be moved from harmful environments and greater powers for the Customs Agency. But right now, the ball lies with the government when it comes to responding quickly and well to the announcements that have been made by the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like Gang crime and organised crime are a problem here and now. It is a problem that does not have a quick and simple solution, but it is a problem that requires action from the government.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-34	Madam President, I would like Violence is a national crisis, and the Left Party wants a commission to be set up based on research and experience in building a secure society. When the only solution of the government and the bourgeois opposition is harsher punishment and overcrowded institutions, the Left Party takes to create real security. This is done by tackling the very root cause of crime, which is economic injustice. Sweden is being drawn apart financially. Those who are rich are getting richer, and those who are economically tough are getting poorer. The upper middle class RUTs and ROTs; the working class runs on SMS jobs. Those living in the suburbs or in a vulnerable area are told through newspaper headlines and oneliners of political parties that their residential area is dangerous and that extra security guards, extra cameras and perhaps even curfews are needed. Crimes and class divisions are connected. We are still waiting for the efforts that have been needed for decades to create a safer society. It is about investments in schools and a housing policy that really breaks segregation. It is about more jobs and the creation of social security systems. It is clear that the unilateral focus on punishment does not reduce violence to the extent that the Swedish people expect. It is therefore fascinating that the government boasts about the amount of punitive measures that have been taken but does not talk about the prevention of crime. All the hundreds of people living in affected areas have the same right as everyone else to feel safe. There needs to be an accident commission on violence, and there needs to be end-fire projects in more areas. Make sure that the economic differences between the poor and the rich disappear! Make sure that the collaboration between police, municipalities and social authorities is in every city and municipality! Update the police citizens' vows! Investigate a new witness protection program so that more people dare to testify! Make sure that customs are given greater powers to stop contraband! Stop the black money and the money laundering that provides guns to criminal gangs! Strengthen weapons laws, and ensure that we have a solid control of weapons in Sweden! If we want to stop criminal gangs, shootings, car fires and insecurity and everything else that this committee has debated for so many years, we need to tackle economic inequality. If the government refuses to realise that the economic divides give birth to desperation, it is not a government for the people but for the elite.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-41	Madam President, I would like In recent times we have seen the gross and gang-related violence taking new dangerous paths in our society In Malmö and Linköping we have recently seen examples of warlike scenes where criminal settlements lead to explosions that expose the public to great risks. We can be grateful that no innocents were seriously injured or killed in these ruthless acts. It is also serious when you read about people who have fled from violence in Afghanistan but now live in great concern after having happened to live near one of the houses that has been destroyed. And last night we saw another act where a person was shot in Västerås. The fight against organised crime must be intensified. Our society must be able to guarantee the safety of our citizens. And here we see that the government is not the active party, but that many of the actions that are now and are underway are based on announcements from the Riksdag. What has happened to the National Police Commissioner Anders Thornberg's proposal list from November 2018? It presented a number of proposals to break the negative trend in public order and security. How many of these proposals will be implemented? I also lack feedback and activity from the government here. In my view, we should take the list of proposals seriously, because these initiatives and proposals come from those who work closely with the problems. Activity, not passivity, is needed to implement these proposals as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like We have a common understanding in the Riksdag that there will be major investments in the police so that they can be more. But they also need other tools to fight serious crime. In order to prosecute criminals, witnesses are needed, but there is now a fear of witnessing. As early as the year 2000, the National Police Board of Sweden wrote that a system of anonymous witnesses should be considered, given the development of serious organised crime at the time. After nearly 20 years, few claim that progress has gone in the right direction. The threats to witnesses are not an abstract phenomenon but a reality in today's Sweden. Testimonies are an important cornerstone of the judicial system, but they are challenged by criminal elements in society. The Parliament has made an announcement that the government should investigate a system of Crown Witnesses and also anonymous witnesses. However, although Morgan Johansson expressed his support in April this year for investigating both Crown Witnesses and anonymous witnesses, unfortunately, anonymous witnesses are not mentioned in the investigation directives recently presented by Mikael Damberg. It is time for the government to listen to the Riksdag and investigate the conditions for considering anonymous witnesses in some cases. Responsible and restrictively used, anonymous witnesses can be a tool to break gang crime.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-50	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important debate. We must note that we have increasing security gaps in our country, which I would say are perhaps the greatest injustices. People have their chances of life destroyed, lives extinguished and the consequences in the long term are incalculable. We Liberals note that we are approaching a situation where it appears that in some areas we have lost the opportunity to deal with structures by ordinary means and to fight back at the activities that destroy the lives of so many people. A recent research report shows that there are some 15 000 individuals involved in this activity. They are motorcycle gangs, criminal suburban gangs or gangs in vulnerable areas, football companies, various ideological groupings, ranging from Islamists to Nazis, white power and autonomous. The situation is pretty serious. It is people who have definitely lost the idea of participating in the common society – people who have completely lost the idea of our social contract. For us Liberals, it is important that we use some of the harsher penalties, but that is not enough. We know we have to do a lot, a lot more. Sometimes this gets away. Some police officer said not so long ago that it is very good with 10,000 new police employees but that the municipalities have to sign on with at least 10,000 more adults combined – recreational educators, social workers, field assistants – who are out and meet the young people who otherwise grow up in what might resemble a mental ice age. Here I think we can do a lot more and make demands on our municipalities. We Liberals will at least make demands in our budget talks on the government to sign up and earmark money to make these social efforts. We must be prepared to look at what we can do with those responsible for the social authorities. There is a need for earlier and clearer action. We must prevent small accidents from becoming major disasters and prevent recruitment to these gangs. It must be stopped in time. We have here this spring debated the question of the action for proof in order to get more young people to be tried. Responsibility should be demanded from parents, and more social efforts are needed. In my next speech, I will come back to a further tightening up of police methods that must be able to be used, otherwise we will end up in a situation where we have lost our grip.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-58	Madam President, I would like Young boys and men who have lost faith in the future shoot each other to death in today's Sweden. Recent explosions follow a period of unusual attacks with hand grenades. Young men are recruited into crime and are more likely than other people to be targets of the most serious violence. Society must accumulate on a broad front. The police are growing at a record pace. We have tightened the relevant penalties to get to the criminal gangs and networks and mobilized all relevant authorities. We've removed weapons from the street. We've raised the penalties for those who carry guns in the city and make sure they can be locked up right away. Sweden's detention centres are now full. Although there is broad agreement that we should take a strong stand against gunfire, there are voices that want us to have access to more weapons with less control. In the acute situation in which we find ourselves, it is quite unreal that the Moderates want to loosen up Swedish arms legislation. In the United States, high-profile shootings usually lead to a debate about more control of weapons, in Sweden it is the opposite. For the Green Party, it is important that criminal policy is based on science and proven experience. We have to work hard to stop shootings and gang crime among young people. If we say so, we cannot at the same time do what the experts say has no or at worst the opposite effect.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-63	Madam President, I would like It is fundamentally good that we have such a common picture of the problems in society, as this debate shows, but also a very broad consensus on many of the additional measures that need to be taken to curb the serious crimes and repress gang crime. I can assure the House that both I and the police are determined to continue to gather together and do what is necessary to reverse this trend. When the criminal gangs get stuck for decades, it doesn't just take a few months to reverse the trend. The only way to reduce shootings, blasts and gang crime is lasting long-term and sustained work and much of collaboration. Even those politicians who today have a high voice have reason to reflect on their own responsibility for not doing more in the past to curb the causes of the shootings and blasts we see. Finally, resources are being added to the police. Finally, the penalties are being tightened up, for example, so that a person is arrested directly if he is found with a gun. Now the police are finally given the opportunity to listen and monitor when there are such needs. I believe that the police are working strategically to gather forces to stop killings and improve the situation in the affected areas. The police authorities are now seeing a cautious positive development in many vulnerable areas. The latest situation shows that development is moving in the right direction in several places, but not all. The police see that threats and violence against the police are decreasing in these areas and that an increased police presence has had a positive effect. Now the head of the National Police is urging us politicians to work towards recruitment to the gangs. We have to catch up with the young guys who are at risk of choosing a criminal environment, and we also have to work against the causes of crime. If you only deal with fighting crime, increasing police presence and prosecution and putting more people in custody but not creating safe places for young people and breaking new recruits, Sweden will not succeed in this task. On the other hand, if you are only involved in crime prevention, strengthening school and social services and developing neighbourly cooperation and security migrations but not strengthening law enforcement, you will also fail, because it is connected, crime prevention and law enforcement. You can't just do one thing; you have to do both. In addition to more police officers and stricter penalties, a policy is also needed to enable more people to graduate with full grades and get a job and their own income. In many residential areas, the strong society needs to be restored, and then we need to ensure that the whole of society comes together. Barely a month ago, the Minister of Justice and I met all the Chairmans of the Municipal Board in particularly vulnerable areas or risk areas to discuss what else we can do together. It was a good meeting, and we fully agreed to continue working for the police and society to go hand in hand. The police need our, society's, joint efforts to succeed.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-73	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a very serious security crisis. We also see that the Swedish people are concerned about this development and that many experience growing insecurity in everyday life. Of course, a number of things are needed to reverse this trend. Here and now, a pool of forces is needed for the police to be able to solve their tasks. There is a need for more police officers who have better tools to prosecute crime and increase efficiency. Important punitive measures are needed to mark the seriousness of the crimes and to keep gang criminals off the streets. Mikael Damberg's first budget as Minister of Interior contained a savings of SEK 230 million on the police compared to the M-KD budget. We have seen a great deal in this House, but the question is whether this was not the worst time-saving ever in Swedish politics: less resources for the police while the number of shootings skyrockets and the explosions are increasing. Is it not high time for the Minister of the Interior to stop defending the decision to put a sparring on the police in the midst of a burning crisis of security?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-77	Madam President, I would like I can see that the budget presented represents 1 600 million more for the police now than last year. This is an unprecedented increase in ambition in modern Swedish history. The police department has begun to grow in numbers, with a view to 10,000 more police employees. Employees should also be given better conditions so that they become an attractive profession. I believe that Johan Forssell and I fully agree that the police must be pured up and allowed to devote time and effort to what the police should do, namely the crime prevention and the law enforcement work. That is why the issue of clean cultivation and, not least, transport is important. If we do not solve more transport via, for example, the prison service, police officers will be forced to sit miles after mile in transport instead of fighting crime. It's crazy politics. I note that we will be making a major effort on the police in the coming years.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-80	Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Interior gives the impression that this saving has no consequences at all. Why, then, does the chief police officer say that the savings will have consequences for the police and that the money was intended to be used to develop the police's activities in the coming years? Does the Minister of the Interior know how many police officers you get for $230 million, how many police cars you can buy, how many new police dogs you get for this money? And so the minister stands here pretending that 230 million has no consequences at all.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-82	Madam President, I would like We will continue to expand the police. We will have more employees, more police cars and more police stations open because we are expanding the police force this year and the coming years. This work will continue. However, the police will not succeed in their mission if they do not get relief, for example in the form of fewer transports. Police officers should not have to sit and run criminal crosses across Sweden. This work must also continue. One must take a holistic approach to the whole legal chain in order for the big investments we make on the police to also have an impact in everyday life.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-85	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask our Minister for Home Affairs some specific questions. First of all, is segregation a root cause of crime? If so, does more and more generous migration lead to more or less segregation – about exclusion and combating the root causes of crime? Secondly, what is seen by the Police Authority as a saving in transport leads us to the effectiveness of the Police Authority. Can the government consider allowing the Swedish Armed Forces to assist the police with certain tasks, such as guarding missions or similar?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-88	Madam President, I would like We know from international research that countries that have major economic gaps often have problems with insecurity, conflicts in society and groups that feel completely marginalised and do not get the chance to make progress in society through good education and good jobs. In such societies, crime is also growing, which affects the majority society in the form of increased insecurity. It is therefore important to safeguard a general welfare policy, a good preschool and school for children and young people and a reduction in youth unemployment, as we now see in the Swedish labour market. It is important to prevent and reduce the risk of young people, especially men, being drawn into criminal settings. This is what the chief of police means when he says that more severe punishment is not enough. It must also be a determined effort to reduce recruitment, and this work must be done in parallel with the major expansion of the police force.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-91	Madam President, I would like Migration has an absolutely special position in the history of the 21st century when it comes to why we have segregation in Sweden. If you do not understand this link, or if you are prepared to introduce a more generous migration policy, then you will not fight but promote the root causes of crime. My second question was whether the Minister for Home Affairs would be willing to allow the military to assist the police with certain tasks.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-93	Madam President, I would like For those who listen, it may be worth knowing that in 2015 163 000 asylum seekers came to Sweden. In 2017, there were about 25 000, and the figures continue to fall. There has thus been a dramatic change in recent years, which partly has to do with the Riksdag's decision to tighten the regulatory framework in order to achieve a more sustainable migration policy over time. The Swedish Armed Forces assist the police in connection with acts of terrorism, for example, which is a good order.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-95	Madam President, I would like Despite increased perceived insecurity and a large number of shootings, the government has delivered only a policy of punishment. We have a prime minister bragging about how long you should now be in prison after you have received a verdict. I think the Prime Minister should brag about the number of crime prevention measures the government delivers. But the government's priority is to lower taxes for the rich rather than to build security in the suburbs. I wonder: when did it become more important for the Social Democrats to protect the rich rather than the poor? Where are the major investments in vulnerable areas and in the collaboration between police, associations, municipalities and housing associations that have proven effective and successful in making vulnerable areas safe again?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-97	Madam President, I would like The most important thing we have done in these years is to halve youth unemployment and reverse school outcomes in Sweden after many years of declining results. We are now continuing with the School Commission's work, which has broad research support and a broad parliamentary set-up that will direct billions of funding to the school in the coming years to both increase knowledge results and reduce segregation, which means by far the most in these residential areas. That is general policy. The Left Party makes it too easy for itself and says that it does not matter that we make police efforts and tighten penalties. Of course it matters. The police themselves say that we had not seen a cautious positive development in the affected areas unless the police presence was greater there and unless the police picked up all these weapons as a result of stricter legislation. Police officers as well as stricter legislation and preventive long-term social work are needed to succeed.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-100	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Government and I fully agree that crime prevention measures are very important, because we need to reduce class gaps in society. But it is the Government which, as it were, sits on the state budget and has the plane half with it, and then you choose not to pump money into crime prevention with the Center Party and the Liberals. Instead, it removes the penalty for young people and does tax cuts and other things that are not crime prevention. This concerns me.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-101	Madam President, I would like It is clear to everyone that we have been forced to compromise in order to bring about a functioning government and cooperation in the middle of Swedish politics. It took tax cuts for some bourgeois parties to join the agreement. It's not a secret. On the other hand, we have introduced a new crime prevention programme. This is the first time in many years that we have such a national crime prevention programme. I have heard the Liberals stand in the speaker's chair and say that social efforts are also needed in parallel with the effort we are now talking about, so I think there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament for us to work with both. I hope so.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-103	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I raised two important points: anonymous witnesses and the National Police Commissioner's list. I'll start with anonymous witnesses. The announcement from the Riksdag mentions that the Government will investigate anonymous witnesses. But despite the fact that Morgan Johansson, the Minister's colleague to Mikael Damberg, was positive in April, the government now seems to have changed foot and does not include it in the current investigation to be started.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-106	Madam President, I would like The investigation directives are not yet presented, so we can come back to discussing them when they are presented. When it comes to the National Police Commissioner's list, it is a work that we work with structuredly throughout the Government Office. We check out all the proposals of the chief police officer, go through them and see what is already going on, what further investigations we may need to set up and what we can deliver on. It's a strategic work, and we work in a structured way. Many points have already been rejected by means of actions that we have talked about here today, but there is more to come. Registration of prepaid cards will come later this year. Proposals for new youth sanctions have recently been referred, and we will come back to that. Suggestions for secret data reading will come as soon as we're finished. Customs' powers, as mentioned earlier, will be addressed in the context of the investigation that is being presented shortly, dealing with penalties and explosives. There's a lot going on, and there's more coming.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-110	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer on the Chief of State's list. There's a consensus that we're going to move on. Then I have to say that at one of his visits Mikael Damberg announced what was to come in the investigation and specifically mentioned that Crown Witnesses and Witness Protection would be involved. Can I interpret Mikael Damberg's answer here so that the government opens up to include anonymous witnesses in the investigation directive that will come forward?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-112	Madam President, I would like You're supposed to interpret it exactly as I said at the time. We presented a witness protection package including Crown Witnesses, and we will present the directives later. That is exactly what applies.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-113	Madam President, I would like These issues are, to say the least, complex. I think the Minister for the Interior is on to a lot of good things, but I want to stick to the question that we have paired with a steel glove, metaphorically, against serious crime must have a silk mitten, but still be prepared to pinch a little hard early and clearly. I wonder how the Minister for the Interior views the question of us appointing some kind of Commission because we see, the police see and everyone who works with vulnerable children sees that today's Social Services Act is written in a completely different time. It answers completely different questions from those we face today in the vulnerable areas where young people are at risk of being cannon fodder. Is the Minister of the Interior prepared to support it in order to get measures for earlier and clearer efforts for young people so that we stop the influx into the criminal gangs?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-115	Madam President, I would like It was an exciting metaphor, a steel glove and a silk mitt. I think the point of working with both the hard and the soft is quite right. I have met Lena Hallengren to discuss how we should work together, and the head of the National Police has invited social services locally to meet local police to discuss where there is a gap, where cooperation does not take place well enough and what rules need to be changed. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has already received a number of assignments to investigate how the law – LVU – should be developed and what problems with coercion exist. If that is enough or if there is a need for an entire Commission, then we can discuss it, but I think that the National Board of Health and Welfare, which has been given these tasks, is something important on the trail. It is possible that this will suffice and lead forward and that the clarification of the regulatory framework that has been implemented will allow municipalities to make full use of the legislation.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-118	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for his answer. I think we need to get back to you because you can't just drive. I can be repressive-- I promise, there's no problem-- but we need to see the whole picture. I have another question that is important. We see many social efforts that need to be made, but in many smaller municipalities resources are lacking. It is known that a child must be removed because the child's environment is catastrophic and the person has behaviors that are terrible, but there are no resources. Can the Minister of the Interior imagine that we support state funding to pay for municipalities that need to remove children from the street?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-121	Madam President, I would like I do not think I should anticipate a budget negotiation. On the other hand, I think it is wise to consider making further social efforts. I can mention that I was very unhappy that the money that went to Delmos to fight segregation disappeared. Many of the concrete measures lie in the span between security, social interventions and interaction between school, social services and police. This money disappeared, but we still saved it in the transitional budget. I am not saying that it must look exactly like Delmos's, but I think it is important to have the courage to discuss specific money in order to help the municipalities in this mission.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-124	Madam President, I would like As many have said, the problems we are experiencing at the moment are extremely serious. The problems have also grown in recent years. I ask the question: what has this government, which has not been sitting for just a few months, but actually for five years, done to break the trend? There has been no lack of warning signs, nor has there been a lack of political proposals. Nevertheless, the government's handling of gang crime follows exactly the same pattern as in the fight against terrorism, or, for that matter, in ensuring that the defence is given sufficient resources to carry out its tasks. Investigations are not added, or are added far too late, as in the case of the youth discount, for example. The Parliament gave an announcement about it already several years ago. We are still waiting for the legislation. The legislation also contains major gaps, for example as regards the protection of blue light personnel. What is often presented is often not sharp enough, for example in terms of the punishment for serious weapons offences. How many times have we heard the government talk about it? But it obviously has not solved the problems when it is still being pushed almost daily. And important punitive measures are missing, such as a gang rule to double the penalties for gang-related crime. Resources that could go to the judiciary go to other things, such as the savings on the police resulting from Mikael Damberg's first budget as Minister of the Interior. This government is not in charge of the core state's tasks. The government's priorities and political momentum leave a great deal to be desired. It is not about anything here; it is actually about the security and security of individuals. Sure, it costs money. You may not be able to afford to spend billions on more vacations. On the contrary, however, the core state now continues to be subject to exceptions and is treated a little guilty. This concerns me because I fear that if we do not take action right now – right now – we will be holding new debates on this subject in a few years' time in this very House and saying: in 2019 the problems were not at all as great as they are today. This must not happen.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-131	Madam President, I would like The number of shootings is record size, and weapons are circulating around Sweden. Despite this, the Moderates last week chose to loosen Sweden's solid arms legislation and remove a large number of features that make us know who has weapons and how many weapons they have. One moment to talk about shootings in the suburbs and the next to have a party leader who can't lock his own gun cabinet won't do. Does Johan Forssell think that only illegal weapons have the ability to kill other people?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-133	Madam President, I would like This clearly shows the differences in legal policy. The Left Party says no to criminal punishment and does not want to see any more police officers. But law-abiding hunters and sportsmen will certainly be squeezed. That's where politics is supposed to be tough. That is a very strange priority. It will not solve the problems of gang crime, and it will not make Sweden any better. We want modern weapons legislation. It should be tight on the misbehaver. But we're gonna get rid of unnecessary hassle. Let us now focus on the important things in this context: the rule of law and justice policy.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-135	Madam President, I would like On the one hand, to have an extremely high tone against organised crime and killings and call for this debate today and, on the other hand, last week, to have an almost higher tone in order that Sweden should not in principle have restrictive arms laws is not good enough. It rhymes extremely badly, Johan Forssell. You seem to think that illegal weapons are the only thing that can kill people, while legal weapons can't cause any errors at all. It is not taking responsibility for what the situation looks like in Sweden today.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-137	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has a policy of not imposing penalties on criminals, on those who terrorise law-abiding people. We're not gonna have any more cops. We're gonna leave all this behind. But precisely when it comes to law-abiding hunters and sportsmen, who manage their commitments and who are engaged in the great sport that this really is, politics should be tough. But that's not where the problem is. The problem is the weapons of criminals and the inability of the Left Party to both see the problems and do something about them. This is part of the growing insecurity problems that Sweden is experiencing today.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-138	Madam President, I would like I understand that it must be difficult for Johan For s sell to stand here and explain how his party has been able to land in these strange positions on weapons. Sweden has great and good control over legal weapons. Today, legal weapons are very rarely used in criminal activities. Can Johan Forssell explain to me how the Moderates can believe that less control over legal weapons can reduce the number of shootings?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-141	Madam President, I would like Unlike Annika Hirvonen Falk, I do not see as moderate law-abiding hunters and sportsmen as potential terrorists or criminals. But I understand that it is this initial value that governs both the Green Party and the Left Party. It may also explain why the Social Democrats and Minister for the Interior Mikael Damberg do not address these issues and recently stated that they want to over-implement the EU arms directive. It's obvious, because you're the one who's running this place. But I, as a moderate, have another entry into this.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-142	Madam President, I would like I'm really shocked. There is plenty of research and examples in the world of the difference between countries and states in, for example, the United States with enhanced arms control and those where it is more open-minded. Most agree that good control of legal weapons reduces violence and the number of shootings in society. Then there are those such as Donald Trump and Sweden's Moderates who do not see this.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-143	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that Sweden's several hundred thousand hunters and sportsmen have nothing to get from either the Green Party or the Left Party, or for that matter from this government. What we did last week was remove unnecessary hassle, and we also did a lot of punitive work. But the problem in this debate is about the introduction of illegal weapons into Sweden, that we do not have enough police officers and that gang criminals are running around the streets. There, the Green Party has no policy at all. Perhaps that is why this government does so little.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-145	Madam President, I would like So we are having a particularly urgent debate on gang crime. In this situation, the Left Party and the Green Party, against the backdrop of the shootings that we have seen on the streets and against the backdrop of the explosions that we have had in society, choose to focus on hunting and shooting as a problem. To be honest, I was falling off the chair when I heard these lines just now. This has nothing to do with crime. Law-abiding people who engage in hunting and shooting are a necessary part of our society and how it works in the forest in Sweden with hunting for injured game and the like. It is important that such things work and that there is security among these shooters, so that they can carry out their mission. It has nothing to do with crime. But that is where the focus of the red-greens lies when the suburbs burn, when gang crime spreads, and when organized crime blows up multi-family houses. Then it's Hunting and shooting Sweden they're going after. As I said before, we will never get to these problems as long as we have a red-green government. The replica shifts here between the Moderates, the Left and the Green Party really make clear exactly what I said in my introduction, namely that it is doomed to see a light in these exclusion areas when one opens up for migration that leads to segregation. They focus on hunting and shooting instead of focusing on gang criminals. I am not particularly surprised, but yet I manage to do so in this debate. It's surprising enough. I think we should call for a proposal that Parliament has actually made known to the government in relation to anonymous witnesses. Who wants to testify against serious organized crime? Put your hands up! Even Mikael Damberg doesn't lift his hand. That question is very much called for, and I would like an answer to this question from the Minister for the Interior. Will this be included in the directive?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-148	Madam President, I would like Sweden stands out when shootings are carried out in a gang environment. In many other European countries it does not look like this. In Germany, for example, a tenth of a capita is so common that gang shootings occur. Madam President, I would like If it were as simple as Adam Marttinen explains, that is to say that migration is the cause, it would look a different way, even in Germany.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-150	Madam President, I would like It is often said in the debate on the left: you should be tough on crime, but also against the causes of crime. The problem with the red-green government is that you are not tough on either crime or its root causes. The segregation is growing. Is it a coincidence, Annika Hirvonen Falk, that all the areas that the police consider to be vulnerable and particularly vulnerable consist of areas where many people who migrated live and where cultural exclusion is large? Is this a coincidence?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-152	Madam President, I would like In many of these particularly vulnerable areas, society has failed in children's schooling. We need to take action to counteract segregation. But Adam Marttinen should not fool us into thinking that if we allow little children to come home and sit in the arms of their parents this will cause shootings in Sweden.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-153	Madam President, I would like The understanding of the Green Party is equal to zero when it comes to the root cause of what creates segregation in Sweden. I would say that 90% of the reason we have had a growing segregation in Sweden over the last 20 years is only due to strong migration here. Sweden has not been able to deal with this. If, in the light of what it looks like today in Sweden, you want to increase migration, you don't understand anything. But it seems to be the red-green melody. With this policy, we will continue to have growing exclusion areas, and hence growing crime.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-155	Madam President, I would like As we have noted here today, the shootings in Sweden have skyrocketed since 2011. Criminal gangs are threatening police and prosecutors, and in some areas insecurity is spreading. If you engage in serious organised crime and gang crime, it must punish itself. There is a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament for tougher action against organised crime and gang crime. That's very good. However, when you are faced with acute and serious problems, it is easy to think in the short term to solve the problem here and now. On this issue, we need to have two thoughts in our heads at the same time. We need to get to the serious criminals of today, while preventing children and young people from falling into crime and serious organised crime. It is a work that involves the whole of society from social services, school and community life to police and penitentiary. We need to give priority to organised crime and gang crime, but we also need to ensure that the police are given the right resources throughout the country in order to also be able to give priority to petty and everyday crimes. This is important for two reasons. Madam President, I would like We need to take harder action against gang crime and crime. But we must also look at the problem in the longer term, because no one is born a criminal.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-160	Madam President, I would like We have spoken a little about serious crime in the debate. Everyone agrees that this is a huge problem and that it poses a major threat to society, especially, of course, in the areas where it is fired and where bombs are blown up. In the areas where it is blown up and shot, there are also witnesses who risk their lives if they testify against serious organized crime. The Center Party has opposed the suggestion that these people should be able to testify anonymously. I still wonder why you in the Center Party are opposed to people who testify against serious organised crime doing so anonymously.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-163	Madam President, I would like Sweden has major problems in terms of insecurity and crime. For example, the Center Party is in favour of introducing a system of Crown Witnesses. But when something is acute and the situation and tone are very high, you easily forget some basic legal principles. The Center Party believes that high legal certainty is very important, even when we are trying to get to gang crime. When other parties seem to turn a blind eye to the rule of law, the Center Party will continue to defend it.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-165	Madam President, I would like Anonymous witnesses are not a new invention in Sweden. This is something that exists in several European countries. If one is to introduce it in any European country, perhaps one should do so in the country where the serious organised crime stands out, that is, in Sweden. This is where witnesses live under life-long death threats. They get to live in witness protection programs and change town and family. They can never have contact with former family and friends because of witnessing against serious organized crime. Is it not reasonable for this to be done anonymously so as to be able to stand up for the judicial system and maintain privacy in the future as well?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-168	Madam President, I would like We're in complete agreement. I believe that all parties in the Swedish Parliament agree that it should be easier and more secure to testify in our country. But for the Center Party, the rule of law is a fundamental principle of a functioning democracy, and it can and should never be compromised. Neither will the Center Party.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-169	Madam President, I would like If you are not a very criminal when you enter the prison, you will be when you get out. I don't know how many times I've heard this from people who have left their criminal lives. We know that most crime prevention is a good school, but the government is now making a deal with the Liberals about order ratings. We know that the very best thing for a person is a secure employment, but the government looks at tearing up the law on employment security. We know that a dwelling is a foundation in a person's life, but the government wants to crawl away with the Center Party and introduce market rents. These are proposals that create insecurity. It is an insecurity that vibrates throughout society and creates cracks in the social contract. The police state in a letter to the government in 2018 that Sweden is basically a safe country to live in and that the growth that takes place in criminal environments can be halted if several social actors act together. The police put it into practice that the Prison Service should receive more crime prevention assignments, the Swedish Tax Agency should work with identity creations, social services should identify children at risk and county councils should strengthen child and youth psychiatry. I'm pretty sure Anders Thornberg is not a left-wing party, but he definitely sounds like one. Of the proposals made by the police, it is only the one that the government has implemented regarding the enforcement of penalties. Madam President, I would like I am one of the few women in the debate, and I would like to highlight the problem that it is men who account for most of the violence in society. It is men who beat other men in public places, but it is also men who beat women. Violence against women is part of the pyramid of violence that we are currently seeing in society. What measures are there to get men to stop using violence? What efforts are being made to get men to stop fighting? I would like a man in this House to respond to that.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-175	Madam President, I would like Christian-democratic justice policy is based on the realization of human imperfection. Crime has always been and will always occur. A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law be prosecuted and punished. In order to remedy the current situation of gang crime, I would like to highlight a few further proposals beyond what I mentioned in my first speech. Much of the serious crime is currently linked to certain geographical areas. The Christian Democrats want to see that, in addition to the punishment for the crime committed, a further sanction could be imposed with a stay ban on certain areas. The aim is to make it more difficult for crime to take hold in these areas. The Christian Democrats also want those who commit a crime linked to gang crime to be able to receive a higher penalty. In order to tackle the more serious crime, the Christian Democrats want today's system of different penalties to be reformed. We also want the principle of automatic two-thirds release to be changed. An important resource for stopping the flow of weapons and explosives into our country is the Customs Agency. Important steps must therefore be taken to increase the financial resources and the powers of the Customs Agency. New technologies should also be introduced, such as smart surveillance cameras that allow known smugglers to be stopped at the border. As mentioned earlier, the various functions of society need to work together to break the recruitment process and create alternatives for young people. Madam President, I would like We need to find ways to break the trend of shootings and explosions in our society. They put ordinary citizens at risk. There's a need for force against gang crime. There are suggestions from both the opposition and the chief police officer. Now we need action from the government as well. Let us see concrete proposals for action now! The government needs to listen to the Riksdag. The conditions for anonymous witnesses need to be included in the investigation directives on witness protection.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-182	Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's most legally secure legal systems. Legal certainty is a cornerstone of democracy. A key aspect of criminality and the prosecution of criminals is the right of the accused to deal with what is being charged to him. Imagine that an anonymous person will decide whether you will be in prison for years! It's not legal.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-183	Madam President, I would like We can see that Sweden stands out in Europe regarding gang crime. I think we should take the opportunity to use the system that exists in Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands, when we see that witnesses are being threatened and affected. There is a wide range of examples. There have been explosions outside houses in Staffanstorp when a family has testified against gang crime. In January 2017, a man was murdered after testifying at a murder trial. I'll see to witness protection. It's important.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-184	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that witness protection is important. But have the Christian Democrats then given up on being able to find stronger protection for witnesses in a way that does not at the same time undermine the rule of law and, by extension, risks that we do not get as many who want to witness openly as we do today? I am afraid that this may have the opposite effect: fewer are judged.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-185	Madam President, I would like We're already there today. There are many who choose not to get in touch, not to stand up for questioning or not to testify. The reason is threats from a gang criminality that has a grip on large residential areas. Of course, we should uphold the rule of law, but in extreme cases anonymous witnesses – in the event of responsible and restrictive use – can be a tool to break the power of gang crime without reducing legal protection.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-187	Madam President, I would like For the Liberals, it is essential that we cooperate with the government. When we have that cooperation, it is all the more crucial that it contains important elements for strengthening the judiciary in general and for tackling this type of crime in particular. It is a crime that destroys lives and life chances and is a threat to everything we call the social contract and what makes Sweden stick together. Increasing security gaps make a great many people feel that it is a different legal system that applies to them. This is a situation that is so serious that we cannot stand on the brake– we have to press the gas here, I think. I think we have to dare talk about new funds that we haven't talked about yet. There was an investigation earlier that looked at police methods. For us liberals, it is sad to even have to think about how infiltrators should be able to work more efficiently in Sweden in order to access these groupings. We can't just take them with longer sentences. They're totally insensitive to it. They're beyond that. They've lost it. These are people who are not particularly concerned about their own lives and those of others. We need to look at the possibilities of strengthening the police's ability to infiltrate with their own staff or with other people. Similarly, we need to look at the distinction between evidence and criminal provocation if we really want to tackle this type of crime. We need to turn and reverse important and tightened coercive measures in order to move forward. Otherwise, we will stand here and have a debate again in one, two and three years.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-191	Madam President, I would like Economic equality and small class divisions reduce crime. I am surprised that Mr Pehrson, who is negotiating with the government, has made it abolish the defence tax. This means that you and I, Johan Pehrson, as well-paid politicians, will pay 17 000 less tax per year and that the Treasury will receive 6 billion less. It is money that could be spent on the field assistants that you request. Why does Johan Pehrson think this is a good deal to shoe yourself on?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-193	Madam President, I would like Let's talk about gang crime. But a small economic lesson may not hurt. I have 100 research reports showing that reduced marginal taxes are self-financing. Lower marginal taxes lead to more hours worked in this country. As a result, people will contribute even more to our common welfare. But I know that the Left Party cannot take on this kind of knowledge that people work more if they can keep, for example, half.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-196	Madam President, I would like I have a hard time believing that Johan Pehrson will work more because he pays less in taxes. I find it very difficult to believe that the prevention of crime will be better in vulnerable suburbs because the state will raise 6 billion less in the public purse. I find it very hard to believe that there will be more of field assistants, police officers and crime prevention efforts because Johan Pehrson and I will pay less in taxes. It's not about knowledge. It is about political priorities for what we should have for society.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-198	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is totally factually resistant. I was looking for that concept in my last line. The fact is that we have all kinds of calculations that show that this is self-financing. It leads to more hours worked. But the Left Party can't take that to heart. Can the Left, then, take on board the fact that taxes on labour under social democratic governments have been reduced by nearly 100 billion and under the alliance government by 100 billion and that tax revenues – hear and behold – have increased? I am extremely interested in high tax revenues, but the link to high tax rates is weak.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-202	Madam President, I would like In the fight against serious crime, we must have two time perspectives at the same time: both here and now as well as the next generation of young people. Here and now, the leaders and the weapons must be removed from schoolyards and squares. Long-term society must offer young guys dreams other than a short life in the drug trade. During my last term of office, when I travelled around Sweden as the Legal Policy Spokesperson of the Green Party, I met police officers and others who work with these very young people in vulnerable areas. Everyone pointed out that the school and social services needed to improve. A social service must be available earlier in the lives of young people, and a school must have high expectations of every single child regardless of gender, regardless of the parents' background and regardless of residential area or diagnosis. The school must give every kid a belief in himself and his future. Unfortunately, we are far from it today. Where it is needed at best, we have the least number of qualified teachers and principals with short experience. Seven out of ten guys in Bergsjön can't make grade nine. The fact that this is the case in Sweden's particularly vulnerable areas is devastating. The failure of society with school is one of the key challenges we face if we are to break the development of serious crime. Therefore, the government must continue to work towards a strengthened and equal school, especially in the vulnerable areas.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-207	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Green Party is not on the road to more policemen and more severe penalties. In any case, it is not considered to be a priority. Now the Green Party is a government party, and a government is to make decisions together. I am thinking, for example, of penalties imposed on young adults aged 18 to 21 today, to tighten up the rules with a view to expelling more people who commit serious crimes in Sweden or to abolishing today's rebate. The government often says that it is in favour of it, but then nothing happens. Is it because the Green Party stops such political proposals?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-210	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is part of the government that is expanding the police at a rate we have never seen before. Madam President, I would like Regarding the penalty rebate for young people, let me read aloud from the Security Service's referrals on the investigation that has been carried out: the link between violent extremism and organised crime has been discussed in recent years. On the contrary, imprisonment has proved to be the prerequisite for radicalisation to take place.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-212	Madam President, I would like It sounds to the Green Party like you shouldn't sentence anyone to jail. I think everyone who listens to this debate realises that Mikael Damberg's harsh words about breaking the gangs are on a completely different planet from what the Green Party representative is talking about in this debate. In fact, MPs often adopt positions which are quite contrary to what the majority in this House and the other government party have. This is a problem in Swedish law policy. We need a government that is capable of action and is able to take the right measures. Unfortunately, the Green Party is a major problem.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-214	Madam President, I would like If the Swedish Security Service says that we are in danger of increased radicalisation, violent extremism and thus, by extension, more acts of violence in society because of the proposal for a penalty rebate for young people who have now been referred, the Green Party listens. We listen to those who know what they're talking about.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-215	Madam President, I would like On the occasion of the previous replica: If we have Islamists in Swedish prisons radicalizing other inmates, the solution is not to stop taking in n other people in prison when they commit crimes. Then the solution is to separate Islamists in Swedish prisons or expel them so that they can serve sentences in other countries if they are foreign citizens. It is absolutely amazing that we have a government party that really sees the biggest problem in that there may be risks if you sentence people to prison. Then you solve the problems that arise as a result of more people in prison. You don't make sure more people get out or get out of jail. Oh, my God! Jesus!
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-217	Madam President, I would like Do the Swedish Democrats mean that if the Swedish Security Service says that the proposal can lead to more radicalisation, then it will be implemented no matter what?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-218	Madam President, I would like Of course, consideration should be given to what is said by the consultation bodies. However, it must also be possible to have a political answer to how to solve the problems that the consultation bodies are concerned about. It is not very difficult to separate Swedish Islamists in separate prisons from the other inmates. Then radicalisation does not occur at all. Can't you from the Green Party think a step forward for once?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-220	Madam President, I would like At the heart of the criticisms of the consultative bodies, which are also broader than those of the Security Service, is that young people do not have the same developed impact thinking as older people. If we put young people, who commit their first crime, in prison, it risks strengthening a criminal identity, contacts with criminal gangs and increasing recruitment to organised crime. That's why it's a bad solution.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-221	Madam President, I would like We are talking today about really big problems, gang crime, dead skeweds and explosions of apartment houses. MP's only solution is to attack law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. It's quite absurd, to say the least. I have a specific question. How will gang crime be compounded by the fact that law - abiding hunters do not need special permits for silencers?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-223	Madam President, I would like What I highlighted in my speech and the shift in line with Moderates Johan Forssell is my concern that when we see increased shootings in society, a number of parties in this House want to reduce the control of weapons and allow more weapons. I believe that we need to look soberly at these issues and do what Europe requires of us in order to have good control and reduce the risk of terrorist attacks in Sweden.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-224	Madam President, I would like This is something strange. It is the opposition that wants to take the most force against the illegal weapons. We're the ones pushing it. But we can tell the difference between apples and pears. There's a difference between legal and illegal weapons. No, the government does not want to do what the EU is forcing us to do. The government wants to go even further than, for example, the EU's weapons directive requires. You hunt hunters instead of gang crime in Malmö.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-226	Madam President, I would like Jonny Cato Hansson is right that there is a difference between illegal weapons and legal weapons. But that difference only lasts as long as we keep track of the legal weapons. It is therefore crucial that we do not loosen the control of legal weapons. I would be happy to welcome if we could sit down and talk about how we can implement the EU arms directive in a good way. But I do not think that the opposition is interested in anything but symbolic politics and discussion, at least it has been so far.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-228	Madam President, I would like We can see that it is a matter of having the right focus instead of focusing on law-abiding citizens. One study has shown that of the 1.7 million weapons we have in 600,000 hunters, 1.2 weapons per year have been related to crime. I think it is more important that we create resources to stop the illegal influx. Can Annika Hirvonen Falk, who represents one of the government parties, guarantee that the Swedish Customs Agency will have increased resources and powers? Then we'll put more of a stop to the illegal weapons.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-230	Madam President, I would like Ingemar Kihlström is right that we have a very good track record in terms of control of the legal weapons in society. That is why I am now concerned that you want to loosen it up. Let us ensure that the figure 1.2 continues to be so low or perhaps zero in the future. There is no contradiction between investing in good control of legal weapons and strengthening efforts against illegal weapons.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-232	Madam President, I would like I still think the focus is wrong if we focus on whether you have seven or five weapons in your locked gun cabinet. After all, it has been established that a small percentage of them are disappearing and cause problems. That is not where the main focus should be when we discuss gang crime, where weapons and explosives flow across our borders. I ask again: will the government give priority to the Customs Agency's resources and powers in the autumn budget?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-234	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to go ahead with a budget negotiation either. Let me just say that if the government is forced to spend a lot of time, resources and money on reducing the control of legal weapons and loosening the regulatory framework for this, there is less money left to investigate strengthened measures against gang crime. Unfortunately, the wrong focus is the Christian Democrats.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-235	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by taking this opportunity to thank the Moderates for the important debate today. I am absolutely convinced that in order to achieve success in pushing back the gangs and the violence, it is necessary that we have continued to focus on the police and that we tighten penalties and provide better tools for the police. This is required in order to put an end to the violence. But crime prevention work is also required, which has been lifted by several parliamentary parties. This must go hand in hand if we are to succeed in this. There has been a discussion that we have done a lot. There have been many penalties and many investments in the police lately. And I can promise that there will be much more in the coming time, not least in the autumn. We come up with proposals on secret data reading, on prepaid cards, on penalties for explosives, on customs powers and on new penalties for young people. And so there will be a lot more in the autumn. I look forward to continuing to work with the Riksdag in this important work, because I am convinced that it will produce results if we make these efforts.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-242	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Svenneling has asked me whether I intend to proceed with a process of Swedish signature and ratification of the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention and whether I intend to use the Stockholm meeting to give further impetus to the work on this Convention. Mr President, I would like to I have had occasion to note on several occasions in this House that the return of nuclear weapons to major politics is one of our greatest foreign and security policy challenges. In this year's foreign declaration, I mentioned several examples of things that have made the nuclear threat more real today than in decades. A single human error can cause a devastating humanitarian disaster. The government's clear priority for disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is therefore both self-evident and necessary. This priority is underpinned by a political and practical commitment that is both broad and deep. A key element is the disarmament policy initiative in support of the NPT, launched by the government in the spring. The response has been strong. On 11 June, I hosted a ministerial meeting in Stockholm with the participation of 15 countries involved in disarmament from different continents and with different security policy profiles. A meeting declaration was adopted highlighting the need to strengthen the implementation of the NPT disarmament component by means of measures that could gain broad support. These should aim to reduce risks of nuclear use, strengthen transparency and build trust between nuclear and non-nuclear states. The latter is a prerequisite for real progress in disarmament. In this way, the government's approach focuses on what is practicable but also on a clear direction for a nuclear-free world. The Stockholm Declaration also underlines the country's intention to work together for the NPT Review Conference next year, 2020. The starting point, and what unites this circle, is an explicit focus on the NPT. The UN Nuclear Ban Convention is therefore outside the scope of this initiative and was not the focus of the discussion. With regard to possible Swedish accession to the Convention, I note that we have now been able to review the referrals in connection with Ambassador Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin's investigation. The question is being prepared for a decision.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-250	Mr President, I would like to Nuclear weapons are the only weapon of mass destruction that can destroy all mankind – several go about. The use of less than 1 percent of today's nuclear arsenal would result in mass death and climate collapse with misgrowth and mass starvation as a result. A major nuclear war would probably make our planet uninhabitable for human life for the foreseeable future. Five years after the nuclear bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945, they had killed 340 000 people. To this day, more than 200 000 people, survivors and their children, are being cared for for for damage and diseases caused by the American bombs. At a time of increased tension and armament, the nuclear issue is a matter of fate comparable to the climate issue. A new report from the Sipri Peace Research Institute notes that several nuclear weapons countries are acquiring more nuclear weapons and that several nuclear weapons are being modernised. In 2021, the New Start Agreement between the United States and Russia expires, and the two states that hold 90 percent of the world's nuclear weapons have no plans for further disarmament. The United States recently published its updated nuclear doctrine, for the first time in years. The doctrine shows more openly than before how the United States plans to use weapons of mass destruction. China, India and Pakistan have expanded their nuclear arsenals. It is very possible that North Korea has expanded its arsenal, although there is considerable uncertainty about this. There are now barely 14 000 nuclear warheads in the world. There are a number who could destroy us over and over again. Next year it will be time for the NPT follow-up conference, the Non-Proliferation Treaty. These follow-up conferences are held every five years. As the Foreign Minister attended in April, a pre-meeting was held at the UN in New York, and two weeks ago Margot Wallström invited 15 countries to a meeting in Sweden. I would like to commend the Foreign Minister for the initiative. It is welcome that 15 countries have agreed on a joint declaration for disarmament. I would have liked the government to have translated the declaration in order to make it easier for Swedish citizens to access its contents. Of the 15 countries invited by the Foreign Minister, some have signed the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention, and some have not. None of the eight nuclear weapons states were in place. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs see her bringing more countries, both progressive countries that want to move forward and take precedence as well as nuclear countries? How do you get them? For example, there is a Swedish defence agreement with India. It was signed as late as February. India, like its neighbour Pakistan, has nuclear weapons. It is estimated that there are between 130 and 160 nuclear warheads. As we know, the Kashmir region was heated in the spring before it calmed down after some diplomacy. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs intend to have a specific dialogue with India, for example, with which they have a good relationship, or any other nuclear state based on the existing collaborations that Sweden has today? There are some shortcomings in the declaration. One is that there is a lack of clear wording on the humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons. The fact that this is missing in the declaration can be seen as that Sweden and the Swedish initiative back up in favour of the resistance that comes from the nuclear weapons countries. Another part that I miss is the connection to civil society. Disarmament has strong popular support in many countries. Including civil society would therefore strengthen the efforts and ambitions of states for disarmament. I also believe, like a number of experts, that there is no conflict between the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention and the NPT. It would therefore be good to have a little more clarity from the government as to when it will be announced that it will sign the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-261	Mr President, I would like to This is absolutely excellent input – I want to see it as – and ideas about how to act in the future. During the conference Germany offered to host the next meeting and to manage part of the follow-up process. That's very good. We would like to have more countries. The idea was to bring together countries known for their disarmament commitment, no matter what security policy solutions they have, whether they are NATO members or not and whether they have signed one or the other Convention or not. It worked well that way. But the idea is that at the next stage we also need to reach out to the nuclear countries. But we do not want to start by having spoilers who, so to speak, smile back all the other countries. We see the danger that, among other things, we have changed our rhetoric on the use of nuclear weapons; now we are talking about it as a useful weapon. We wanted countries interested in thinking about what to do with doctrines, how to formulate their views on nuclear weapons use in military doctrines, and about discussing the risks of accidental or deliberate use of nuclear weapons. We also need more transparency and greater transparency in the actions of nuclear weapons states. Here was the focus. I must also say that we are one of those countries which, from the outset, pointed out very clearly that it would not have been possible to achieve this far to achieve the disarmament of nuclear weapons if it had not been for civil society. It is indeed civil society organisations, not least women's organisations, in many countries that are driving this. What has been achieved recently is the introduction of the humanitarian perspective. In particular, Hibakusha, the survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, has shown that the effects of nuclear weapons use are inherited from generation to generation. I therefore believe that it has been included, but it is true that if we are to continue and make more statements, we should ensure that this is mentioned. We have also talked about writing articles. I have absolutely no objection to translating the declaration and making it easier for everyone. I think that's a good idea. We are also committed to talking about these things in bilateral contacts and in various multilateral contexts, which we think are so important. These are small but urgent steps on the way to achieving results during the review conference next year, and that is absolutely necessary. I believe that what will otherwise happen is that many more countries will consider signing the Convention as a signal because we see that there are no other ways open here, that everything is actually going backwards and in the wrong direction. But here it was about ensuring that we have a successful review conference next year and doing everything we can. I think Germany will invite again. Then I would be happy to take these points with me, which I see as supporting our position in pointing out the humanitarian consequences but also the link with civil society's actions. We will also continue to work hard to ensure that a step is taken in the right direction at the review conference next year. Secondly, we are still preparing that question. I always say it will happen soon, but it has taken a little longer than I had hoped. We'll get back to you on that.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-272	Mr President, I would like to Sweden, 338 days after it became possible, has still not signed the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. We are told that it will happen shortly and have been given it for a while. It is possible to compare with other conventions – to ban chemical weapons, cluster bombs and anti-personnel mines – which Sweden signed very quickly, almost at the first possible opportunity. The investigation set up by the government has met with severe criticism from some experts who believe that it was one-sided and marked by serious factual errors. The referral period has now expired, and the question that we repeatedly ask is whether Sweden intends to sign the Convention. Civil society has for a long time been trying to get answers about the secrecy of Lundin's sole investigation. It has turned out that Lundin's government e-mail account has been deleted and that it is not possible to obtain an e-mail log even though these are public documents. As late as early June, Margot Wallström received criticism from the KU for lack of transparency at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs – for the third year in a row. This will be another thing to add to that criticism. According to the directives, a reference group would be linked to the single investigation. If it really existed, it's been a riddle. Its members are the state authorities ISP, FOI and SSM and two ministries, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, the persons who have been in the reference group have not been made public, and its work has not been documented in any way. The question is whether it even existed. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs replied as follows: Contacts with the reference group have been informal and were carried out without protocol. Mr President, I would like to I've been in a state investigation. I would like to say that this is not the way it should be. When the investigation file was requested, it turned out that it contained only nine e-mails. That is all the documentation the investigation has submitted in one and a half years, except for its final report. The Secretary of State decided as soon as the investigation had been submitted to the government that it would be sent for a referral. The referral period has now expired. Unfortunately, a number of referrals were missing, which I think would have been important. Swedish peace and conflict researchers were missing as well as a better description from humanitarian organisations of the effects and consequences for their activities if nuclear weapons were used. It's missing among the referees. Although the Left Party is critical of the government's handling of the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention, I welcome the active commitment of the Minister for Disarmament. I think that's very good. Another government that is also showing commitment now is the Finnish government. I believe that the Foreign Minister has had the opportunity to meet his new Finnish colleague, Minister of Foreign Affairs Pekka Haavisto. He and the Red-Green Government recently joined them, and they signed Finland's agreement that they would like to have the opportunity to review the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. It does, one might say, that Sweden and Finland are now on the same point and are considering whether to sign the convention or not. I therefore wonder whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs intends to hold a dialogue with Finland on the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention on the basis that Sweden and Finland have enhanced cooperation in the field of defence. I am concerned that Mrs Wallström says that the focus should be on the new initiative. I wonder whether this focus could lead to the elimination of the work on the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention and what it can do. I believe that there is no contradiction between these two, but that we can put our energies into ensuring that next year's NP T conference will be successful, but also in signing the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. It is important to see the shortcomings in the investigation, look at them and make sure to move forward. I do not think that much has happened since the explanation of vote that Sweden left at the conference or that it has become so much clearer. Those shortcomings remain, but we can still sign.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-284	Mr President, I would like to The question of dialogue is easy to answer. Of course, we are also discussing this type of issue with Finland. After all, we are working very closely together and will also talk about this. With regard to the report that we received from investigator Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin, I would like to say right away that I have seen the newspaper data and, of course, will follow up and see exactly what is behind the very tricky answer, I think, which has been given. We'll work that out at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs as well. Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin is an independent investigator. He has had the task of highlighting the Convention's meaning and its consequences in the three main areas, both disarmament policy and defence policy, and in terms of legal effects, of a Swedish accession to the Convention. We agreed that this is an important part of the basis for taking a stand. What we know politically is that there is no majority in this House for ratification. It is another element that needs to be taken into account when discussing how to handle it. I think you have to think of it as two tracks. It could be said that the Non-Proliferation Treaty exists. It's in effect. It is ratified by enough countries. It is the only tool we have at present, and there is a living process. Although things have gone badly during the previous review conferences, it is this agreement that we have to stick to as an international framework. It is therefore important to ensure that it is a success. The second track is about the Convention and how to view it. Would it be possible to improve it? We had many points of view in the process when we were in the negotiations. Is that possible? Is there such a trail, and how do you think about it? What to do with verification? So there are a number of open questions, and it is far from certain that this will come into force and when it will happen. It is therefore a tool that is still open. But it is, of course, an important principle – no one can deny it – to try to impose a ban on weapons of mass destruction of this kind. It is also in my party's programme, and that is a clear objective that we have. However, we have also had views on the text of the Convention and how it has been drafted. I often say this: we took Sweden down from the public gallery on disarmament issues and the nuclear issue. We have done so in a number of different areas. I believe that a mark of this commitment came when we became Chairman of the IAEA, which is in charge of verification. This is an incredibly important task that we will pursue from September onwards and a year ahead. It is a task which testifies to trust and certainly also a difficult task, which I think complements the work we are doing in general. We set up a disarmament ambassador. We revived the disarmament and international law delegation. We have worked very actively in a variety of international contexts, ranging from risk dissemination to verification systems. Of course, we will continue to do so, because I see this as a task for humanity right now – to ensure that risks are reduced. Both the question of Iran and the nuclear agreement with that country and the question of North Korea's ambitions to acquire nuclear weapons are one of this broader picture. We are also very active there, both in the European Union and in the United Nations.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-295	Mr President, I would like to I would like to reaffirm the foreign minister's commitment to these issues. I think it is very good, and I think it is good that we have stepped down from the gallery, as the Foreign Minister puts it. To sum up this interpellation debate a little, we have not received any new answers regarding whether Sweden should sign the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. The question is being prepared, and a reply will be given shortly. I think it is good that the government prepares the issue well. I would have liked to have seen another process on the part of the government, but I still think it is good to think carefully about this. I think it is a pity that the Stockholm Summit is not being used to give force to the Convention. Unfortunately, the Minister said no. I think it is good that the Minister is clear that there is an in-depth dialogue with Finland. I think it may be important from a Nordic perspective that Sweden and Finland continue to have a close dialogue on defence issues but, above all, on disarmament issues – how to make it safer in our own neighbourhood. I do not feel that we have been told how to work with nuclear weapons states such as India. You're welcome to come back to that in your closing speech. I hope that the meeting for which Germany is now responsible will be successful. I think it is important for the Swedish side not to release the Germans, but to keep pressure on them and to raise these issues in different contexts. For example, both I and Mrs Wallström listened to a speech by South Korea's President Moon a while ago, which was also very clear on these issues. So it should be good to gather more countries interested in this. So, a few words about the investigation. I think it is good that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs should now review what has happened and why it has become as it has become. However, as Foreign Minister, they are responsible for the investigations they set up. This means that you have a great responsibility that everything has gone right in the investigation. Although the investigator himself is responsible for his conclusions and how he works, he has a heavy responsibility as a minister when it comes to the investigation mission itself. In doing so, Mr President, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for this interpellation debate and the answers she has given.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-303	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the government has chosen to make disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons a clear political priority in the light of the deteriorating world situation with security policy challenges such as increased tensions and risks. The goal of a nuclear-free world is more relevant and urgent than ever and still topical. At the next stage, we would like to reach out to the nuclear states and also engage in dialogue with them on the basis of what we have gathered. We wanted to get a critical mass of countries, both large and small. There are now a number of countries here – Japan and Indonesia, not to mention the European countries – from different continents that can say: we have had enough now; we want you to make progress. If we get this critical mass and a number of stepping stones, as we call it – steps forward that we can identify and agree on – we have the basis for a better dialogue with the nuclear weapons states and pressure on them. Exactly how this is to be done will probably be discussed at the next meeting. It was the first time in decades that such a collection of countries was created. Germany has a great responsibility, but I feel that they also have a strong commitment. They have also arranged meetings where I have attended, which have been about completely new types of weapons: autonomous weapons, hypersonic weapons and a series of weapons of that kind. This looks very serious and can pose major challenges for the world society. So we will certainly come back, both with more comments and proposals and with debates on this crucial issue for our time. Thank you, and nice summer!
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-308	Mr President, I would like to Pia Steensland has asked me whether I will work to include all the basic needs in the government's announced legislative proposals aimed at ensuring that all elements of respiratory and probe feeding give the right to personal assistance. I would like to start by thanking Pia Steensland for having a discussion about the personal assistance effort and the needs it should meet for people with large and permanent disabilities to be able to live like others. But I would like to begin by addressing direct factual errors in the interpellation. For example, the reduction in the number of assistance beneficiaries after 2015 was not due to statements made by the Minister of Finance, but mainly due to indicative rulings which in turn affected the assessment of personal assistance needs. Contrary to what Pia Steensland claims, the government has taken steps to create better predictability for people with disabilities who have personal assistance and to prevent the impact of future changes in practice. It was for this reason that the two-year trials were removed, with the view that they should be reinstated as soon as there are conditions for it. The amendment entered into force on 1 April 2018. At the same time, a change of law came into force that restored the right to personal assistance for waiting and preparedness during a daily rest period as well as for time between specified assistance needs in connection with activities outside the individual's home. However, I agree with Pia Steensland that there is a need to do more. The memo on breathing and probe feeding, which was referred to on 21 February, responds to the announcement made by the Riksdag to the Government in December 2018. Almost all the consultation bodies were in favour of the memo's proposal, but several felt that a supplement was needed which meant that the entire time it took to meet the need for probe feeding and respiratory assistance should be assistance-based. The government shares this view. However, it does not follow from the Riksdag's announcement that help with breathing and probing should be assessed according to principles other than other basic needs. Since the referral bodies' additions differ from the Parliament's order in the announcement, a new assessment basis is needed, and the Government has begun the preparation of such a legislative proposal. However, in order to deal with the situation of those who need assistance in breathing, the government will shortly be submitting proposals to the Riksdag to meet this need. The Government also intends to urgently return with legislative proposals in accordance with the views of the consultation bodies. As I said in a previous debate, Pia Steensland's question of working to include all the basic needs in the bill announced by the government is a major issue, and there is no work going on to make changes for all the basic needs. The issue concerns important principles regarding the operation of personal assistance, which are reflected in the preparatory work for LSS and which mean that the assistance must be reserved for demanding or in different respects complicated situations, usually of a very personal nature. What the government intends to do during its term of office is to implement, in cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals, a number of measures in accordance with the January Agreement, with the aim of ensuring that personal assistance and assistance payments are of high quality and legal certainty. The crucial thing for me is to protect personal assistance and ensure that it remains reserved to people who, because of large and permanent disabilities, need individualised support measures in order to be able to live like others and that the help is given by the individual himself and has confidence in.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-317	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. The Minister of Social Affairs usually says it's a wake-up call that the two of us meet here to discuss the LSS. I really wish it wouldn't be necessary. But I can promise the Minister that I will continue to be a voice for those who cannot make themselves heard in this House. We Christian Democrats used to say that we have to save the LSS in order to give people with disabilities an opportunity to live – not just survive. But now it has gone so far that we have such an inhuman reality that we have to save the LSS in order for people with disabilities to actually survive. Living a life like others – what was the intention of the LSS – has become a luxury that, unfortunately, today is too few granted. We Christian Democrats will therefore continue to make demands on the government until those who need assistance and their families can once again rely on the LSS. Mr President, I would like to In his reply, the Minister commented on the reason for the severe cuts in assistance payments. I agree with the Minister for Social Affairs that it is indicative judgments that have adversely affected the needs assessment of personal assistance. But it was only in 2016 that Försäkringskassan began to interpret old judgments from 2009, 2012 and 2015 more restrictively. The fact that the agency started dusting off these old judgments coincided with the fact that it had received a government regulation letter with directives to break the cost development of the assistance reimbursement. That this coincidence would be a coincidence, I hold too unlikely. Mr President, I would like to According to the Minister for Social Affairs' reply, the Minister considers that the announcement resulting from the KD-M budget was not strong enough to ensure that the entire time taken to perform the probe would be essential. I find it remarkable that the government chooses to interpret our announcement so narrowly. But perhaps it is an afterthought to conceal the government's own slowness and its inadequacy in the matter. In the spring of 2018, a judgment came that established that feeding as a meal would be basic needs. But Försäkringskassan continued to assess that it was only the time for relaxation and relaxation of the probe that was counted. That is why we Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, had to push for the government to ensure that in practice seed feeding would also count as basic needs. The fact that the government's bill in the memorandum did not cover this loophole is therefore distressing, especially given that the January agreement also established that the right to assistance for self-care, including breathing and probe feeding, would be ensured. I also find it remarkable that during my interpellation debate immediately after the government released the memo in February, the Minister did not show any understanding of the shortcomings of the bill and the possible consequences that were later highlighted by the consultation bodies. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, of course, I think it is good that the government has come to an understanding and takes the criticisms of the referral bodies seriously. However, I am very critical that the government chooses not to prepare a bill that would ensure that all the time it takes to perform all the basic needs should be assistance-based. My concern is that the special regulation that the government will introduce for breathing and gavage means that today's case law for other basic needs is permanent. Then, for example, it will continue to be so that only the time it takes to dry the butt, but not the time it takes to perform the need in the toilet, will be counted as basic needs. That, in my opinion, is completely unworthy! I wonder if the Minister of Social Affairs does not see these risks. I would also like a clearer answer as to why the government chooses not to review all the basic needs now that a preparatory work is to be carried out anyway. It would give the right to assistance and life back to more people than just those who need assistance for probe feeding and breathing.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-326	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that I am absolutely convinced that Pia Steensland is well aware that this is very complicated, even if it does not sound that way in this particular speech. I think it is unfortunate if we describe the situation as simply adding something. If all privacy-related needs were to be seen as fundamental, it is a huge change. It is not just adding it to the preparation dossier. The concept of integrity is included in the original legislation and in all preparatory work. It's very complicated. As far as the whole assistance is concerned, I also think it would be welcome if Pia Steensland described it as being very much in agreement with all parties that things have to be done. With all due respect for Pia Steensland's and the Christian Democrats' commitment to the issue, not least during the time when Maria Larsson was responsible for the government, I would like to say that there are more parties who have a great deal of commitment to the issue. That's exactly how I feel about it. I do not feel that there is any party that is more specific than others. The reason why the whole autumn had to go without any initiative was simply that there was a transitional government that was unable to act, to take political initiatives, to put proposals on the table of Parliament or to conduct investigations. It is, I can confirm, an incredibly frustrating situation, and we hope that in the future Sweden will not have such long passages when people are forced to wait for initiatives that politicians really want to take but are not able to take. As regards specifically how to disintegrate assistance and look at the basic needs, I would like to say – as I have described earlier in this House and perhaps also in the interpellation debate with Pia Steensland – that I was, of course, vice-chairman of the Social Committee in 2010-2014 and had the privilege of having a lot of dialogue with the then responsible Minister of State Maria Larsson. It was just then, in 2009, that the verdict came. I remember that we in the Social Affairs Committee were very concerned, and we shared that concern with the Ministry of Social Affairs. We wondered what this would mean: What are the consequences, how can you cut this up and how can you see that it is not about whole sequences and a whole period? How can you measure minutes? Then it was not a political initiative that had been taken, but it was just a verdict. The ability to act was perceived by me as very limited. It was about redoing the law not just a little bit, but it was very extensive. Unfortunately, no changes were made in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 or 2014. We have continued to see that judgments have been passed there – I am absolutely convinced – the Parliament's Chamber would not make the same assessments. If we are now to change the way judgments are handed down, we need to change the legislation. Then, together with the Center Party and the Liberals in the January agreement, the government has decided on the order of breathing, probing, then self-care and waning parental responsibility, then the headship. There we have put our foot down and said that this is what we are going to achieve. It's very extensive. But, of course, it is not the case that assistance will be perfect when this is done, but there is obviously more to do, but it is very complicated. Let me also just emphasise that it has never been in any regulatory letter to Försäkringskassan to break any cost development, but it is quite correct that at one point there was to be a break in hourly development. To say that the authority would thus depart from the legislation and simply violate the existing legislation and preparatory work is, I think, going a little too far. However, we do have situations where the law needs to be changed. It is a great deal of work. If all integrity-related needs were to be seen as fundamental, it would be very comprehensive. I think Pia Steensland sees it too.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-336	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs. Of course, I see that this is an emergency situation, and I appreciate that the Minister for Social Affairs is expressing a consensus. I know that the Minister of Social Affairs personally has that commitment. That's also why my frustration gets so great when things go so slowly. There's no going back from the facts. The statistics clearly show that there was a change in 2016. It was then that many people began to fall out of the system. Today, very many people do not even get the chance to enter the system. It's supposed to be a life insurance policy for all of us. We could have a stroke or a serious traffic accident tomorrow. We don't know. Then the LSS will cover, but that is not the case today. It is many years that this has been going on. The Minister of Social Affairs refers to the autumn of last year, but it all started earlier than that. Reports from the agency showed in December 2017 that we have a situation where, based on current case law, people do not receive the support they need to cope with their everyday lives. Reports show that children with extensive disabilities who have lost their state and municipal assistance today are much more likely to end up in orphanages, institutions, even though families would rather have the child grow up at home in their family. I believe that it is the government's duty to make sure that we take a firm stance in order to actually do something about this. Although this is a complex situation, the first steps must be taken to restore assistance compensation. There was also time last autumn when we had a transitional government. Even when it was a transitional government, we in the Social Committee called the Minister to the committee to tell them that there was a consensus in the committee on breathing and feeding. We asked what we could do. There is a political consensus here, and then it should not be a controversial political issue. Then, too, a transitional government should have been able to act, because it is an emergency situation. People's lives and families are being torn apart. People's most basic needs – for example, personal hygiene, meals and dressing – are divided into minutes and seconds. And due to the stricter interpretation of old judgments by Försäkringskassan, today only a small, small part counts. The Minister of Social Affairs knows that only a small part of the basic needs count. For example, it is only dressing and dressing the clothes closest to the body. Personally, I would not like to go out in my underwear, and I think the same applies to the Minister for Social Affairs. The Minister for Social Affairs, like me, says that this is a difficult situation. That is why it is difficult to understand why the Minister does not take the necessary steps and make sure to change the law so that all basic needs are taken into account in their entirety now that the possibility exists, with this preparation. The Minister of Social Affairs is in power to restore the intention with the LSS. The Minister of Social Affairs refers to the January Agreement between the Government Parties, the Center Party and the Liberals. I wonder whether it should be interpreted as meaning that nothing other than what is explicitly written about the LSS under paragraph 64 will be carried out under the leadership of the Social Democrats during this term of office.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-346	Mr President, I would like to I think that Pia Steensland could devote the next speech a little bit to describing whether it is urgent and easy to address this issue or whether it is urgent and complicated. I think that would be very welcome. It would also facilitate our continued dialogues. If there is a picture that this would be easy to handle, I really understand all the frustration that people feel and the anger that is gradually being built up and directed at those who do not then make the simple decision. That it's important is one thing. We fully agree that this is a matter of great urgency. But if Pia Steensland thinks this is easy, we don't agree on that part. When Swedish legislation is to be amended, it needs to be investigated – that's how it works. It'll take some time. In addition, it should be handled in the form of bills and the like. It'll take time. I also think it is important to say something when it comes to the fundamentality of all privacy needs. Since it is so consistent in the whole of the original LSS legislation with regard to assistance, it is also not the case that it is written on a single occasion. The law doesn't have that design. On the contrary, it is very pervasive. It's, quite simply, complicated. That doesn't mean we shouldn't deal with the issue. That's not the message I'm sending. Last night I met a family of children who described their situation when they got rid of the assistance three years ago with reference to judgments. Happily, that particular family had just received back the assistance for the sons. A lot of others haven't got it. But to describe it as the government has done nothing does not seem like a true picture either. I think it is important to say that just over a year ago, in April 2018, a number of things happened. I'm thinking about the verdict on probe feeding and that it should be the right to assistance. Then I guess not only me but also all those who need assistance in connection with probe feeding thought that we now finally got a verdict that went our way. Nor was that possible, so even when there are judgments that change practice, it does not change in the way that I believe this House would decide whether it was up to the House to take that decision. Now it's not. It was also decided to abolish a two-year review. The decision was made to include waiting time and preparedness so that assistance should not be seen as a minute intervention – of course no one can build up assistance in this way. Pia Steensland describes it as the government is still reviewing this and could change it. I appeal that we jointly try to describe the complex work that it is. It is about how a law of rights and its application somehow genuinely clash with how we build legislation and how the democratic system works. Had it been politicians who had made changes to LSS legislation on personal assistance, there would have been extensive processes. Then it would have been investigations to be referred. People would be able to speak – individuals, municipalities, organisations and parties. We had had debates in Parliament. We had made decisions. But now it's just the opposite. Authorities interpret the law and make a decision. It is reviewed, and when that judgment comes, practices change overnight. When we are going to face it from the political side, we are going to face it with the democratic approach of investigations, preparations and consultation. That's really incredibly complicated. I would like to say that children may need many different forms of support, and assistance is an important part. The whole of LSS legislation is certainly in need of revision. Part of this has been signalled in the January agreement. That doesn't mean it's the only thing we're going to do.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-355	Mr President, I would like to Of course it's complicated, but it has to start. I think that many of the people who are in tremendous difficulty would be able to fight a little more if they felt a hope. Of course we'll do all the preparations. I understand that we should not bypass them. However, we are now in the process of introducing special arrangements for certain basic needs. It will be investigated and prepared. This should be done for all basic needs. It's about so much more than re-establishing the LSS. It is about human dignity and the society in which we live. Today, people with disabilities and their families need to fight against authorities every day for what should be their obvious right according to the LSS. People most in need of social support will continue to live with a fear of the future. Initiatives must be taken. We Christian Democrats want a society in which people with extensive disabilities have a self-evident right to personal assistance. Like all of us, they have the right to participate in society and live their lives fully on their own unique conditions. I and the Christian Democrats will therefore continue to push the government on this issue. We cannot compromise human dignity. I would therefore like to see an initiative taken urgently to review all the basic needs.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-358	Mr President, I would like to I can guarantee not only Pia Steensland and the rest of this House, but also everyone who looks at this that we are working incredibly intensively on the whole of LSS legislation and on personal assistance. It is about doing this the democratic way of investigation and so on and in terms of engagement. It's about meeting people and trying to understand and see how many different needs there are. If we had seen a lack of legislation, that would be one thing, but there are several parts to it. Breathing and probing is what we can experience as an emergency and which is actually vital. One might think it should be extremely obvious. We also have self-care. We have parental responsibility. We have oversight. There are many different parts to this. The Law Council gave its opinion on the bill in terms of breathing. You might think it would be incredibly easy just to make sure that breathing is a basic need. Not even that was easy. I recommend to anyone who is interested and who has not already looked at the Council's opinion to actually look at it. The Council's opinion is not just about breathing, but about the whole concept of self-care, and it makes the issue much bigger. We do not intend to take all of this into account, because then we will not get anywhere. I am no doubt prepared to do things more quickly. I would also like to say that when it comes to the right to assistance, the legislation is clear. We do not want to change the law in order to limit people's opportunities in any way, but we want to ensure that we have a law that is in line with reality and with the ambitions and intentions that existed from the beginning. But it's also about what wasn't really covered in the first place. That, of course, is our problem with 25-year-old legislation. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to make changes after previous investigations, but it has been investigated, and then the issue has been put on the shelf. Now we need to ensure that we step up our efforts. The points of the January Agreement come first.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-363	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me whether I and the government intend to initiate a change in the regulatory framework that means that only emergency care and treatment should be offered to adults residing in the country without permission. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has also asked me what the government is doing to ensure that people who do not have the right to participate fully in the welfare system will not do so either. In addition, she has asked what the government is doing about the fact that care that cannot be tolerated is not interpreted in the same way throughout the country and what the government is doing to ensure that the concept of care that cannot be tolerated is redesigned so that the state does not give a double message to people who are illegally in Sweden. The interpellant expressed similar views and questions on a parliamentary question that I answered a few months ago. Once again, I have to say that adults who have been residing in Sweden without a permit since 2013 have the right to health care that cannot be granted to them (2013:407) on health care to certain foreigners who are staying in Sweden without the necessary permits. The Government considers that there is no reason to change this regime. With regard to the question of what the government is doing about the notion of care which cannot be allowed to be interpreted in the same way throughout the country, I should like to point out once again that the assessment of which care cannot stand for a patient may be determined on a case-by-case basis by the treating doctor, dentist or other responsible health care provider. Only the treating physician or other responsible healthcare professional has knowledge of the patient's individual circumstances that can assess what measures are required and when. The government also considers that there is no reason to change this system.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-370	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. I have asked the Minister of Social Affairs similar questions before, and I am grateful that she reminds me of that. I did not intend to hold any kind of migration debate at the time, nor did I intend to do so now. But what is at the heart of this issue is that a sustainable migration policy is determined by how laws and regulations are implemented in our society and what signals society sends to those who may or may not stay. That in Sweden you can live as undocumented or illegally stay here and take part of our entire well-being, I do not think is fair. The fact that it is also interpreted differently depending on where in Sweden one is staying gives incorrect signals. Of Sweden's 21 regions today, 6 regions have chosen to interpret the concept of care which cannot be left entirely different from what the other regions have done. This means that the signals are completely wrong. I believe that we need to be more clear in describing what care that cannot be granted and in limiting health care for adults who are illegally staying in the country in a clearer way than is being done today. I can't consider contraceptive counseling to be care that can't stand it. I cannot consider care that can counteract a more serious medical condition to be care that cannot be tolerated. There are a number of points that the National Board of Health and Welfare has developed in defining care that cannot stand up, and we have a challenge to clarify this so that we can achieve equivalence throughout the country. I therefore wish that the Minister for Social Affairs could be clear about what the government considers to be care that cannot stand up to so that we have an equality throughout the country.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-376	Mr President, I would like to I find it gratifying that there is an interest in healthcare issues in the Moderates and thought that I should be happy to devote this interpellation to that. However, as Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm himself says, this is not a migration debate. That is exactly what Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm's post is then about. We'll see what the next post will be. I can only say that when the interpellant literally says that people come to Sweden and are allowed to take part of our entire welfare, I don't think any of us would be satisfied with the healthcare that undocumented people and people without permission to stay in Sweden get. I would like to hear the interpellant develop how they can take part in our entire well-being, when it comes to emergency care and care that cannot stand up. I myself am not medically trained and do not intend to go in and discuss illness and what can lead to what. That is exactly what we have the National Board of Health and Welfare as an expert authority for, and that is also the task of health professionals. There are no plans to amend the legislation developed by the Alliance Government in 2013. What is "unable" care is an issue that needs to be determined on the basis of an individual assessment. Of course, what people have is not translated into a list of three, four or five bets, or how Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm thinks of this. I also find it fascinating that when Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm from the Moderates is now going to raise healthcare issues, which I still understand that this interpellation is about, it is not about how we should have good healthcare in Sweden or for our elderly, how we should prevent people from ending up between chairs, how we should make sure to cope with specialised care or how huge tax cuts should be able to meet major demographic challenges and growing healthcare and care needs. Instead, the perspective is that people who come to Sweden should not receive care that cannot stand up. I would be happy to come back in the next speech and talk more about the health debate that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm is calling for. But I would like to have an answer to how you can express yourself as that people who reside illegally in Sweden can do so. What is in that concept for Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-383	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the Minister for Social Affairs, I have a long medical background and am very committed to healthcare. I own and run a health centre in Västerbotten's interior, which means a great commitment and a great knowledge of healthcare. I put this interpellation on the basis that, as has been said, there are a number of regions in Sweden that, according to the parliamentary investigation service, have chosen, according to their own political decisions, to move away from the concept of care that cannot be retained and instead offer undocumented people and people who reside illegally in the country full access to our entire welfare system when it comes to healthcare. We know from before that we have very long care lines. We also know that this means increased expenditure for the Swedish state when people are in long-term care queues. We should be very careful to use the treatment guidelines that we develop for individual conditions. This shall apply to all. My entry into this is that if you reside illegally in the country you should not be entitled to our entire welfare system and all the treatment guidelines, treatments and care available. In 2013, the Act was amended. As a moderate, I think that we should return to the order in force before 2013, when the legislation was much stricter in terms of care that cannot stand up. It was much clearer how it would be interpreted. I would like to put the question once again to the Minister for Social Affairs: does the Minister for Social Affairs think it fair that we have such different interpretations of care that cannot stand in the country? Is it fair for regions to offer illegal residents and asylum seekers who have been given an expulsion decision to take precedence over gender and pay significantly lower fees than Swedish citizens are allowed to do today?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-389	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm's personal experience of care, my view is that politicians, especially in the Swedish Parliament, should not act as if we were all sitting on that knowledge. It is the personal encounter with the patient that must decide. I very much hope that all health professionals will see the individual they meet. There is legislation today on health care that cannot stand up. There is no legislation that says that the person who resides illegally in the country has the right to all care, that is, the right to take part in Swedish welfare with the same conditions as the one who is a Swedish citizen or has a residence permit and the right to reside in the country. We do not have such legislation. We are not going to change the legislation. But the question is what application is like. It is well appropriate that the issue be raised in the contexts and in the regions and county councils where, according to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm's opinion, the law is so grossly violated. But changing the law today has no intention of doing so. It is important that we discuss migration policy in the context of migration policy. To tell people that they should not stop by not giving them emergency care or care that cannot stand is inhumane. Migration policy is about having a return agreement with a third country and to carry out workplace inspections to discover which people are illegally staying in Sweden. It is a very important piece of work, and there has been a lot to do after the government took over in 2014. It is also a question of increasing detention capacity to carry out removal more effectively than could have been done in the past. If Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm thinks that the Swedish Parliament should amend the legislation on emergency care or care that cannot be accepted, I can say that we do not agree. I think we should give that care. If there are situations, regions or county councils where you do not comply with the law properly, it is important to raise the issue in the political assemblies, i.e. whether they make decisions that go against Swedish law.
i-2Sb9MYZrK7C9tyqZ3xrtZi	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My entry into the interpellation is that there is no clarity and that there is a preference for interpretation. This means that six regions in the country make a completely different interpretation of the concept of care that cannot be tolerated, i.e. that a paperless or asylum seeker with expulsion decisions has the same right to care, habilitation, dental care or assistive devices as persons who are Swedish citizens. As I have said before, I have no intention of conducting a migration debate, but what I lack is clarity in the legislation that prevents regions from making their own interpretations and treating people in a completely different way. I conclude my speech by thanking the Government for its clear answers, and I wish the Minister a pleasant summer.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-399	Mr President, I would like to I thank Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm. I would like to conclude briefly and clearly this interpellation round by saying that the Parliament decided in 2013 on a legislation that says that anyone staying in Sweden is not entitled to treatment that is urgent or care that cannot be tolerated. The National Board of Health and Welfare is the authority that the government has at its disposal as an expert with knowledge in the field. The Authority has developed guidelines. It is then that healthcare professionals and doctors in the meeting with the individual should make the assessment of whether the need is urgent and cannot resist. There is no point in making any change in this. However, it is incredibly important that migration policy is long-term, firm and clear on how to act when people do not have the right to stay in Sweden. We are limiting welfare in itself, but we are going to face these issues through migration policy, through detention, through return, through police officers and much more that we are working on in parallel. I wish Elisabeth a nice summer.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-405	Mr President, I would like to Karin Rågsjö has asked me how I will follow up NKS's responsibility regarding the national obligations as a national university hospital, whether I will call responsible politicians in the Stockholm Region to get more information about the current situation, how we can in future avoid that the care patients may not be subjected to systems that cause so many people to suffer, and at what time I believe that the state must intervene to save a hospital whose structure causes patients to suffer injury. The government has been monitoring the development of New Karolinska for a long time. What would have been Sweden's best hospital has become not only Sweden's but one of the world's most expensive hospitals, and in addition to running costs for construction and operation, there have been reports of extensive consultancy fees with a lack of evidence and risk for patient safety. Today, the project can't be called anything but a scandal. The government has had expectations that the county council will handle the situation. When this has not happened, the government has acted in different ways. Among other things, the Swedish Government's preparation for medical and social evaluation has been tasked with making a knowledge compilation on value-based care, on which a large part of the re-organisations within New Karolinska are based. The report shows that there is scarce research on value-based care, and the research that exists is flawed. The Government further established an investigation in February 2018 to ensure that something like this will never happen again. The investigator was tasked with ensuring that the facts are on the table in terms of both the elements related to contractual collaborations between the public and private, so-called OPS solutions, and the parts related to the use of process and organisational support. The investigation shall also identify how relevant control mechanisms have been applied in the decision-making and implementation of procurement, investment and major organisational changes, and identify risks of non-use of public funds in an efficient and efficient manner. The mandate also includes making proposals for constitutional changes if necessary. New Karolinska is not only a hospital for Stockholmers, it is also one of the country's most important hospitals for university care and is internationally considered. The hospital is responsible for the training of staff, for the development of Swedish healthcare and for clinical research. Nya Karolinska also has a number of assignments to carry out national highly specialised care with responsibility towards the rest of the country, where treatments are carried out that are not done anywhere else in Sweden or in very few places. Two of the government's main tools in the work of governing the kingdom are government control and the possibility of proposing new laws to the Riksdag. Both of these tools may be tested to avoid a situation similar to that of New Karolinska reoccurring.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-412	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister Hallengren for the informative answer. It is clear that we are united, and much is going on to prevent similar breakdowns. I never tend to highlight individual hospitals except when they have a rich mission, that is, a national mission. The new Karolinska Hospital affects the whole of Sweden. It's a university hospital with a national responsibility for highly specialised child surgery. The NKS has become a known hospital, not because of the care, but because of scandals that go back on virtually every level. At the New Karolinska Hospital, a very skilled and competent staff is working. They're world-class staff, and they carry care, but they're also on their knees. It's an economic collapse. The new Karolinska Hospital has a deficit of 1.5 billion for 2019, and 500 people will be dismissed. It will affect the staff on the floor and thus also the patients. Mr President, I would like to The human resources situation is serious. As in many other places in Sweden, it is about stress, low wages and staff shortages, which means that health professionals are dismissed. The people I've met – nurses, specialist nurses and biomedical analysts – testify that they feel very bad at the New Karolinska Hospital. They barely have time to go to the bathroom, and colleagues cry at work and go into the wall. Moreover, despite the overcrowding of the departments, even more patients come in because of closed care places elsewhere. Some patients end up in departments where the care skills they need are lacking. This, of course, endangers patient safety in a hospital that is assigned to care for the most sick in the region. I can only mention that the Stockholm region should be far better able to cope with the human resources situation in the healthcare sector. There are a lot of people to hire in this region, and I think that should have been done. The lack of personnel has also become an expensive business for the region – due to a shortage of staff, Region Stockh Olm has purchased renters for SEK 658 million in 2018. That's quite a considerable sum. At Nya Karolinska, only 10 out of 28 child surgery clinics are open. It hits very hard: 1,700 children queue for surgery, and the surgical queues are growing. The total surgical queues at Karolinska Hospital have grown by 46 per cent in four years, and for children the increase has been 131 per cent since 2015. That's an extreme number. This is a university hospital with a national responsibility for national health care assignments in children's surgery. In view of the chaos of the everyday life of New Karolinska, I am seriously concerned about the children who are being sent from all over the country to New Karolinska Hospital. Will the New Karolinska Hospital fix its commitment to operate on children from all over the country? Mr President, I would like to How will Minister Hallengren follow up NKS's responsibility for the national commitments as a national university hospital?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-420	Mr President, I would like to I thank Karin Rågsjö both for the question and for the speech – and for the opportunity not only before the Chamber but before interested listeners to discuss something that is discussed in healthcare far beyond NKS and far beyond Stockholm County Council's borders. I meet representatives, both politicians and people in the profession and citizens, who are themselves about to make investments and think: After all, it does not seem possible to build a hospital that adheres to the framework and budget that we had at the outset. It is in itself very worrying; we have great needs in the future. Karin Rågsjö also knows that many regions are about to make investments not only to fix and freshen up but to ensure that healthcare can meet the new challenges we face. It is about ensuring that the old buildings from the 60s and 70s can actually meet the care needs we see – in addition to switching to good and close care, primary care and so on. It's very serious in itself. As far as this situation is concerned, which I do not have to explain because Karin Rågsjö has described it well, there are an enormous number of people who are being squeezed. Then I mean not only patients, but not least staff, given the rotation we see. With all due respect for the fact that this is a university hospital, which is, to some extent, a national health service, I would like to say that this is a matter in which I know that both Karin Rågsjös and my own party friends in the region are really incredibly involved. They want nothing but to have all the cards on the table, to sort out the situation and to do their best to get the staff a work situation that works and for patients to get the care they need. However, it is incredibly demanding, and it is a huge job that both the political leadership and the hospital management have ahead of them. What the government has done, as I mentioned, is really looking at this with OPS solutions. In February 2018, that is, just over a year ago, an investigator was commissioned to ensure that something similar does not happen again and that the facts come on the table. The investigator will also look at the parts dealing with contractual collaboration between the public and the private, which is what OPS stands for. When the investigator comes back and has mapped how relevant control mechanisms have been applied – how procurements, investments and major organisational changes have been carried out – as well as identified risks of public funds not being used in the way that is intended and intended, it is important for the House to make proposals for constitutional changes. That's the most important part. It is Stockholm County Council that must deal with the situation that has arisen. There has been a mixture of bad control and other things. I'm not going to say that it's unreflected to bring in something like value-based care– which I think quite a few really can sort out what it's about – and let that way of working and approach to care permeate such an important activity, but it almost feels like it. So I am waiting for the investigation, and I think the whole House is. We want to know how we can ensure that this does not happen again.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-429	Mr President, I would like to I am extremely pleased that there is so much going on around what has happened around the New Karolinska Hospital, that is, when it comes to what we can arrange at national level. But it is certainly a major issue for the region – absolutely. The deficit of 1.5 billion is hysterically large. Unfortunately, I have to say that the leadership, with the knowledge of the region's politicians, has put this mountain of guilt before it. As I said, they have chosen the management model value-based care, which was introduced by the now state-owned consulting company Boston Consulting Group, BCG. They have invoiced the New Karolinska Hospital a quarter of a billion. Unfortunately, a large part of the invoices could not be derived; such things happen in this region. Sitting finance councillor Iréne Svenonius has been suspected of shit. She opposed an external review of the consulting and invoice management at NKS. This has then been followed up by Dagens Nyheter, who in an external review stated that Iréne Svenonius was a bastard. When you follow the tours around New Karolinska it feels like you're sitting and watching a series at Netflix in the evenings: It's extremely exciting, and you have some distance to it. But this is happening for real. This is therefore the reality of the bourgeois-governed Region of Stockholm, where the Green Party is now also part of an unlikely soup. The new operating model is strongly criticised and is also considered to have caused a very fragmented healthcare chain in the hospital. There is no overview of cost control and overall thinking. This will now be reviewed. It has been decided by the region itself, and it is very good. However, this is a model you might not want to see introduced in the rest of Sweden, so you have to have some look at it. You can also talk about the number of managers, who have risen from 600 to 900 because of this model. The interesting thing about the model is that it has been taken from the United States, and when you study this more closely you see that it will benefit patients with a diagnosis or easier ailments. This is certainly not the group that Nya Karolinska has chosen to care for, but it is highly specialised. I have to ask how it is possible that responsible politicians can continue to drain a hospital with national interest. Will the Minister call responsible politicians in the Stockholm Region for more information on the current situation, Mr President? One could say that the bourgeois experiment with value-based care has gone awry. The New Karolinska Medical Association has been very critical all along. There has been an increase in the number of managers and the increased costs, as well as the care that has been squeezed away. This applies specifically to multisick patients, who have fallen between the chairs when no one has assumed overall responsibility. Doctors also testify that, at times, civil disobedience has been forced, almost, to protect the health of patients. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister, therefore, is how in future we can avoid the care patients receive being subjected to systems that cause so many people to suffer.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-437	I would like to remind the debaters that we are debating in Parliament and not in the Stockholm County Council. It is a fine balancing process to focus the debate on what is really national affairs and not to mention particularities in county policy. I am also reluctant to point out individual companies in a chamber debate in the way that has taken place here; I do not think it is entirely appropriate.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-439	Mr President, I would like to There is, of course, a reason why the NKS is being debated in this House. This is the very first example of OPS in Sweden, and as far as I understand, none of the parties involved are in favour of a OPS solution today. This applies both to the regions that have signed the agreement and to the construction company, and it says something. But how are we to ensure that we do not just make decisions on how to procure? How do we acquire proper knowledge to be sure – to be very much related to the responsibilities of this House – that the health care law is what applies? People, whether they live in this country or not, should feel that they are receiving the care they need and to which they are entitled. There, the different parts of healthcare need to work together and work together. There is, of course, one aspect when a university hospital that carries out national health care ends up in a very difficult situation. I would like to reply directly to the question put by Karin Rågsjö as to whether I will call any representatives. I won't. However, I am waiting for the results of the investigation that is looking at OPS solutions and how we will ensure that we conclude the agreements and have the control mechanisms that must be in place for investments to take place in the future. As I began by saying, I am concerned about all the major investments that healthcare is facing. These investments must be carried out with good control. It is a question of daring and wanting and understanding that investment is needed, but also that the bill is the one that politicians themselves have calculated and budgeted for and the one that citizens have expected. Karin Rågsjö asked a question that I do not really remember. I can only say that, as in all regions, we are faced with the voters every four years and that we can either continue or not. On the other hand, we have a mission here to ensure that we can ensure that we have care as needed. I intend to come back to the House on this so that we have proposals when the investigations that we have put in place come back.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-446	Mr President, I would like to I should never have brought up an individual hospital in, let's say, Linköping. The hospital we are talking about, the New Karolinska Hospital, has a rich mission. It is one of the most prestigious hospitals we have in Sweden, and it is also very internationally known. Research is also conducted there. The hospital is therefore a national interest on several levels and has had a very good reputation – it has to be said anyway. This is also about the task of the New Karolinska Hospital in Sweden to operate on children who have special difficulties. These operations I'm worried about because of the rich interest. That's because 10 out of 28 care places on pediatric surgery are open while 1,700 children line up for surgery. As I said, the NKS has a rich mission for child surgery of various kinds. This also affects the structure of Sweden. It is also about the chosen model of value-based care. It is a model of national interest because value-based care has been tested in, for example, Sahlgrenska. You need to dive deeper into this so that you don't spread a model in healthcare that is destructive. My final question is this: at what point does the Minister think that the state must intervene to save a hospital whose structure causes patients to suffer harm?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-450	Mr President, I would like to There are two initiatives taken by the government that are relevant to repeat. In view of these, it is also relevant to say that the government may return. One is about the assignment that went to the Swedish Agency for Medical and Social Evaluation, SBU, about the compilation of knowledge about value-based care. There it was obvious that the research was limited, and what was more, it was not infrequently flawed. The second is about the investigation mission concerning OPS solutions, precisely because we are not used to OPS solutions. We do not have many examples, but there is really only this example. It is important that we ensure that the entire resources of county councils and regions that go to health care are used in the best possible way. It is also important to have the courage to make the investments to be made and to feel that you can control the costs for which you have budgeted. These are two really important parts. Karin Rågsjö asked me a question at the end that I don't really remember. Let me say, however, that it is important and urgent for us to take care of the needs of the patient to be something that we have with us in all the decisions we make and that we thereby have guidelines and ensure that care has this focus. There are obvious shortcomings, and I assume that the politicians in the Stockholm region will not let this go, but will continue with their dialogue and with their scrutiny.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-456	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me how I and the government can ensure that the electricity market hubs will not be able to be used by foreign powers in order to map our electricity grids for destructive purposes. The establishment of an electricity market hub is important, including as it can create better conditions for demand response, facilitate new market entrants and, overall, increase competition in the electricity market. In June 2015, S venska power network was commissioned by the government to develop and operate an electricity market hub. This work is currently under way, and Svenska Kraftnät places a great deal of focus on security issues in the work. The Safety Act applies to operators who to some extent conduct activities that are of importance to Sweden's safety. Security protection refers to protection against espionage, sabotage, terrorist offences and other offences that may threaten the operation, as well as protection in other cases of classified information. The person carrying out activities subject to the law shall investigate the need for security protection in a security analysis. Based on the analysis, the operator shall plan and take the necessary security measures taking into account the nature and extent of the activity, the presence of classified information and other circumstances. These may include security measures aimed at protecting information systems used in security sensitive activities. I assume that Svenska Kraftnät has done and does what is incumbent on the authority in accordance with current legislation. The Swedish Energy Market Authority has, on behalf of the Government, produced proposals for necessary constitutional changes to introduce the electricity market hub. The proposal has been referred to and is currently under discussion within the Government Office. Security issues are high on the government's agenda and will of course be given great importance in the work on future constitutional changes.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-462	Mr President, I would like to In 2015, the Government commissioned the Swedish power network to develop and operate a central information management model – the one called a service hub – on the Swedish electricity market. The mission included paying particular attention to security and integrity risks. The Government then presented the proposal for the orientation of energy policy. There were proposals for developing the electricity market at national level. The aim was to make it easier for consumers, including through the establishment of an electricity market hub to manage measurement data and through an electricity trader's cent risk model where the electricity trading company becomes the central party on the market. Now we come to what is sensitive in this context. To collect more than 4 1⁄2 million customers' network data and facility information in the same location, there must be really high demands on the security management of this data. This has been warned by a number of bodies, while considering that further safety investigations must be carried out before the model is put into effect. For example, the Swedish Armed Forces consider the analysis of data protection related to the total defence to be inadequate. Mr President, I would like to The electricity grid is essential for our society to function at all. In the event of a power failure, almost all social functions are paralyzed. It is not much more than a week ago that there was massive power outage in Uruguay and Argentina. A total of nearly 50 million people were in one day without electricity. If this should affect Sweden, northern Europe, the whole of Europe or larger parts of the world, we can talk about real security risks. Basic to society's emergency preparedness must therefore be to ensure a high level of safety in the electricity grids. According to the Head of Must, a mapping of IT systems related to electricity supply is currently underway, and information on electricity grids is seen as very valuable for potential attackers. Nevertheless, the government goes on to collect more than 4 1⁄2 million customers' network data and plant information in the same place. The Swedish Transport Agency and the scandal that has been within the Swedish power grid should have been lessons in this context. Mr President, I would like to The answer I have received from the Minister – which is, of course, appropriate in this context, both Minister for Energy and Digitalisation, because these are things that relate to both of these areas – is essentially identical to the answer to the written question I asked last winter. But I couldn't figure out what the difference in the answers is. The Minister replies that the establishment of an electricity market hub is important, including in order to create better conditions for demand response and facilitate new market entrants. Yes, but should this be at the cost of security? That the Minister assumes that the Swedish power grid does what should come of them is actually to leave the overall safety assessment to an authority. The government's responsibility must be to make sure that Sweden's security works. With all due respect for Axel Oxenstierna's community building, it is not this authority that should determine Sweden's safety. Mr President, I would like to When the heaviest security actors sound the alarm, the government should react to this. I therefore wonder why the Government believes that the electricity market hub will not be able to be used by foreign powers in order to map our electricity grids.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-472	Mr President, I would like to Let us begin by stating, on behalf of the Minutes alone, that the electricity market hub was an initiative of the bourgeois alliance government in 2009 and that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish parliament, so that there is no doubt about it. The second point we need to make is that no new information will be collected in an electricity market hub, but all the information gathered there is information collected today. The third point we need to make is that the electricity market hub has no connection to the operation of the electricity system when the two are connected. The fourth thing that we need to establish for the sake of order is that neither Uruguay nor Argentina have a hub for the electricity market. If they had, they might have had a better order on their electricity market system. Mr Rothenberg says that this is about the same answer as he had earlier. Yes, of course. Preparation is ongoing, and it is the government that has sent out the proposal for a referral to the Swedish Armed Forces to get the Swedish Armed Forces' views on it. Then it is reasonable that there is the right time to incorporate the views of both the Swedish Armed Forces and other consultation bodies. Sending in referrals is hardly an alarm, as Mr Rothenberg expresses.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-477	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. Yes, it is true that this was an initiative taken about ten years ago. It was a good initiative. And it is not the initiative that I am critical of at all, but the management of the safety aspects of this initiative. It is good that it has been and is political unity. The service market hub may be good, but I and many people with me do not feel that the government has so far taken the security issues that go with it seriously. Perhaps the reason for the blackout in Uruguay and Argentina, in half South America, was not that they did not have an electricity market hub. That connection cannot be made, even if you are otherwise rhetorically very skilled. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the electricity merchant model and whether the consumer should have contact with and receive the invoice from the electricity grid companies or have the electricity trading companies as the main contact is not my entry into this issue. Instead, I am concerned about the risks and safety aspects of collecting 4 1⁄2 million customers' network data and construction information. That is what I want answers to: how does the government view dealing with these risks? Regardless of which government took the initiative, any government would set the highest priority to eliminate the security risks and ensure that this will not be a problem for Sweden. It is the responsibility of the Minister and the Government. It is interesting to follow the state actors who have so far said that there are very large risks. The Swedish Armed Forces points out in their referrals the risks of collecting everything in one place. This gives a detailed picture of the Swedish electricity grid structure, which can enable the identification of vulnerabilities and deficiencies in the Swedish electricity grid. The analysis of the protection of data relating to total defence is very inadequate. This is what the Armed Forces say. The Fortifications Agency states that the safety aspects of the vast amount of information handled in the hub are not taken into account. This is something that the government must take into account. And I would be glad if I could have answers in this debate. It does not concern so much right or left, whether it is bad or good economy and who did so or so five years ago, but it concerns the security of Sweden, Sweden's citizens, Sweden's residents and Sweden's actors, such as companies. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Energy Agency lacks an impact assessment based on information security, cyber security and security perspectives. My question to the Minister is: will such a thing be done? Will such a proposal be taken into account once it is submitted? The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that there is a lack of analysis of the compatibility of the proposal with GDPR, and there is no clear explanation of how this balance has been achieved and in further analysis of the integrity risks that may arise when the processing of personal data on the electricity market is centrally collected in a hub. As former Minister of the Interior, the Minister knows that the role of the electricity grid is significant for Swedish security. The Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Power Network are critical. If the Swedish Armed Forces believe that the analysis made on the protection of data relating to total defence is inadequate, I wonder how the Minister for Energy can ensure that the electricity market hub will not be used by foreign powers in order to map our electricity grids for evil purposes.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-489	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg asks two fundamental questions: will we take account of the criticisms of the consultative bodies? Will we ensure that the forthcoming proposal is drawn up in accordance with the GDPR? On both of these questions I can easily answer: Yes, we will. We take security issues very seriously. I would also like to take this opportunity to emphasise that no new data will be collected, but all the data planned for the electricity market hub is already being collected today. The crucial thing is how good the security level is, not if there are one, ten or one hundred different locations of information. It would probably be possible to argue, as Mr Rothenberg does, because it is bad to collect the information. However, I note that there is a huge risk of having the information spread to 190 different principals, each of whom should be responsible for security. It is not certain that an individual municipality will have a better opportunity for security work than a state authority that has the Swedish Armed Forces and other resources at its disposal. I hope for continued good cooperation with the opposition on these issues. As Mr Rothenberg puts it, it is not a partisan view. Both we and the opposition are keen to have an electricity market hub in place and to keep it at the very highest level of safety – in line with the referrals made by our authorities.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-492	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the clarification. We'll take that with us and follow it up. Collecting customer data in one place, centralising data, increases the risk. The world does not really look like it did in 2009 when this initiative was taken. Today we see other threats. Today, there are quite other cyber-warring techniques, which do not create bloodshed but a spill of information. Many consultation bodies consider that national security objects and aspects of national security are not analysed. I very much hope that the government will take this into account, analyse it and put forward a proposal that will simplify the exchange of data between market players. In this context, however, the government should not play business developers. Much can be done with technology other than a single service hub. You can have smart meters. It can be solved by a technology that is completely different from that which existed at the time of this initiative in 2009. Mr President, I would like to Work continues – but so far without an analysis that could influence the design of reform and solution. As I said, the threat has changed considerably over the long time that has passed. The implications for national security must be thoroughly investigated before this model can be introduced. We're at the stage before the government has submitted its bill. I am raising the issue now so that we will not come once it is on the table of Parliament to be dealt with in a report and then to be debated in plenary. Then it may be too late. So consider this a kind reminder of putting forward a good proposal, Minister. I wish the Minister and the whole government a lovely and safe summer, regardless of whether the power runs or not.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-499	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by returning Mr Rothenberg's summer greeting – although I believe that summer leave will be somewhat limited if Hans Rothenberg's prophecy comes true. However, I welcome the fact that the opposition is using its power of control to point out the need for a high level of safety as we move forward with the electricity market hub. I hope that the doubts about the electricity market hub as expressed in Mr Rothenberg's last speech are not representative of the Moderates as a whole, but that the decision taken in 2009 by the Alliance Government can become a reality after we have listened to the consultation bodies. It will give customers cheaper and more efficient electricity supply – something that the whole of Sweden is valet of. Once again, I wish Mr President and Mr Rothenberg a hearty and pleasant summer.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-502	Mr President, I would like to Gudrun Brunegård has asked me whether I and the government have any objective or responsibility regarding the importance of infrastructure investments in order to provide equal conditions for growth and competition to the various parts of the kingdom. For the government, it is important that the whole of Sweden is given good opportunities to grow and develop. A starting point for the development of national transport infrastructure is, of course, the overall transport policy objective that transport infrastructure should contribute to a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. The Government made a decision on a national transport infrastructure plan for the years 2018 – 2029. It is a total investment of SEK 700 billion. It is also the largest railway investment in modern times. The decision also includes significant investments in shipping and road transport. The national plan therefore includes major efforts throughout the country in both new construction and renovation and modernisation of existing infrastructure. This is possible when the government invests SEK 100 billion more than in the last planning period. In view of the decision on the national plan, the government has received comments from sectors and regions, for example, and has weighed up what are regionally important priorities with the national priorities and the government's objectives.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-506	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, I am not entirely satisfied with that. The Minister for Infrastructure describes in rather vague formulations a distribution process that is more based on consultation between parties who have already talked together than on an objective assessment based on the county's own needs description of what support is needed to release its own inherent development power. The Government's reasoning preserves a system in which counties that are already benefiting from cross-border government funded main roads and European roads receive many times more resources than a county that is more remote and on which other counties are not dependent. The government has expressed ambitions to make efforts to ensure that the whole country lives, which is good. But does it mean that the whole country will have a level playing field to live, flourish and develop, or is it just a matter of barely surviving and keeping its nose above the surface of the water? There are limits to how much a region with low tax power, such as Kalmar County, can finance itself with the regional tax funds. Most of these are going to health care. The state infrastructure is absolutely necessary, but it is only enough for short-distance dumping. Kalmar County is one of Sweden's foremost visitor counties with a number of the country's strongest site brands, such as Kalmar, Öland and my own hometown of Vimmerby with Astrid Lindgren's World. There is even a private stop where trains stop in summer, to the joy of families with children. But the train is so shaky that you can barely keep Pippi's book and let alone read it to keep the children in a good mood even after a long day full of experiences. This is also a concern for those who want to study or work on the train on their way to Kalmar or Linköping. Some distances are so bad that the train crawls forward. This means that the journey takes longer than would have been necessary and what is deemed reasonable for commuting. Without enough meeting places on the Linköping route – Kalmar becomes a train in one direction standing long moments to wait for oncoming trains. It also extends travel time, of course. At a time when more and more people are being inspired by a driving force to travel environmentally friendly, there is a great interest in optimizing existing connections. It is then frustrating not to receive the necessary support from the state. Hence my questions and this interpellation. Kalmar County has the lowest allocation per inhabitant throughout the country in the current national transport plan, only SEK 2 765 per inhabitant. It should be compared with SEK 15 247 per inhabitant, i.e. almost five times as much, in Kronoberg, which is smaller in terms of area and population and is also crossed by both the Södra Stambanan and a well-developed European road and therefore does not have to spend money on it. Mr President, I would like to Is it the view of the Minister for Infrastructure that this inequality should persist? Does the state not have overall responsibility for the whole? Is it not high time that the government took responsibility and corrected the sins and omissions of old in the work on the coming plan?
i-4rwogGPMvQtyVpoRnnmSQC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for the commitment! Given the few resources spent on infrastructure during the time when Gudrun Brunegård's party was responsible and was in government position, there is a considerable difference now. When you had the government power, 100 billion less was spent, it was less regional distribution and it was a larger municipal co-financing. We spend 100 billion more on investments throughout the country. It is not true that this preserves an existing structure. We have Norrbotniabanan, Malmbanan and the South East Link, for us who are small-timers. We can go down to Blekinge and see the big and important investment on the South East Link, from Älmhult via Olofström down to Karlshamn, or the E22 down in Blekinge. This is an important effort to ensure that Blekinge County has better infrastructure conditions, for this has not been given before. It is clear that the EUR 100 billion more has enabled us to make significantly better investments throughout the country than was possible when we had a government that prioritised tax cuts before infrastructure investments. It is therefore important that we maintain the capacity to secure infrastructure throughout the country. For me, it was important to anchor this regionally. Kalmar County I know well; I have travelled a lot there. As I live in Småland myself, I have been on Öland and throughout Kalmar County and understand the challenges of regionally finding the right priorities. Stångådalsbanan is of course important, but the enthusiasm may not have been as strong from Östergötlandshåll. The coast-to-coast track is an important route, not least if we get new main tracks. The Öland Bridge, which now sails up as an object that we certainly spend great resources on renovating, points forward to attention at future priorities in the region. I think it is good that there is a discussion in Kalmar County about what the main priorities are. I also think it is good that Gudrun Brunegård, within his own party, is discussing what resources they are prepared to make available. When they had government power, they spent SEK 100 billion less on infrastructure, and when we put forward the proposal for a national plan, Gudrun Brunegård's party had no more resources at its disposal. Basically, one should conserve the resources one has and make the right priorities. For me, it has been important not to end up in a situation where municipalities such as Vimmerby, Kalmar or Västervik have to stand with increased municipal co-financing to bring about what is important national affairs. That's how I see it. An investment in the South-East Link, Norrbotnia Line, Coast-to-Coast Line or E22 are not just regional investments, but are national investments. That is why this balance and priority is incredibly important, and we are doing a better regional distribution than we have done in the past. It is reduced municipal co-financing and more resources than before. I'm proud of that. It's important. What is important for future planning periods is that in each region – in each county but also in the larger regions – a discussion is held on what the long-term priorities are. This is to be done in Kalmar, Kronoberg and Blekinge, to keep us to our part of Sweden, but of course also in other parts, to meet the climate challenge. It is true that more people want to travel by train, and this means that we may have an even greater share of investment in rail infrastructure in the future, but also in ports, because shipping needs to be developed, and in fairway depths. This is a highly topical issue, not least in Kalmar County. If we are to strengthen maritime transport to bring more goods to it, it is important to review the port infrastructure. I hope that we will have good and long discussions about the infrastructure investment and that Gudrun Brunegård will get his own party to spend more money on infrastructure in the future.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-526	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer so far. If we are going to go back in time and look at old sins, I want to remember that it was a former S-government that pulled down a lot and that a build-up began during the Alliance. There are great needs. Regardless of this, it is important that we now look forward and that the upcoming national transport plan gives a slightly larger share of the cake to a for decades-deprived county such as Kalmar. I respect the fact that there are great needs throughout the country. I noticed this not least yesterday when my train to Linköping was delayed with 15 minutes, which was then built on with another half an hour before I reached Stockholm. There are many of us who automatically estimate that there will be so much delay that we take a previous train to be safely there the time we need. There really is a need for investments across the country, but my point is that the state should take greater overall responsibility and not just listen to what surrounding counties think. In that case, Kalmar County will continue to be in ironing class. As the Government itself suggested, there is no huge interest among the county residents either in Kronoberg or in Östergötland. They don't really see the need. Kalmar County usually comes last in the award, and if a need arises during the term of office or during the transport planning period, it will be easy so that it is from Kalmar County that money is removed. This was the case, for example, when there was a crisis in West Sweden and there was a need to redistribute. The railway connections from Kalmar to Linköping have such a need that the region itself has put several million people into East Gothenburg territory to repair parts of the track, where it might otherwise have had to cancel the connections. If the pull aid from neighbouring counties is so small, it is reasonable that the government has a helicopter perspective and ensures that there is a slightly more even distribution of resources. Mr President, I would like to I am a born optimist, and I hope that the Minister for Infrastructure, given our common Småland connections and interests, is prepared to support the neighbouring country a little more in the further process than so far. To Kalmar County everyone wants to go on vacation, whether it be a visit to Astrid Lindgren's World, the Kingdom of Crystal, the Vis Festival or a lovely sunbathing and bathing on Öland, where you may even meet the royal family, who also have to get there in one way or another. With this, I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure in advance. I wish both the Minister and the President a pleasant summer.
i-AmZhELoWj6x3Xmf49uoJ5E	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård! I really hope that we will jointly look at all the opportunities to develop the infrastructure, whether it is to Astrid Lindgren's World, which I have visited several times, to fantastically beautiful Öland, to Kalmar, which has grown incredibly as a tourist city, to Västervik or to Oskarshamn. The list of fantastic tourist destinations is long. More infrastructure efforts must be made in both Kalmar and the rest of the country in order for the labour market region to function, in order for road safety to increase and for us to be able to transfer more goods to rail or shipping in the future. Basically, this is one of the reasons why we now added SEK 100 billion more in the national plan. It is important that we see the need to make long-term investments. In the future, there will be a discussion about new main courses. There too, the absence of investment would create major concerns in the Swedish rail system. It is therefore important that we create space to dare to make large and important investments in infrastructure in the future. I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise what Gudrun Brunegård himself said, that the infrastructure investments made in other parts of the country can actually bring great regional benefits. If you ride trains from the south today, you'll be met by the hornet waist being suspended. It is the small part of the railway system in Stockholm where there is a train almost every minute or every two minutes. It is now shut down during the summer so that proper renovation work will be done. It is clear that on paper it looks like a big investment in Stockholm, but it is an investment that benefits the whole of Sweden. The entire Swedish rail system will work better if the hornet waist works better. The same is true of four tracks between Uppsala and Stockholm and with other infrastructure investments. Our infrastructure is linked, and it is therefore important to see the national benefits. It is my perspective and that of the government, although we also take very much account of regional priorities. I note that it looks like we agree that more resources are needed for infrastructure. I would like to conclude by hoping that Gudrun Brunegård will have his own party of the Christian Democrats. So far it has been a little bit so and so with this turnout, because during their own reign they chose not to provide as much resources. I think it's important. I believe that Sweden needs to invest in order to be able to cope with competitiveness but also in order to be able to meet the climate goals in the future. I would also like to take the opportunity to wish Gudrun Brunegård a pleasant summer, whether she spends it in beautiful Vimmerby or in other parts of the country. I hope that we will continue to have a good dialogue about infrastructure investments both in Kalmar County and in the nation.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-541	Madam President, I would like I thank Tomas Eneroth for this. It is a very important connection that we have an infrastructure network, whether it be railways or highways, so that the business community can flourish. There we have great needs in Kalmar County. Companies, residents and visitors need it to get fast, comfortable and environmentally friendly transport. It is therefore important that we make the necessary changes. Getingmidjan is of course very important and benefits the whole of Sweden, both south and north of Stockholm. However, it is doubtful what use Vimmerbybor, Kalmar residents or islanders had of the fact that once when there was a crisis, infrastructure funds were taken from Kalmar County and placed in western Sweden around Vänersborg and Trollhättan. This is a small wound that still exists in the county dwellers. Now that there is talk of the importance of further transportation out of the county, I would like to take the opportunity to ask about the connection to an upcoming main track or high-speed track in Linköping. I have asked a written question about it in the past, but I did not feel that I was getting a sharp answer. It is incredibly important that there is a link from rail to rail and that one can walk between the platforms and not, as it now looks in the sketches, that one should be forced to take the bus one kilometer from the travel centre in Linköping to an upcoming high-speed railway station. I look forward to an answer to this.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-544	Madam President, I would like I thank Gudrun Brunegård for this. With regard to the redistribution of resources, which Gudrun Brunegård highlighted, I know that a previous government made a re-prioritization in order to be able to make investments in West Sweden. I think it was good. It was an important part of Swedish industrial capacity. It was important to make investments there. Similarly, on other occasions we have actually been able to transfer additional resources not least to Kalmar in connection with the restructuring of the automotive industry in Kalmar County. Sometimes we in the nation have chosen to redistribute resources in solidarity to support regions that are vulnerable. I think it is a good quality for Sweden that we actually see this opportunity. Then it was very important for West Sweden. Then, of course, it is easier to prioritize when you have SEK 100 billion more. That is why it is basically a resource issue. The need for infrastructure investment in Sweden far exceeds the resources available. That's how it is, and that's how it's always been. In every region and every part of the country, you want more infrastructure. This is good, because infrastructure – railways, roads, ports and shipping – ties hopes, expectations and longings, and there is a clear need to enlarge the labour market region, to move in or to strengthen the tourism industry. Then it is up to us who are politically active to set clear priorities and to argue for what is the most effective socio-economically and what is perhaps also the smartest way from the climate point of view. Let's do that. In the national plan that exists, we are making the biggest rail investment in modern times – 100 billion more and also reduced municipal co-financing. Thus, municipalities' money can increasingly go to care for the elderly, health care and childcare rather than to infrastructure, where the government should in fact be primarily responsible. That will be my priority in the future. In the case of connecting routes to new main routes, not least the Coast-to-Coast track may be of crucial importance for the region. There, Trafikverket has a mission to return with a planned decision just in time for the next national plan.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-548	Madam President, I would like Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström has asked me how and when I will come up with a clear mission to the Swedish Space Agency, and how and when I will ensure that Sweden gets a modern and updated space team. I assume, although it is not clear, that on the first question on the mandate to the National Board of Space, Mrs Sandström refers to the directive on how the agency should work in the future, which she refers to in the interpellation text. Work is under way to implement the national space strategy decided by the Government in May 2018 and endorsed by the Riksdag in November of the same year. One of the measures recommended in the strategy is the development of Esrange. The government decided last year to finance, as a step, a test bed at Esrange where space technology can be tested and demonstrated. Construction is already underway, and there will be promising collaboration and business opportunities with this test bed. Furthermore, the Government has taken a first step to strengthen the collaboration between the Swedish Space Agency and the other research funding authorities by deciding that the Swedish Space Agency will be part of the collaboration council that has been established since before. Within the framework of its instruction, the Swedish National Space Agency has great opportunities to implement actions based on what the Government recommends in the space strategy. In addition, if mandates to the Space Board are needed on specific issues, the government will take a position on this during the ongoing work to implement the space strategy step by step. However, it is worth noting that, following collaboration with many stakeholders, both public and private, the Swedish Space Agency presented its own long-term strategy for its work with Swedish space activities at the beginning of 2019. The Authority's strategy is partly based on what the Government has stated in the national strategy. With regard to Mr Sandström's second question, I would like to point out that the government's policy is based on a substantive agreement, the January agreement, which has been concluded between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. This agreement is, of course, a top priority and has led to the immediate opening of several investigations. This means that certain investigations which do not directly correspond to any point in the agreement will be set up later. It is still a very urgent step to review the Space Act with a view to modernising it. I intend to return when an investigation can be set up for this purpose.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-556	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Higher Education, Matilda Ernkrans, for the answers. I was going to move a little higher up in the air and not just have a helicopter perspective but also a space perspective. As Matilda Ernkrans stressed, my questions are about a clear mission to the Space Board regarding the new space strategy and how and when we will have a modernisation of our space team. Why am I addressing these issues? I do this because I am worried about Sweden's role as a space nation. We're falling behind, we're being run over and we're being run over. The next question is about Sweden's space team, which dates from 1982. So it's 37 years old. It needs to be modernised to follow the strong developments in this high-tech field. Sweden's space strategy, adopted by the Riksdag in autumn 2018, states: An investment in space is ultimately an investment on earth. I think that's a pretty important and nice sentence. It's very important. It is further recognised that the space sector is a knowledge-intensive and innovative activity that aims to meet the challenges we face through new solutions. The work creates more jobs, and our community building can take further steps forward. The aerospace industry currently employs around 7 000 people directly and 9 000 people indirectly. So it is a big and important employer. It is also positive that more and more women have joined the industry. Madam President, I would like What important areas of space research should I stress in particular? This applies first to the climate challenges. Space technology helps us to understand them and also to meet them. You can, for example, follow ocean currents and thus facilitate the navigation of fishing boats and also reduce energy consumption. You can follow algal blooms, forest fires and changes in the atmosphere. This is happening, for example, in the so-called Copernikus programme, which is a very important programme for monitoring climate change. There is also something called positioning services. It is an ever-increasing market all over the world. I think there are quite a few of us here who wouldn't have made it without Google Maps. It's based entirely on satellite space data. As a new person in Stockholm last fall, I got lost many times, but thanks to Google Maps I haven't got lost as many times. I think this is something that will be very much needed. So it's a space-based mobile app. There are many other space-based apps to find, for example, your mobile phone, your child or the best weather. They are important and almost indispensable to us. We also have technology development in the automotive industry and research in medical development. One could say that the limit of what space can contribute is far from reached. Sweden and the Swedish space industry now have a strong position internationally. It is a position that we absolutely want to maintain. Through previous long-term efforts both nationally and within the European Space Agency (Esa), the state and companies have managed to establish strong positions within the European programmes. This has made it possible to create competitive and very well-known products that come from Sweden. Madam President, I would like Last week I was at a big and exciting space conference in Paris. It was very clear that France is investing heavily in space. For example, we saw a prototype of a satellite called Mats, which will probably be launched next year. This is a big investment, and the satellite is actually partly made in Gothenburg. I was there in April and looked at it. It was a staggering thought: In April I was looking at it in Gothenburg and now I got to see it at a large space conference in Paris with a hundred thousand participants. Sweden stands out, and I want us to continue to do so. It was also a joy to hear what a high reputation Sweden has in the industry. We have to keep it. We are a competitive space nation. As I said earlier, the limit of what space can contribute is far from reached. I have some concerns that I would like to put to the Minister now that we are discussing this. There is a great deal of urgency when it comes to strengthening the space budget. We have begun to look ahead and have begun work on the space strategy, but I think it is going far too slowly.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-571	Madam President and Prime Minister Matilda Ernkrans! I would like to continue where my colleague, Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström, left off. For the forthcoming ministerial meeting in Esa, I wonder what position the Swedish government will have. Today there is uncertainty as to whether Sweden will be able to participate fully in future cooperation. Today, according to the information I have received, we are not part of the programming process. Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström was into positioning data, and this is very important for future development. For example, I have seen how gps can be used to water individual plants on a large field. You can also take in data that shows if in a certain part of the field it is drier than in other parts. In this way you can calculate the water consumption and optimise the earth's resources to make it as good as possible. This is just a small part of it all. My question mainly concerns, as I said, how Matilda Ernkrans sees Sweden's future in space cooperation and Esa.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-574	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to say that it is of course gratifying that several parties in the Swedish Parliament are involved in the issue of Sweden as a space nation and also want to strengthen the country as a space nation. It would be even better if the same parties – here it is the representatives of the Moderates and the Christian Democrats – also prioritised this in their budgets, perhaps over massive tax cuts. Space is a common resource that all countries have the right to use for peaceful purposes. The foundation of Swedish and international space activities is becoming increasingly important when space becomes available to more and more people. Space should be used for social benefit and not become a place where weapons can be deployed or where a breeding ground for conflict arises. Sweden is not a large country, but it is a large space country. Already 50 years ago, the first rocket was launched from Esrange. The reason we're an important space nation is because we're good at innovation. We are also good at collaboration between college, research and business. We know that we have much to gain from developing space work, not least from an environmental point of view, as has also been mentioned here. The government wants Sweden's role as a space nation to be developed. This is also why the government developed a national space strategy and presented it in the Swedish parliament, which has supported it. The space strategy is now being implemented by those concerned. This applies both to the government and to the authorities. As I said earlier, this includes the continued development of Esrange and the construction of a test bed there. Esrange is well placed to develop into a resource not only for Sweden but for the whole of Europe. As I also mentioned earlier, we have changed the instruction to the Space Board. One can now be part of the collaboration council that exists between research-funded authorities. In addition, a number of other actions are ongoing between different authorities. Such things can be started on their own. The strategy must be followed up and this must be reported back to the Riksdag. It will be an important opportunity to debate and make decisions. More parties can present their ambitions in this area. As I said, I am pleased that many parties have joined forces behind the space strategy and that we will continue to try to develop Sweden as a strong space nation. We know that our efforts in space are important, not least to make life on earth a little easier and better. We receive a wealth of data from space, and we have developed a variety of space-generated data systems with innovative services that contribute to societal benefits, growth and welfare. All this we need to build a strong society. I and the government are very keen to continue their strong commitment to Sweden as a space nation. We have already demonstrated this in the past and are also prepared to have such a commitment in the future. I look forward with excitement to the postponement of the satellite Mats, mentioned in one of the speeches. If more parties are really involved in this, it would be interesting to know what initiatives the Moderates and Christian Democrats have put forward or are prepared to present in the Riksdag so that we can get a greater and better turnout so that Sweden can become a stronger space nation.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-583	Madam President, I would like As Minister Ernkrans says, this is an area that engages a great many people. The Moderates are very concerned. Although the Minister points out that efforts are being made, they are not large enough. My colleague Gudrun Brunegård pointed out that space ministers will meet in November of this year. It will then establish a space programme that will run for about three years. Here Sweden feels like an insecure party. The Swedish economy is thought to be too bad. We no longer seem to be anyone to count on. Sweden is thus in danger of missing large space programmes that could have come here. This would, of course, have a major impact on Sweden's space industry. There is therefore a great deal of concern. It is not long before the meeting is held in November. Even now it can be seen that this, unfortunately, will mean that part of the space industry may be moving out of the country. The Government of Matilda Ernkrans mentioned the National Space Board. It has made a long-term strategy but is still very worried. In addition to making the strategy, the Government has also been written in the following ways: ..................................................... It was thus the Space Board's response to the long-term strategy put forward. You realize this isn't gonna work. We want to see the development of Esrange, as the Minister pointed out. They also want to be able to see that they can launch satellites from Esrange. However, Madam President, this requires both resources and staff that do not exist today. In connection with the 2017 Research Bill, we in the Moderates replied that we wanted to invest another 30 million in space research. Furthermore, the Moderates' proposal in 2019 was to invest an additional 5 million more than the government in the space budget. So the Moderates have suggestions. The Moderates are worried and want results. The next question is about the Space Act. Minister Ernkrans answers that this is a matter of urgency but not a priority, which I think is a rather contradictory statement. The law dates from 1982, 37 years old, and needs to be modernised. This is happening more or less throughout Europe now. You make new space laws or you modernise the old ones. It is important to have a space team in order to be able to demonstrate the clarity and long-termness of space research and development. These are often very long lead times in the space world. It can take up to 20 years to complete a project. It is important to have a long-term perspective, so that the industry too dares to invest in space research. My questions to the Minister are: How can the question be unpriority when it was decided as late as autumn 2018 that this would be part of the space strategy? It is considered to be an urgent issue, but it is still unpriority. When does the Minister think it might be possible to revise and modernise the Space Act?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-590	Madam President, I would like Let's start with the Space Act. It is pointed out in the space strategy that the government and parliament have assumed that we need to modernise the Space Act. I reply very clearly that we have given priority to other investigations. This is a direct consequence of the new cooperation in the middle that exists between social democrats, center parties, liberals and the Green Party. It is a very important collaboration in the middle that keeps the right-wing forces away from Swedish politics and allows us to focus common forces on solving issues that are important in people's everyday lives here and now. I also reply that this means that I will come back to Parliament on what we can do later in this parliamentary term, for example, to review the Space Act. It's still a priority. Let's remember that this law dates back to the 1980s. Not least Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström's own party was in government for eight years, but during the eight years did not even endeavour to set up an investigation or take any initiative to modernise the Space Act. Perhaps we can have a little humility in view of the fact that this government still considers this to be a priority. I'll get back to you when I have the opportunity to present this investigation. We could not do so in the first few months of this government's time. There were other important things that we needed to do, such as improving the means of study for those who want to study higher up in their ages. We do this in order to have better skills supply and a better life-long learning in Sweden. That is an important priority for this government and the cooperation that we have in the middle. I can also say that it is good that several parties are involved in Swedish space policy and in Swedish space budget. But it would have been much easier to prioritise this important area if M and KD had not tied up with SD this Parliament and this government to quite large and massive tax cuts. I would argue that this money could have done better for Swedish innovations and Swedish jobs, for example by having been able to invest them in the Swedish Space Board. Now my ambition is to continue developing Sweden as a space nation. The Prime Minister, together with his counterpart in France, President Macron, has said that we want continued cooperation between France and Sweden in the field of space technology. It's important and good. We need it in place. Space is infinite and has infinite space for dreams, visions and plans, but sometimes these too have to face reality. We are really trying, for example, to meet the needs of research for observatories, both on earth and in space, and we are doing so through cooperation with other countries. But it is clear that the high costs make it necessary for us to cooperate with other countries and share the costs. That's also the answer – that's still the focus. It is also laid down in the space strategy. We shall be open to cooperation in this area too, and we intend to continue to be so. The great concern of the Moderates is good, and the engagement in space is good. However, the concern was clearly not enough to give priority to the space budget over major and massive tax cuts.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-595	Madam President, I would like Minister Matilda Ernkrans explained that the Moderates had not previously been interested in the space budget. But in 2014 an investigation was set up by us in the Alliance, including KD, which is represented in the debate. We wanted an investigation into a space strategy. It was part of the Space Act. I guess I'll just have to say that we took a very big initiative. It also became a space strategy, which was decided in November 2018. The Alliance contributed to a space strategy, including the Space Act. That we shouldn't have thought about it, I think it's a little wrong. It is true, however, that we have an agreement with France. When we were at the space conference in Paris a week ago, the Director General of the National Space Board, Anna Rathsman, met Macron and signed the agreement, which is very positive. France is a great space nation. I also want Sweden to continue to be a great space nation. When Minister Matilda Ernkrans says that it is investing in other important things, I am a little surprised, because throughout the debate we have talked about how much space does for humanity, for the little man, for everyday life and for the environment. I hope that this debate has raised interest and that we understand how important this is, so that we can invest more resources in climate research and other environmental work and in technology development in many areas in order to increase the number of jobs in Sweden. As more women become interested in science, gender equality also increases. So these are space issues, which I think are very important. I also hope that this debate can speed up the process of modernising our space team in order to be able to have clearer rules and to strengthen the possibility of getting funding from industry. I hope that Sweden will be able to maintain its position as a successful space nation that is to be reckoned with. I don't want us to get lost. I thank Minister Ernkrans for the discussion. I hope that we will continue; I think we will. There's still some work to be done. I would also like to wish everyone present and the Minister a nice summer. I guess quite a lot of people will be watching a weather app this summer, and of course it's space-based.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-600	Madam President, I would like It took the moderate-led government over eight years to identify and conclude that there needed to be an investigation into a review of the Space Act. In view of this pace and commitment, I am nevertheless pleased that a representative of the Moderates is highlighting the commitment to space, now that the new government, which is a social democratic and environmental partisan in substantive cooperation with the Centre Party and the Liberals, has only been sitting for a few months. I hope that this commitment lasts and that we can find good cooperation in the future for Sweden as a space nation, because that is very important. We need to have good cooperation when it comes to Sweden as a space nation. But as I said, it is also a matter of putting something behind the words. The fact that it takes over eight years to identify the need for an investigation into the Space Act and that you cannot deliver on it during the eight years when you are in power does not inspire so much confidence. But we have hopes for the future. Space research and activities at the Space Board have been strengthened by 40 million during the previous and current term of office. This has, of course, given more opportunities to both dream and realize the societal efforts we make on space here on earth. It is important, and I think we should continue to engage in this. Having said that, I would like to thank the honourable Member for the debate and wish the President, Members and officials a really good, warm and pleasant summer.
i-JzfkLfo3mfcKVoWu8xmeiM	Madam President, I would like At the end of last week, EU leaders met in Brussels. The meeting began on Thursday afternoon with discussions on the EU's strategic agenda, the EU's long-term budget, the climate issue, combating misinformation and hybrid threats, EU external relations and other issues. The fact that the EU is now entering a new mandate left its mark on the meeting, and the dinner was devoted to a discussion on the appointment of high-level posts. On Midsummer Eve, a Euro Summit was held in which the non-EMU countries also participated, and we also received a brief update on the Brexit issue. Madam President, I would like The meeting began with a discussion and adoption of the EU strategic agenda for the 2019-2024 term of office. During this process, we have been very keen that the European Council should land right in this work. Many of our societal problems can only be solved through cooperation in the EU, and then the focus must be on meeting the challenges of today's Europe together. Overall, the government has heard the Swedish priorities. We must safeguard respect for the rule of law and democracy, as well as equality and equality. The internal market is to be developed, which is important for jobs and welfare in Sweden. The climate issue and the green transition, as well as migration and security, were also raised. Madam President, I would like We then discussed work on the EU's long-term budget. As I mentioned to Parliament's European Council last week, Sweden, as well as a wide range of Member States, believes that the Romanian Presidency's negotiating document is not up to date. We see a risk of spending increasing and the money being spent on the wrong things. At the meeting, the incoming Finnish Presidency was tasked with taking stock and developing the negotiating document. If, during the Finnish Presidency, we can also digitise the document, the negotiations can enter the next phase. It is important that the negotiations proceed, but we should not commit ourselves to a specific date. The most important thing is still the quality of the final result. Madam President, I would like The debate on the EU's commitment under the Paris Agreement for the New York Climate Summit on 23 September showed that 24 out of 28 countries support the objective of achieving net zero emissions by 2050. So we were a large majority arguing in favour of an ambitious message for the New York Summit. This is reflected in the document, but unfortunately it was not possible to get the commitment into the text of the conclusion. A few countries opposed to entering a year for net zero emissions and wanted to buy more time. Nevertheless, we have come a long way in this work in recent months. It was not so long ago that there were considerably fewer Member States in the ambitious group. It is also positive that the 1.5-degree target should be repeated. There is also agreement to work towards increasing global climate finance and, not least, an ambitious replenishment of the Green Climate Fund. We also agreed that the EU will send a long-term climate strategy to the UN early in 2020. The European Council shall return to this before the end of the year. Although we did not reach all the way in the conclusions, I believe that we can come to the UN Secretary-General's summit in September with a strong message from the European Union that we are serious about achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The EU is now and will continue to be at the forefront of global climate action. Madam President, I would like We also agreed on continued work against misinformation and hybrid and cyber threats. It is important that we can show that the EU has a robust resistance to these threats. In addition, we also dealt with a number of issues concerning our external relations, including the strategic partnership with our eastern neighbours, the EU's strategic partnership with Africa and the relationship between the EU and Morocco. As usual, it was a discussion of Russia's actions in Ukraine, and we were able to agree to extend economic sanctions against Russia. The European Council was united in its criticism of Turkey's drilling for oil in the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus. Drills are an obvious provocation, and they must stop. Madam President, I would like Thursday and night were devoted to discussing the appointment of high-level posts. As I have previously informed the EU Board, the biggest stumbling block is the nomination of a candidate for President of the Commission. At the meeting, we noted that none of the candidates launched by the European parties as their so-called 'emergency candidates' currently have sufficient support. As Members know, the proposal for the President of the Commission must bring together a qualified majority in the European Council and also a majority in the European Parliament. At the same time, this is about finding a balance in the appointments of the other high-level posts, primarily the President of the European Council and the High Representative for Foreign Affairs, who will also serve as the first Vice-President of the Commission. For my part, I continue to emphasise the importance of finding the best candidates for these leading positions. For the Commission, we need a strong President with high competence and great integrity. We need to ensure a balanced gender balance, a good geographical balance and a balance between large and small Member States. The President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, is now going to carry out new probes, and we are going to meet again on Sunday 30 June for another attempt to sew this together. Madam President, I would like Friday's Euro Summit dealt with progress in deepening EMU and a specific budgetary instrument for the euro area. Finally, we had a debriefing on Brexit where we could briefly conclude that the situation in Britain with a forthcoming change of prime minister has further complicated the picture. We will definitely have reason to come back to this issue in October. This, Madam President, was the report back from the meeting.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-619	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Climate is one of the most important issues of our time. In Sweden, we have jointly agreed on one of the world's perhaps most ambitious climate targets, and we are at the forefront of climate work. But, as the Prime Minister also stated, we cannot face the climate threat alone, but we must cooperate with the rest of the world. Europe is our best opportunity to make a real difference. The European Union is so far an example in climate policy, but that is not something we can take for granted, but we must ensure that the European Union operates an effective climate policy that seriously lowers the Union's overall emissions. It is therefore, after all, worrying that the last European Council was a setback to the climate when it failed to agree that the EU should be climate neutral by 2050. In the run-up to the meeting, however, the government was hopeful of reaching an agreement, but hopes were dashed. As has been said, the conclusions do not mention the date. The issue will be further investigated, and the question of net zero emissions will be relegated to a footnote. My questions to the Prime Minister are therefore: what is the government's view on the future of reaching an agreement after all? And how does Sweden intend to act to influence those Member States which are currently blocking an agreement? How can the government work to ensure that in the end we reach an agreement on a climate-neutral Europe in 2050?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-624	Madam President, I would like I will begin with the question of whether the government can ensure that other countries make the right decisions. It's a little hard to do. It's their decision. I fully share the view that it is important that Europe really is at the forefront here. The EU has such a position and is known for it. We're gonna have it, too. We also wanted a united European Council for the September summit. We should also remember that it has not been long since eleven countries were opposed to committing themselves to 2050. Now it's four. It's moving pretty fast in the right direction. There is no doubt that the best thing would have been if we had been in complete agreement. It was Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Estonia that were not ready at this stage. They did not express that this will never happen. Their reasoning is based on the fact that they themselves have to carry out in-depth analyses of what it will mean for energy supply, for industry and so on. That's why they're not ready now. We just have to keep lying on. I would guess that this issue also comes up during the long-term budget negotiations. I would guess that it is one of the factors that makes those countries choose to wait with that message. We should certainly not give up on reaching agreement. Now there wasn't that possibility. But as I said, it's going in the right direction.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-630	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I fully agree that it is positive that it is moving in the right direction. It's just a shame we can't reach any further. I would like to ask a supplementary question, which is linked to it, about the September summit that the UN Secretary-General has called. It is an important opportunity for the whole world to agree on and discuss these important issues. Of course, it would have liked the EU to have been able to enter strongly into such a summit and that the EU had already reached an agreement on achieving climate neutrality by 2050. How is the EU's ability to press ahead with the UN summit in September affected by the failure to reach an agreement within the EU? What is the timetable for the future? Will we come back to the issue in the European Council before the UN summit, or will we go to the UN summit as a divided Europe on this issue? How does the Prime Minister estimate that it can affect the EU's ability to achieve an even tougher global climate agenda?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-634	Madam President, I would like My assessment is that we will not reach agreement before the summit. These are the conclusions we have. Nevertheless, it will be a strong signal on the part of the European Union. We will not be able to say that Europe agrees on this, but we will be able to say that 24 out of 28 want it. There is no reason to give up on unity. I do not think we will reach agreement before the summit. Nevertheless, the EU will play a prominent role. In addition, individual countries will have it. Sweden and India will have important roles during the summit in terms of industrial adaptability. There Sweden and India together have a special position. There are thus opportunities for both the EU and individual Member States to really push forward on the climate issue.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-638	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. At summits like this, a great deal is usually decided. I note that not much of a remarkable decision has been taken this time. However, I also note that the Prime Minister says that there is a risk of an increase in charges to the EU because one Member State may not agree properly with the others. In this context, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Does the Prime Minister not see the right of veto that all the Member States have on this issue as a possible instrument to use to indicate for Sweden that we will not accept an increased EU fee? We may even want to see a reduction in the EU levy. That is at least the position of my party. I also note that a further set of long-term policy objectives for the Eastern Partnership should be added and that the partnership with Africa should be developed. As far as the Eastern Partnership is concerned, Sweden is already spending SEK 4.2 billion bilaterally over a seven-year period to support the six countries, which are not members of the European Union today. The EU also spends SEK 163 billion over a six-year period on transferring resources from EU Member States to states that are not part of the European Union. How does it rhyme with the attitude of Sweden, the Prime Minister, the Social Democrats and the Government that they want to reduce the fee to the EU? I also wonder how the Prime Minister sees a further expansion of cooperation with Africa, which could entail additional costs for Sweden and the EU.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-643	Madam President, I would like As for the fact that little was decided, I can say that, among other things, it was decided on a strategic agenda for the EU in 2019 – 2024. I think it's so important. Of course, you can wish for more decisions. As far as the right of veto is concerned, the countries are sitting on it. That's what you have. But that discussion is very early at this stage, when there is not even a numbered negotiating argument. Finally, when one takes a position on what is on the table, I believe that the fee is such a question. Another question is what is involved. What expenditure is involved, and what are the main points of such a budget? Are there still so-called corrections or discounts? And what does the rest of the flow look like? For me, it is important to see the bigger picture and what is best for Sweden in this situation. Maybe we shouldn't start by talking about veto. But they're all sitting on the veto. There is a need for consensus. All countries have such a veto. But if everyone is going to start threatening with veto, I don't think there will be much discussion. Cooperation with Africa is crucial. It is clear that there is a value in ensuring that far fewer people make the insanely dangerous journey across the Mediterranean. Thousands of people die in the Mediterranean. To the extent that we can support the development of the African continent, we should ensure that economic refugees do not have to make this dangerous journey. Refugees will still come to our continent. And if you have refugee reasons, you must of course have the right to asylum examined. But cooperation with Africa, so that people do not move because they have too bad lives, is also to the benefit of the European Union. That's a good direction we have.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-648	Madam President, I would like Of course, the budget negotiations are perhaps at an early stage. But when are we going to mark that we won't accept an increase if not now? If you start early you may also see a little better results later. When it comes to the unfortunate fact that people are fleeing, moving or travelling across the Mediterranean and risking their lives, all the political parties in this House feel that we need to work with and deal with it. And Europe is already doing so today. Cooperation with Africa is not all about it. There are only some of the issues to be dealt with. The Eastern Partnership is about political impact on the countries and is largely aimed at enabling the latter to become association countries and possibly to stand as candidates for membership of the EU. That is the crux of the matter.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-651	Madam President, I would like Once again, you can always discuss negotiation tactics. I think it will not be a good discussion if you start by saying that you intend to use your veto. I really think we should always see the bigger picture. What's the fee going on? How high is it? What do you get back? Are there discounts? Then you can say: Now it is good or not good for Sweden. And finally, we have the veto right. The Eastern Partnership is, of course, also important. Everything that lies in the neighbourhood of the European Union is important to us. Of course, positive or negative developments in the EU's neighbourhood also have an impact on the EU. As reflected in the strategic agenda, the EU wants to stand up as a force for important values, for human rights and so on. It is clear that we are doing so in active cooperation with our neighbours. It's important.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-654	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report from your meeting! There has been a lot of reporting in the media as well. Linked to the strategic agenda, it became clear that, unfortunately, agreement was not reached on setting a year. This was up for discussion even when the Prime Minister was with us on the EU Board last Friday. At the time, the Prime Minister said that when you arrive at the long-term budget, that is to say when you talk about a larger package and a whole. There is an opportunity to move forward. We should be aware that these four countries already have lower demands on them today. But they also have a different situation. It is clear that in it you have to think about how far you can push and how far you can go and pull a little bit to try to attract it with you. I'm glad you got that far. I'm sorry you didn't get the big picture. But just as the Prime Minister describes, it is a work that will continue. Now there has been a lot of focus on what was not managed to get into the strategic agenda in terms of climate action. What would be interesting to consider is what was agreed and how it could play a role in the development of the joint EU work over the next five years. It's easy to get caught up in what didn't. But if he instead looks at what became, what would the Prime Minister say are the most important parts that we will see made a difference when we look back at this programming period in five years' time?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-660	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is usually the case that the media report what was not agreed. Maybe it's in the nature of things. My point with the budgetary reasoning is more that I can judge that, for these countries, this is as it is in the balance. They want to add this too. How it ends remains to be seen, but I judge it to be so. They have not said, as I said, that a year will never happen, by 2050. It may well be that they get there. That's the first thing we're gonna aim for. A whole section of the strategic document deals with building a climate-neutral, green, fair and social Europe. There is also a section on promoting Europe......................................................................................................................................................................... Here's a good description, I think. That is why I think that Swedish interests have been well served, because here we have the necessary headlines and content to take the climate work forward and for the EU as a whole to be a strong global player. We shall see the role of the European Union and what we shall do in the European Union to do our part but also in cooperation with the surrounding world, because that is when the most important exchange is made. So I see great opportunities with the strategic agenda to really take this work forward. It is a clear message to the future Commission and the President of the Commission that we want to continue with this.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-664	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. The Prime Minister touched on the last very brief but said that it has nevertheless been touched upon. I'm talking about the Brexit situation. If you look at the reporting in Swedish media, you can be very concerned about what is happening and the conditions for finding a result. Now both the Prime Minister and the undersigned know that in political elections you may need to use breast tones. Hopefully not all the doors have been locked or every opportunity to make good compromises has been blown away. I am guessing that the subject was touched on somewhat during the summit. How do you view developments in the internal political debate in the UK?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-669	Madam President, I would like I'm completely honest when I say that part was very short. It was Friday after the euro summit. It was short because we know so little about where this is going. Just as Annika Qarlsson says, now that there are elections there, the election of party leaders, can surely go a little high. But there is definitely a pretty solid concern that, no matter how that election ends, we have the same problems ahead of us in October as we can see now. We do not see how things would work out easily. I think I said that in the European Council last week. I think it is a great risk that when we come to the European Council in October, we will be sitting there with the same problems.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-671	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister. In a previous change of line here, aid to African countries was involved. In this context, I would like to raise the question of how we support African countries and how we help refugees in the Mediterranean. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Left, we are not helping the refugees by allowing the Libyan coastguard to prevent or intimidate refugees from entering the Mediterranean Sea by force and reprisal. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether, during the discussion on the strategic agenda, something was raised about resuming the rescue operations in the Mediterranean that the EU and EU countries have had in the past. I would also like to ask, like everyone else, a few questions about the climate. It is, of course, a good thing that eleven countries are not now opposed, but that only four countries are opposed. I am pleased that it did not result in compromises in which the EU as a whole reduced its ambitions in relation to the climate. I hope that the Prime Minister shares my view here – that people from these four countries are not eligible for any of the high-level positions that will be set up. It is important that we focus on the climate in terms of high-level additions. I am also thinking about how the Prime Minister views the UN climate summit and Sweden's and other countries' opportunities to take the lead on climate issues. Are we held back by the EU's decisions and the strategic direction, or can we continue to go ahead and show good examples for these four countries – and also for other EU countries that say yes to the conclusions but perhaps are not quite prepared to work for them?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-679	Madam President, I would like Support for countries on the African continent is in dialogue with the African Union. It is a gigantic continent, and we would like that coherence there, because the African Union is that continent's cooperation organisation. These are primarily development opportunities in these countries in order not to take this dangerous path to improve their lives. There are many who naturally want to do so but who do not have refugee status. They come to the northern coast of the African continent, take the deadly road over and die by the thousands. Of course, it is good if we can help reverse this trend so that we do not take this dangerous road as an economic refugee. If you need to flee for other reasons, it will continue to happen in the future, and then we should be prepared to help the people who need to flee. As far as rescue operations are concerned, I would like to remind you that the European Union's actions have also saved many lives in the Mediterranean. But we must stop the large number of people who want to make the life-threatening journey in other ways, and that is a development issue. The development aid that Sweden is engaged in is the same issue. As regards the climate and the link to high-level appointments, the strategic agenda sets out a mandate for the future Commission. It is clear that it is not possible to oppose what is being written there if you want such a position, but in fact to live up to what the European Council has said should be given priority. In this way, there is that connection. At the UN meeting, Sweden, as I said in a previous change of line, together with India, has also been given a special role and will, as an individual country, highlight the perspective of the industrial transition in order to reach the Paris Agreement.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-684	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. I would just like to remind you that now, for some time now, the European Union is not actually carrying out its own rescue operations on the Mediterranean, but everything is referred to the Libyan coastguard. It is almost as dangerous to end up in the hands of it as it is to stay in the boat you are in. I'd like to point that out and send along. I would also like to ask you a few questions about the long-term budget. As I see it, it is in the long-term budget that we can really invest in climate and climate action, with large parts of the budget going to measures that have a positive impact on the climate. We should not pay subsidies to activities that have a negative impact on the climate. I would like to hear your reasoning on the long-term budget.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-686	Madam President, I would like As far as rescue operations are concerned, that is the case. The strategy also includes strengthening Libya as a nation, among other things. Then Libya must have control over its own border and its coastal area. Strengthening Libya's coastguard is in fact a way of also strengthening the country as a whole. This has also been part of the UN Strategy. We must do everything we can to ensure that we have stability, as far as possible. The climate and budget were not discussed at the summit. It is clear that Sweden's view is that a substantial part – I think 20 – 25 per cent, but I do not have the figure in my head – should go to this measure. Several countries think the same: A substantial part of the long-term budget should go to climate change.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-688	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. With regard to the EU's new objective of climate neutrality by 2050, we note that 4 of the EU's 28 countries have not voted in favour of a climate-neutral Europe by 2050. It would have been more effective if all 28 countries had supported this necessary increase in the EU's climate ambitions. Madam President, I would like It is necessary to switch to climate neutrality, to reduce CO2 emissions and to keep the temperature down so that it does not rise and is preferably kept below 1.5 degrees. Environmental and climate issues can best be tackled together at EU and international level. With common ambitious goals, we fight emissions and work for fossil independence and, in the long term, fossil-free societies. Together, we can best reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reduce the risk of natural disasters. For us to meet climate targets, the US, China, Russia and India must follow the direction of the EU and reduce emissions from industry, agriculture, transport and more. Madam President, I would like We have heard of the sad decision of these four EU countries. However, my question relates to the larger emitters. How will the Prime Minister through the EU and the UN work to ensure that the countries mentioned, with high emissions, also follow the EU's example of climate neutrality?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-692	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I fully share the view that it is sad that it was only 24 out of 28. It is progressing, but we would have liked unity. However, it is a good thing that the 1.5-degree target is there, because there is a fine thing about that degree number remaining. Counting backwards gives a very clear signal of what we need to do. As I said, we should still not give up the possibility that in the future it will be 28 out of 28, or 27 out of 27 who say 2050. It is together that we need to do this; it is quite correct. Now the United States has expressed a different view of the Paris Agreement, but it is, as is said here, if we act together that this will have the effect that it will have. Fortunately, however, many of the major cities and many states in the United States say that they are still in the Paris Agreement and will continue to work for it. My guess is that, over time, more and more people will realize that this is how it has to happen, and above all – and this is the big point of intersection – that more people will see that this is really the future. Here lies the new technology, the new jobs and, indeed, the welfare of the future. Once you get over that hump, something happens. Although China and obviously Russia still have an enormous dependence on coal and oil, I think this is the picture of where the future actually lies. Great efforts are now being made, not least in China, to change. We continue to cooperate. We have good bilateral cooperation with China, for example, because there is also an interest in what Sweden can offer regarding future environmental technology. But last and lastly, this is decided at the big meetings, and there Europe is a driving force and should be so.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-697	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister. Let us hope that these four EU countries will re-apply to the decision before the New York climate summit announced by the United Nations. Madam President, I would like As far as the social pillar is concerned, it is important that it does not result in the EU taking over national decision-making rights on social policy and limiting national decision-making rights. The Christian Democrats expect the Prime Minister to emphasise this at the meeting. Madam President, I would like When it comes to elections for the various top cheeses in the EU, it is important for the Prime Minister to raise the importance of gender equality in these posts. We Christian Democrats, of course, want to see a Christian Democrat in the most important post of President of the Commission, and we support the person proposed by the EPP. My question is: In what way will Sweden push for more women to be elected to these top posts?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-701	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, my assessment is that it will unfortunately not be 28 out of 28 before the New York Summit. But you can always live on hope, and if it is, then it is good. But I don't think so. We shall, of course, express that need. As far as the social pillar is concerned, I have said it a number of times, and I can say it again: the decision on the social pillar did not change the division of mandate between the European Union and the Member States in a single sentence. The only way to change that division of powers is to amend the Treaty, and that is not the case. The allocation of mandates is therefore maintained and no decisions are transferred from the Member States to the EU or Brussels. When it comes to the top positions, Sweden and the signatories belong to those who nag the most about this – in almost every post. I believe that it is time to show that the European Union is, in fact, also an equal organisation.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-704	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your accounting. In my first speech, I will concentrate on the social pillar. It is important, for it is important, even if it is not to remove the right of nations to self-determination when it comes to legislation. However, I believe that much can be done to change attitudes here. I mentioned last week when we met up with human rights, on which we agree and on which we have the seven grounds of discrimination laid down in Swedish law. The report highlights the inequality of young people and the creation of equality between women and men, but not the other grounds for discrimination. This seems to me to be a shortcoming. It is extremely important that the EU is clear about the human rights of LGBT people, for example, and not least for the year-long generation. The World Health Organisation, as I mentioned last week, says that this is the most difficult basis for discrimination because of the prejudices that exist against the ageing proportion of the population, and that proportion is increasing within the European Union. I am going to a meeting in Berlin the day after tomorrow to discuss what we can do about this. It is above all the unconscious prejudices against the year-rich that are so prevalent in all policy areas. Then my question is: did you discuss this at this level, or is it limited to equality between women and men and the equality of young people?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-709	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that the social pillar has a lot to do with attitudes. There are both open and hidden attitudes that come out into society to an excessive extent, both in Sweden and around the EU and the world. It is important that this applies to everyone. If it's about people's equal value, that's what should apply. Then it does not matter with sex, age, sexual orientation, religion, skin color or whatever it may be. There is real development potential here in the social pillar. Care should be taken to include all the grounds for discrimination. Take, for example, the issue of jobs. We know the enormous importance it has for a person's freedom to have a job and earn his own living. This applies, of course, to both women and men and if you have a disability. If you are older and want to participate further in the labour market, it is only good for the labour market, because we need all the labour force. I believe that this can be added. We have not been discussing exactly these grounds for discrimination, but we have not said anything about them not being. It gives me strength. We are really going to live up to access to work. It is also about how it is at work and about social security in addition. It is the three main perspectives that form part of the social pillar, and it should of course be possible to add all the grounds for discrimination mentioned by Mr Westerholm.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-713	Madam President, I would like Here I think it is important to take advantage of the knowledge and experience of the umbrella organisations that exist in the EU for disabled people, LGBTQ people, year-long and others. There's Age Platform Europe and so on. There is a great deal of experience there about precisely the everyday obstacles to the rights to which the Declaration of Human Rights states they are entitled. One question: when it comes to high-level posts, do you have criteria for the competence of persons, in addition to gender and country distribution and so on? Are there any criteria written down?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-715	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that civil society's knowledge should be taken into account. That's how we work in Sweden. I know that there is dialogue in Europe too. I do not know if it is carried with the same intensity as in Sweden, for example, but there is therefore a discussion, and it is certainly possible to do more of it. As far as high-level posts are concerned, there will be party groups, gender distribution, distribution between large and small countries and so on. In addition, we have stressed that it must be people who have the competence to lead the Commission, for example, in terms of knowledge and experience – what has been their executive role? – and also that you have integrity. That role requires a great deal of integrity. We have not drawn up a specific list of skills and competences that you must have, but it is clear that this is part of the discussion when we say that we believe that a particular woman or man is fit to lead the Commission or the European Council.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-718	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. We know that there have been long negotiations until late at the last meeting. I have a question for the Prime Minister about the EU's external relations, specifically with Turkey. The European Council has recalled Turkey's illegal exploratory activities in the eastern Mediterranean. The drilling activity condemned by the European Council is also a violation of Cyprus' sovereign rights. Unfortunately, we also have reports of an escalation in the area. Both Greece and Turkey have sent marine forces to the area. The risk of a military confrontation between the countries, with unforeseen consequences, is imminent. I think that we in this House are very much in agreement that our Europe needs peace in the immediate region rather than conflict. I wonder, Prime Minister: what more tools does the EU have in its toolbox that can bring Turkey back to normal?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-722	Madam President, I would like It was a very clear position now on the wrong thing that is being done. As Kadir Kasirga says, there was an escalation on the exact same day. This came after a message that meant that we had been given the idea that Turkey would hold back a little bit. Instead, the opposite was done. It is serious in itself, and that is why we drew attention to it and took a clear stand on the Cyprus issue here. It's their exclusive economic zone. We have also said to Turkey that we want Turkey to hold back and not to step this up, but to show a responsibility for not getting any military escalation here. You're supposed to stay away from that kind of action. The European Council has not discussed what additional tools can be used. Now there is dialogue with Turkey. Then the Foreign Ministers will have to discuss. In the event of this continuing or escalating, the issue will primarily be discussed in the GAC General Council. But we will follow it closely and stand up for the rights of Cyprus and Greece and try to do everything possible to alleviate the situation so that there is no further escalation.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-725	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. With its geopolitical position, Turkey is an important country. The EU also has a migration agreement with the country, which has been criticised a great deal because of the country's progress towards an increasingly authoritarian regime. Since 1990 Turkey has had candidate country status vis-à-vis the EU. This means that Turkey must fulfil its obligations towards the European Union, including the Copenhagen criteria. Today, however, it seems that Turkey is very far from this process. But there is also hope. Last Sunday the Turkish Social Democrats won the mayor's election in Istanbul. A new hope has thereby been lit. However, while the opposition in Turkey is turning its face to the EU, we see a tendency for Ankara's rulers to move more and more rapidly towards Russia, through military purchasing agreements and so on. It is a development that runs counter to the interests of the European Union. Would the Prime Minister like to comment on this as well?
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-728	Madam President, I would like That is an important point mentioned here, namely that the opposition has constantly stated that it wants a link, a contact and a bridge to the EU. When other forces have said that it is time to end this on the part of the European Union, the opposition in Turkey has said that they do not want it, because it is important for them. However, that does not mean that Turkey's government should be allowed to do anything. We are following this very closely, and then the General Council will have to discuss whether there is something else that needs to be done to prevent what we absolutely do not want to happen. But in the political context in Turkey, I think it is important, even when the opposition is so clear, to say that we want this contact and that we make sure that we keep it. For it creates hope and faith in the future in Turkey.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-731	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to thank the Prime Minister for his report and for the solid work that has obviously been done by the Swedish Government to ensure that the strategic agenda is permeated by many of the values that are important to us Swedes. At the same time, it is deeply worrying that four EU countries remain blocking and delaying a decision on a climate-neutral Europe by 2050. On the climate issue, we have now come to a point where it is not only the climate-deniers who are the problem, but also all the forces that want to delay strong action in order to achieve the Paris Agreement. In fact, the future of my children and many other children is at stake. As the President of Brazil increases the destruction of the Amazon and Donald Trump withdraws from the Paris Agreement, the EU must be at the forefront and a model. The fact that we have then also adopted targets in line with the Paris Agreement is important. It is even more important that we take steps to achieve the objectives and to make the transition. It is therefore very gratifying that the strategic agenda has a section on climate change. My question is how the points in the section dealing with climate, gender equality, equality with several important issues are linked to the section dealing with the economic base. It is of course important that climate change is a key element in the EU's competitiveness, job creation and economic development.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-735	Madam President, I would like I share your concern. I think it would have been good if we had been 28 out of 28. But like I said, we're not gonna give up. If we've gone from 11 to 4 in resistance, we can move on. The sooner, the better it is. I think it was a wise analysis of the fact that there are both the deniers and those who are delaying. That is why the EU's power is so important. We have been at the forefront of the Paris Agreement, the negotiations in Katowice and the follow-up summit, which France had just to follow up on the Paris Agreement. There Europe is a force and must be so. I believe that the analysis carried out by Annika Hirvonen Falk is correct: that it is connected. That is why I stress that the development we see in terms of climate change will be our economic basis, so to speak. That is the right development. Those who delay or deny will find it difficult, but those who are far ahead will be well off in terms of competitiveness. The new jobs will be created here. I can only mention the fact that we in Sweden are far ahead in terms of the possibility of producing steel without coal. It is a breakthrough in the industrial context that we have not seen in many, many years. It is understandable what a huge competitive advantage it would be if Sweden were to cope with this – there are a few years left; it is not next year. For this is what the whole world will want to ask for. It is important to get the forces that deny and delay to realise that not least children and young people who are now growing up and who are going to consume in the future will demand environmentally friendly products, environmentally friendly services and environmentally friendly travel. That's what you're supposed to offer. That's why I believe in tipping point. One must come to this as a nation: this is the best thing for us.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-740	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I very much hope that the Prime Minister will be right in the optimism he expresses and that all countries will come to this understanding. I also feel great hope in front of all the children and young people who are now protesting around Europe and the world in order for us adults to take our responsibility for the climate. Of course, it is important that we listen to what they ask for. At the same time, there are forces with great economic interests in the past that are doing everything in their power to keep us in fossil dependence. It is difficult for individual consumers to ask for solutions there. It requires major decisions at structural levels, not least in the EU.
i-1ef9ed5f13c75ea5-741	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's right. It's not just about consumers. For example, we must ensure that we move a great deal of our transport from road to rail. And the transports that cannot go by rail should be carried out by clean trucks. It is structural decisions that must be made in order for it to work. In general, I think we should think more. Within the framework of the January agreement, we have before us a tax exchange of 15 billion. I think some of this is there. People want to do the right thing. Most people want to do the right thing. I think a lot of people are scared and worried too. What will this mean? Am I losing my job? Will I be able to drive to and from work? We can then show the possibilities and say: We are helping each other. You're supposed to be able to do the right thing, but we're not putting the whole financial burden on you. We're helping each other. Then more will both want and actually do the right thing. It is an important part of the solution.
