i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-2	Mr President, I would like to In Alingsås I met Miguel, 17 years old. Even in primary school, the problems began when Miguel did not break the reading code. Then, as it went on in middle school, he came more and more behind. He left behind at school and started to get sloppy with schoolwork. He felt worse than everyone else and started getting messy for attention. He bullied and was frozen out. The more lonely he became, the more he messed up in classes and breaks. In high school, Miguel began to skip school, and no teacher or other adult did anything. In ninth grade, Miguel was hardly in school at all. The parents were busy with their own problems. Today, a year and a half later, Miguel has no comprehensive school degree and no job. In Alingsås, I also met Soran, a boy in his 20s. Soran is incredibly intelligent, a so-called unique child with photographic memory. In primary and secondary school it went pretty well, although Soran was somewhat odd. But when Soran started a new high school, it was messy, and staff turnover was high. Many teachers stayed only for a short time, and many substitute teachers replaced each other. Soran started to be home more and more. He thought it was boring and messy in class. When the third vicaria demanded that the students sit on their benches and read the Lord of the Flies a third time, Soran refused. He had already read it twice and knew it by heart! The teacher insisted, but Soran went home. Then Soran didn't go to school in two and a half years. Soran, of course, did not receive a diploma from grade 9 and therefore did not enter high school. But thanks to his parents, he had to take a test to MIT in Massachusetts, where he was more than welcome. Then he went there and became one of their top students. I've told you about two students I've met in Alingsås, both of whom have failed to get a diploma in grade 9. For one of them it has gone very well, but how it will go for the other we do not know yet. What we do know, however, is that if we are to do something to prevent exclusion, unemployment, abuse and crime, it is to ensure that all children and young people complete primary school and high school with complete grades. It shows all the research. This is not the case in Sweden. Last spring, 27,440 students left grade 9 without a complete grade. There are more individuals than the population of the entire municipality of Alingsås. One in four students has not approved on one or more subjects, and that is unfortunately more than last year. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics, which came earlier this autumn, every fourth student has no grades in one or more subjects already in grade 6. That is what today's school debate should be about, Mr President. On 3 December, the PISA study was presented, the study carried out by the OECD comparing the educational results of more than 70 countries. Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, PISA showed Sweden's major problems in today's school. The minister tweeted it was a joyous day. I don't think so, and I don't think we're moderates. It was a sad day. The results are known to many. 11 percent were excluded, most of them because they don't know enough Swedish. 11% was excluded, which is three times higher than the EU average. 131⁄2 percent of the children who would have participated in the PISA exam were absent that day, and 18 percent of those who still did the exam were approved. During this year, half of the municipalities in Sweden have made savings in school. We want the municipalities to invest in the school. Therefore, we Moderates have allocated 7 billion more to municipalities so that you can recruit good teachers, keep those you have, invest in further training and invest in the irreplaceable and important principals. We have also set aside 2.4 billion for Swedish school and our children to have more hours. In Sweden, our children have almost a year less comprehensive school lessons than the average in Europe. We want all children to learn Swedish. That is why we have set aside 100 million over three years to introduce language preschool so that all children can speak the language when they start school. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have many more suggestions to improve the school for students, teachers, principals and other staff. We will never tweet that we are happy and satisfied when every fourth student leaves comprehensive school without grades and when thousands of teachers are missing. For us Moderates, all children, 100 percent, are important and not just 75 percent, as in Sweden of the Social Democrats.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-16	Mr President, I would like to The week that PISA was presented, we heard the Moderate representatives Kristina Axén Olin repeatedly comment on how terrible the result was. She then devoted herself only to talking about who had not participated in the survey and, just like just now, being upset that you are happy that the results of the knowledge have gone up. The detail that Kristina Axén Olin is upset about is based on the OECD's regulatory system and is therefore not something that Sweden has decided. It even went so far in an Expressen interview that she claimed that PISA is politically controlled. That's not true. I would like Kristina Axén Olin to develop what she means by the claim that PISA is politically governed. Likewise, we are probably many in here and certainly more outside looking at this curiously on Moderate recipes to increase equivalence and reduce segregation. What does this recipe look like? The other day we could read Kristina Axén Olin and party leader Kristersson's seven-point list of measures that had to be taken for the school. Nowhere was the problem of equivalence mentioned, nor was there any mention of the marketisation of schools today. It is interesting to note that the Moderates support a motion of censure precisely because of an unreasonable market system in the Public Employment Service but do not mention in a word the challenge in the same field in school. Therefore, I would like to know: How do the Moderates view this great challenge that more and more people in our society, not least the Moderates themselves, address?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-20	Mr President, I would like to Thankfully, Gunilla Svantorp asked me various questions about Moderate recipes for a better school. I have explained a few here today, and I am sure I will have the opportunity to explain a few more. It is of course about more hours, more teachers, that all children should be able to succeed and about the 7 billion extra to the municipalities. There you, Gunilla Svantorp, have made cuts that make half of the municipalities have savings. It is also about a better teacher education, about investing in principals, about peace and quiet in school and about a number of other things. As a social democrat, Gunilla Svantorp, can't you stand here and defend the results of the PISA investigation, which you are now accusing me of harming me over? In PISA, 11 percent was excluded. It is proof of a major failure that in today's school it is 11 percent who can't speak so good Swedish that they could take the test at all. We had an extremely large loss of our 13.5 percent, and no one can explain why these 13.5 percent were absent that day. Regardless of this, 18 percent of those who failed the test were rejected. It can't be a day of joy for the Social Democrats when 18 percent of those who do PISA don't even get approved?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-22	Mr President, I would like to All that Kristina Axén Olin and Ulf Kristersson are calling for in their seven-point list of measures are already happening. There are measures. Kristina Axén Olin is talking about more hours. Where are the teachers to these more hours to be found? You can stand in the speaker's chair or write debate articles and wish things, but you also have to look at what it actually looks like. If Kristina Axén Olin and her party have not discovered it, we have a great shortage of teachers in this country, and then you want more hours. We also want that eventually, but not today. If we were to increase by more hours as we are today, who would teach? It will be those who do not have education. Surely Kristina Axén Olin can't want this? I need to tell you something, too. In your article, Kristina Axén Olin, at least I read that you thought it was a good PISA result. I may have read it wrong, but that's what the article said, isn't it?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-25	Mr President, I would like to I note that Gunilla Svantorp did not answer my question if you think it's okay that we have 18% who fail in PISA. I think it is a sad result of PISA, and even sadder is of course our own Swedish studies that show the grade statistics year after year. Gunilla Svantorp cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that every year there are more students who do not get a full grade. There will be fewer teachers, and there will be more students who will not pass. Surely this cannot please a social democrat.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-26	Mr President, I would like to I listened carefully to your speech, Kristina Axén Olin of the Moderates, not least as regards the worrying situation of diversity and the great differences in Swedish schools. I have had the privilege of working with education issues since 2002, and the Moderates have mainly joined several points in Liberal school policy. So also on SvD Debate the other day. There was nothing in the article that differed from the policy of the Alliance and the Liberals in recent years, but we differ on a few points. Because of the differences we see in Swedish schools, we in the Liberals advocate a state headship. This is due to differences in access to educational, trained teachers, differences in efforts, differences in quality and a decline in the status of the teaching profession in recent decades.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-30	The second point where the Liberals differ from the Moderates is that we do not cut back on the Special Educational School Authority, as the Moderates do in the budget. We are not cutting 1.3 billion on the equivalence budget. It is just as Kristina Axén Olin says, that many municipalities have extensive economic problems. I'll sum it up. When I read the Moderates' draft budget, I see that you are cutting 1.9 billion on the education budget. How does your school policy go together, Kristina Axén Olin?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-31	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad Roger Haddad's asking questions. I am also pleased that Roger Haddad, unlike those with whom he forms a government base – the Social Democrats – agrees with the proposals that we Moderates presented in the article in Svenska Dagbladet. But, Roger Haddad, you can not only read the posts you read, but what you have to read is that we Moderates invest 7 billion more to the municipalities so that they can invest in the school, hire more teachers, have smaller classes, invest in special educators, have more special teaching groups and everything else that the school needs. This is what we do. The Social Democrats have been governing this country and school issues since 2014. We have now had a Social Democratic Minister for Education for five years, and we see that the results are going down, that teachers are getting fewer and that not even half of the teacher education is getting approved. My question to Roger Haddad is: how can you be proud of your cooperation with the Social Democrats on school issues?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-35	Mr President, I would like to The spokesperson of the Moderates does not want to answer the question of how to increase equivalence and equality and improve quality in school when you reduce 2 billion, including half a billion on teaching assistants, which will relieve teachers of their administrative burden. We know, and Kristina Axén Olin knows it too, that the main reason for teachers leaving their profession is lack of work environment. Teacher assistants and support functions are one of the efforts needed by the state. You can't just send out money to the municipal bag. Both Kristina Axén Olin and I have been municipal politicians and know that if the money is not earmarked, there is a risk that it will go to something else. So you are cutting about 2 billion on the education budget, Kristina Axén Olin. Moreover, my question remains: why are you opposed to a state headship?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-38	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad asks me again why we're going down to school. No, we're not cutting back on school. We add 7 billion more than the government to the municipalities and the school because it is the municipalities that are responsible. It was Göran Persson who announced the school 30 years ago. This decision was deeply unfortunate. What I think you and I agree on, Roger Haddad, is that knowledge is the world's strongest weapon. If there is anything we can do to improve the world for our children, it is to ensure that all children complete comprehensive school with full grades. It also means that all children should have the same chance and the same opportunities. In the government that you and you liberals are in, you are cutting down on the opportunity for children to cope with school. There are fewer teachers today, they are not good enough teacher education and there are more and more children leaving school without full grades.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-40	I would like to remind you that we do not usually use you and yours in Parliament when we change our lines without speaking through the President, that is to say, we will tell the President what we think of our fellow debaters. So we don't address each other directly.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-41	Mr President, I would like to At the Special Educational School Authority, the country's top experts on children with special needs are working at school – just such children as Kristina Axén Olin met when she visited Alingsås. Nevertheless, the Moderates propose cuts of SEK 8 million to the Special Educational School Agency. This will mean that they need to lay off staff who are currently out in schools who need help in solving the situation for children who have become at home or who are at risk of being at home. The Moderates also cut SEK 1,385 million on state support for equal schools. The equivalence is flawed in Sweden. This is the biggest problem for Swedish schools, as the PISA study shows. During our time with Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, we in the Green Party have given priority to solving the problem of the unequal school. Therefore, the equivalence grant, which is further extended in this budget, was also introduced. The equality grant gives more to all schools but most to those who need it best. Since we have a large school segregation in this country, the needs of schools are very different. In some schools there are very few who need extra support and in others very many. The Moderates have finally seen that inequality is a problem, but they do not present solutions but cut back where the money is needed at its best.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-45	Mr President, I would like to Annika Hirvonen asks me how we are going to make our budget go together and talk about the Special Educational School Agency. The Special Educational School Authority is doing a fantastic job, and we Moderates think it is important. However, they are not from the Special Education School Authority operating in schools and working as a special teacher and working directly with the children. What we Moderates do to help children with special needs is that we invest 7 billion more than the government and give that money to the municipalities because the school is subject to the municipalities' budget. For us, equivalence in school is incredibly important. We believe that talented and committed teachers who have high expectations of children are the best key to achieving a good school. We also believe that the Vice-Chancellor is invaluable, and we believe that it is incredibly important to invest in our principals and school leaders around the municipalities and that the children who have special needs should receive the help they deserve. For us, there is no contrast to creating a good school that is aimed at all children. What can be seen now with the government we have had with the Green Party and the Social Democrats is that more and more children go out of school without full grades. We see it in grade 9 and we see it even now in grade 6 that every fourth child does not get a full grade. How can Annika Hirvonen think that it seems that the social democrats and the Green Party's school policy leads to something positive?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-49	Mr President, I would like to During our time in government, 31 000 more adults have been employed in Swedish schools. We have prioritised the structural challenges of inequality and introduced an equivalence grant that provides more to all and most to those who need it best. The results are reversed after examination. In the latest PISA measurement we see how Sweden is back in the knowledge results in all areas. We see how teachers' status is higher in the latest international survey on teachers' working conditions. We see how Swedish students are better in mathematics and reading, in science, in the measurements made by the OECD. I am convinced that we need more of that policy, not less.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-52	Mr President, I would like to It doesn't matter if there are 31 000 more employees in school and some parameters look better in PISA, although it is still within the margin of error. The curves I care about, what I feel in my heart, go in the wrong direction when the Green Party and the Social Democrats rule. We have more children, Annika Hirvonen, who attend school without full grades. We have more children who leave high school without an approved upper secondary school degree after three years. There are more children in grade 6 who have gaps in their grades. Mr President, I would like to Annika Hirvonen can't say that all curves go in the right direction when those who really mean something go completely in the wrong direction?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-54	Mr President, I would like to Kristina Axén Olin represents, as you know, a party that sat at the government for eight years before the five years mentioned here earlier from the pulpit. Therefore, to criticise equivalence work or PISA results, I do not know whether the Moderates are really going to do here. I have a question for Kristina Axén Olin about the system that we have in Swedish school and which is unique in the world because we are the only country that allows such profit withdrawals as we do. As is well known, the Moderates are a party that has been on the side of venture capitalists since its inception and has a number of representatives active in politics as well as in these companies and venture capital companies. We also know that the four largest free school groups made a profit of approximately SEK 3.5 billion in recent years. It is money that could have been invested in hiring more teachers, as Kristina Axén Olin talks about, and it could have gone towards increasing equivalence. In the municipality by municipality where the Moderates are in charge, systems have been put in place today to ensure that the building permits granted and in the municipal and urban planning that are made make ready premises for future formations of free schools. Does Kristina Axén Olin think that it is fair and that it is on equal terms for all the actors in the school that the municipalities you run simply give the independent schools a head start? It provides subsidies in the form of millions of SEK and builds premises before the independent schools have even applied to start their business. Do Kristina Axén Olin and the Moderates consider this reasonable?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-57	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat asks questions about the free schools and freedom of choice that we have in Sweden. I believe that free schools have been invaluable in terms of quality development in Sweden. I also believe that free schools are one of the things that has contributed positively to the fact that we have had wage developments that have gone in the right direction with teachers. I also see many free schools doing an amazing job, not least in terms of integration. I am thinking in particular of the International English School, which many times has several nationalities in the same classroom and is very successful. What should worry both the Left Party and us Moderates, as well as Social Democrats and all other parties here, is that one in four students can't handle the school in Sweden. There we have a shared responsibility, and I think we should all be very concerned about what happens in our future when one in four children leaves school. Daniel Riazat is happy to answer this question: How can you in the Left Party sleep well at night and feel satisfied with the work Sweden has done in the last five years, when one student leaves school without a full grade?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-60	Mr President, I would like to I note that Kristina Axén Olin did not answer my question. After all, I am the questioner here. Kristina Axén Olin also says that she believes that in international comparisons extreme privatisation of the Swedish school system has had a positive impact. But after about three decades it is no longer time to believe, but it is time to actually do something about the greatest problems that have arisen as a result. Wage development has not become more positive thanks to independent schools because on average you have about SEK 2 500 lower salary for your staff. In addition, the International English School is the school with the worst student composition when it comes to pupils with different backgrounds. As far as the last five years are concerned, I have not been in government, and I am not going to take any responsibility for this. I would like to repeat my question once again: does Kristina Axén Olin believe that it is reasonable to give independent operators who make large profits these benefits over the municipalities?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-64	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have a unique system of freedom of choice and at the same time a fully funded school, which means that everyone can choose school without having to pay anything alongside. Earlier in Sweden we had a system where some could afford to buy places and pay to go to free schools. That is not the case today. Today, all children can choose the school they think is best for them. When it comes to supervision and quality review of the school, I think this is very important, and I see with concern that we have a number of schools in Sweden that do not perform sufficiently high quality. Therefore, we Moderates have invested 44 million more to the School Inspectorate, because we think their work is important – to review quality, ensure that all children have good quality, suggest and take action and, in cases where it is not possible, withdraw permission. Mr President, I would like to I would like the Left Party to agree with our wish and also to add 44 million more to the School Inspectorate.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-67	Mr President, I would like to In recent weeks, the PISA result has been mentioned, not least in the speech by Kristina Axén Olin, and I genuinely wonder what the Moderates' position is on this. When the PISA results were presented on December 3, it was difficult to rejoice, one could read from the Moderate side. A week ago, on December 10, Kristina Axén Olin, together with Ulf Kristersson, wrote a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet, which I would like to quote: It was the first hill to go to the school of the Alliance and Jan Björklund. It was gratifying that Sweden has now turned the knowledge gap that has been going on for 20 years. And most recently, today in the speaker's chair, Kristina Axén Olin lifts up that it is difficult to see it as a day of joy. So I wonder: What is the Moderate attitude? Was the PISA result pleasing or not?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-70	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Christensson asks me about Moderates' attitude towards the PISA result. The PISA result is deeply worrying, and it should also worry the Center Party, the Liberals, the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and everyone else in here. It is worrying when 11% of children do not speak well enough Swedish or have any disability. However, the bulk was the children who were not allowed to take the test because they do not speak well enough Swedish. The fact that we have three times the proportion in Sweden compared to the average for the rest of Europe is deeply worrying. The second part, that Sweden is the worst in Europe in terms of domestic versus foreign-born children, is even more worrying. It was 13 1⁄2 percent that did not come and took the test that day though they would have done it. That is an extremely high figure, and no one can give an explanation of why so many were gone that day. This is also worrying. Worse still, maybe 18 percent didn't even pass. Of course, there were numbers that went in the right direction; it was about knowledge of mathematics, natural knowledge and some other things. We shall, of course, be pleased about this. Yet, as we also wrote in the article, PISA cannot be seen as a result of joy. The minister tweeted about a day of joy and that she was proud to be the minister of school. But most figures in the PISA are deeply disturbing and should not least worry you in the Center Party.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-74	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that more obviously needs to be done to strengthen all students and their learning outcomes. But I find it gratifying that we are increasing the knowledge results in PISA in terms of reading comprehension, mathematics and science. It is good that we are showing that the reforms carried out during the time of the Alliance are having an effect. We have a focus on knowledge results, as the Moderates also wrote in the debate article in Svenska Dagbladet. That is why I genuinely wonder: Are the Moderates happy that we are moving forward in PISA, or is it not? With regard to the problems and the additional things that need to be done, I agree with several parts. We need to focus more on those students who have the worst conditions, and it is crucial, as PISA also points out, to strengthen equivalence in Swedish schools. But there are now two messages coming from the Moderates as to whether the result in the PISA presented two weeks ago was pleasing or not.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-77	Mr President, I would like to No, the PISA results were not pleasing. Most of the things in it really hurt the soul and should worry many. I am surprised that the Center Party and the Liberals, who have previously been part of the Alliance where we made improvements for Swedish schools, choose to support a government that has not come forward with a single proposal since I joined the Education Committee. Not a single concrete proposal on how to improve school has come. I think this should worry the Center Party more than the Moderates' attitude towards the PISA.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-79	Mr President, I would like to For many years, the school has been an experimental workshop for cluttered, postmodern left-wing radicals. Curriculums, models, grading systems and one strange educational trick after another have replaced each other on a continuous basis. Politically correct concepts have been used in pedagogy to indoctrinate pupils in the left-wing liberal mind. Instead of focusing on fact-based knowledge, order and order in classrooms and respect for each other, criticism of norms and structures has become a guiding principle. Students' own responsibilities have been removed, and the demands on teachers to increase pupils' learning outcomes have increased significantly. It is time to break this trend. If the school is to succeed, the right efforts must be made right from the start. Over a ten-year period, the number of children in preschool has increased by nearly 90 000, and many preschools have too little staff. Sick leave, burnt-out staff and high staff turnover have characterised the activities, and this has resulted in reduced security and continuity for children. At the same time, I can note that the Government's budget chooses to reduce the funding for preschool by nearly SEK 700 million. It's kind of weird. The Swedish Democrats want to go another way. In our budget exercise, we invest SEK 1.3 billion in our so-called pre-school billion to enhance the quality of preschool. We want smaller groups of children and limit the number of children per employee to a maximum of five. We also want to strengthen the living environment and working conditions of our preschool teachers. In addition to this, we are investing SEK 300 000 in a abolished withdrawal for preschool teachers. Through a safe and good preschool period, we lay the foundation for learning in recent years. A basic prerequisite for learning is also that there is a degree of study. However, that is not the case everywhere today. According to the Swedish School Inspectorate's latest student survey, answered by 720,000 pupils, teachers and guardians at primary and secondary schools around the country, three out of ten students say that they do not have studies at school. It is most alarming that the proportion of students who do not have studies is increasing already in year 5. So we're talking about 11-year-olds. Students in grade 5 also feel that the school work has become less pleasurable, less fun and less interesting and that curiosity is less satisfied. That's three out of ten. Then you should also remember that the student base has increased since the last measurement. It is therefore a matter of a non-essential number of students. It is rarely the very best students who are affected by this, but it is precisely those students who need the most support that are most affected. Curiosity is changing to discomfort. School fatigue strikes. Efforts are decreasing. That must not be the case. The school survey also shows that fewer and fewer students in grade 9 experience that an adult acts in bullying and other violations. The variation is great, and there are schools where half of the students do not feel that the adult world reacts. Why is this the case? The answer may be found in the report presented by the Teacher Association last autumn. There four out of ten teachers felt that they had to devote much of their teaching to maintaining order in the classroom rather than teaching. More than half of the teachers said that they hesitate to act when a student interferes, because they are unsure of what they are allowed to do or are afraid to be reported. Seven out of ten primary school teachers and six out of ten secondary school teachers say they simply don't know what to do to stop messy situations. The solution, of course, is not the classical Social Democratic one, that is, to draw out more unspecified funds for schools, but instead to ensure that teachers are given all the power to act, that any doubts about this are removed and that schools ensure that studies are maintained. The regulatory framework needs to be tightened up as a matter of urgency. In our budget exercise we therefore invest SEK 1 billion to create studies in school. Among other things, we strengthen the Swedish School Inspectorate's work with half a billion in addition to the Government's budget. More unannounced inspections, expanded activities and better follow-up will strengthen government control. In the event of obvious maladministration, the state should also be able to take over the school and appoint one of the state's appointed principals. We also invest half a billion in so-called on-call classes and on-call schools. This is where students who do not work in a normal school situation should be moved. This may, for example, be about students who disrupt order despite orders or students who bully or threaten other students and teachers. It is important in all such situations to stand up for students who go to school to learn something and for those who are subjected to bullying and threats, for example, not to stand up for those who practice threats and bullying. There should be no doubt whatsoever about which students we should protect. The recruitment of teachers must also be strengthened, and the role of teachers must be refined. Today, teachers' training is far too low. We want to increase admission requirements and cut the admission rate for the university test. We also want to strengthen the mentoring role, so that inappropriate teachers are screened out early in education. Similarly, we must streamline the teaching role. The teachers have in recent years become some kind of extra social secretary. We therefore propose 1.5 billion to strengthen so-called support staff at school. These could include IT staff, administrative staff, caretakers or student health staff, such as curators, school nurses, school doctors and psychologists – all to relieve teachers, so that they can focus on the very purpose of the teaching role. Mr President, I would like to The school should be a place for learning. It should be a place where there is order in the classrooms and in the school. It's supposed to be a place where students treat each other and teachers with respect. Having said that, it is our firm opinion that we need a completely new focus on Swedish school policy. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that there are many points of contact with what Kristina Axén Olin of the Moderates said in her speech. I look forward to constructive conversations. Perhaps we can find common solutions in this area too, so that we can break the Social Democratic power drive over school policy.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-93	Mr President, I would like to One of the most important issues for improving school quality and, not least, performance, perhaps the most important factor, is teachers and the availability of qualified trained teachers. To succeed, we must – as Patrick Reslow did – recruit the best in the teaching profession. We must keep teachers and attract back those who have left the profession. An important item – because this is, after all, a budget debate, Mr President – is the state teacher's salary boost, which we initiated a few years ago. This means that the state goes in and provides additional funds to raise the status of teachers, increase their career opportunities, expand opportunities to want to become teachers and develop on their job, and value particularly skilled teachers. Then my question to Patrick Reslow is based on the Swedish Democrats' budget: Why are you cutting by 2.6 billion in the post teacher's wages? What I have heard from the spokesperson of the Swedish Democrats from the pulpit, Mr President, is not directly compatible with the budget that the Swedish Democrats are putting on the table today.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-96	Mr President, I would like to I note that Roger Haddad puts forward exactly the same arguments that Social Democrats have put forward in the media recently. Liberals have therefore been social democratised in these months. We do not want to reduce teachers' salaries. That's not what it's all about. What we are critical of, however, is the system that has been put in place and which we think is deeply unfair. It doesn't come to all teachers. Instead, we want to see a system in which there are more career steps for teachers and which is rewarded on other aspects than those of the model that has now been implemented. I also note that Roger Haddad is arguing as if the state were head of the school. Even if the Liberals want this, it is not really the case, but it is the municipalities that are the principals. What are the government parties and their support parties doing to strengthen local government budgets? After all, they are the ones who are supposed to finance teachers in the first place. This myth that the Swedish Democrats would cut teachers' salaries is not true. We want to abolish the system that has been put in place with first teacher services. During a transition period, we want to look at another career system. Then we want to gradually increase wages by introducing several steps in different career paths.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-100	Mr President, I would like to This is remarkable. In a situation where many municipalities are forced to cut down on, for example, the school, the Swedish Democrats choose to deduct 3 billion to go to the municipalities in this budget. It is earmarked school money for municipalities, including to hire specialist teachers, to strengthen pupil health and not least to hire qualified teachers. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats must answer where in the education budget these 2.6 billion are. It says minus 2.6 billion on the Teacher Salary Lift. When we wanted to introduce this, the Social Democrats initially said no. When we have run higher teachers' salaries locally in the municipalities, the Social Democrats have also said no. But you have, after all, supported this proposal in some of the country's municipalities, as you have done in the past. Yes, we want a government headship. I hope that you will vote in favour of such a proposal when it comes to the House.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-104	Mr President, I would like to It is no wonder that the municipalities are on their knees. Not least, Roger Haddad's own party has helped with this, with the enormous mass immigration policy that has been carried out and which has created problems for Swedish schools. The number of pupils has only increased, the exclusion areas have increased and the problems of exclusion have increased. Perhaps, before talking about spending a lot of money, you should look a little bit at what politics has brought about the problems that municipalities have. We don't want to cut teachers' salaries. On the other hand, we want to abolish first teacher services. We are very clear about that. If Roger Haddad has a problem with that, it'll have to stand for him. We are very clear that we want a different career system. We want to see increased salaries for all teachers and not for a few chosen on indefinite premises, on which this system is actually based.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-107	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Patrick Reslow and read in the Swedish Democrats' motion about how to treat different groups of students, at least I wonder a little bit of the picture I get in my head. It is from preparation classes and on-call classes to duty classes and level groupings of different kinds and certainly something more that I have forgotten. How do the Swedish Democrats think that children should be able to meet at school in order to achieve the writings about values and about meeting other people who are not exactly like yourself? It's actually in the curriculum. How do the Swedish Democrats believe that we should be able to achieve what is stated in that legal text if children never have the opportunity to meet in school? According to the speech we have just heard, there are many initiatives to be made at school. But it was not very long ago, about a year ago, that we stood in this House and you Swedish democrats together M and KD voted through a budget that pulled down on the school. School needs more security, study and equivalence. This also requires a stable economic environment rather than a constant change of opinion. However, the political game is always more important for the Swedish Democrats. And even in this draft budget, the SD is spending money on equivalence initiatives, which are based on the proposals of the School Commission, i.e. research. Instead, it is the Swedish Democrats' own experience and opinion that should be allowed to govern the allocation of resources. How do the Swedish Democrats actually think when you cut back on equivalence, or is it that the Swedish Democrats do not see equivalence in school as an important issue?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-113	Mr President, I would like to One is a little surprised by the questions of the Social Democrats. This isn't the first time this has come up. How do you meet at school? Can Gunilla Svantorp tell me why you crave for students who consistently interfere with order? Why do the Social Democrats turn around for students who practice bullying against other students or threaten teachers and students? Why should they meet students who want to be in school to learn something and develop? Move these students, we say. We are not going to have those students in regular education, but they are going to take a special course at an on-call school or in a on-call class. When it comes to preparation classes, we think it's obvious that if you don't master the Swedish language, you have to go to a class where you learn it, and where all the focus is on the Swedish language, before you get into an ordinary class. Otherwise, the whole pace and the level of knowledge of the class is reduced. It is incomprehensible that, despite all the debates over the years and in spite of all the experience we have in this area, the Social Democrats have still not understood this. What is required for the Social Democrats to be awakened from the catacombs of the Black Death?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-118	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are experts at simplifying. Either it is, or it is. Either it's black, or it's white. There's, like, no middle ground. Many of the children who interfere do so for a reason. There are probably some who bother because it's fun to interfere, but there are actually those who have disabilities that make them need to meet in a special way. They therefore want Patrick Reslow and the Swedish Democrats only to send out without action and put in other classes. I think it's sad. The research also shows that children who get to be showered by the Swedish language when they come to Sweden are much easier to learn Swedish. The Swedish Democrats instead want to put these children in special classes where they never hear Swedish but from the adult, although it is very important that they learn Swedish together with other Swedish children. How do the Swedish Democrats intend to contribute to this?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-121	Mr President, I would like to So we're told we paint everything in black and white. That is not the case, of course, but it is also a typical social democratic mantra. Some who interfere. Here comes the sin-of-the-mentality – just the sin-of-the-sin-mentality that has destroyed Swedish school. Of course, that is not the case. There are children who do not work in normal education, and then you should not have them in normal education. In the case of preparation classes and that you do not master the Swedish language, you should of course speak Swedish in the preparation classes. That's the idea. But how should you assimilate regular education in social studies, for example, when you do not master the language? How are you going to assimilate mathematics and modern languages? That is completely impossible, and there we have the explanation for the poor knowledge development that we have in school. Then I think not only about the grades, but I think about the actual knowledge, the knowledge you bring from primary school to upper secondary school and from upper secondary school to university. There the upper secondary school says that you have approved students, but they do not meet the knowledge requirements that they really should have for the grade.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-126	Mr President, I would like to This morning I was called a poop sausage by the preschool group's mischievous boy. They hit each other, he and my son. They were given a word. Then they hit each other again, about as hard as they could with each other's adults holding them. Both of them were poo sausages. According to Patrick Reslow, students who, despite orders, interfere with order should be placed in emergency schools. The Swedish Democrats want to protect the well-being of children from them. How small students are the Swedish Democrats going to force their education interns? Mr President, I would like to My stomach hurts at the thought that my son's mischievous friend, today three years old, will be met by a school that neither criticizes a violent man nor gives him a place to develop into a responsible adult. But it cuts even more into the heart at the thought that he, or perhaps my child, or perhaps your mischievous child, will be torn from home and placed on a foster school because the school is unable to cope with children with special needs.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-129	Mr President, I would like to What about such a question? Is that all the Green Party has to come up with in response to what was said? This is where you start talking about children who stand up and small-brews being brought in somewhere. Of course it's not about that! What world does the Green Party live in? Is it a fake world, a construction somewhere, where you wander around and try to find your place? This is about students who obviously disrupt the order of a school. They may be constantly surfing their phones, and when the teacher says so, they begin to throw paper and perhaps push the companion in front of them. They prevent the other students from concentrating and from doing work. That's what makes the teacher have to spend maybe 30 minutes of a 40-minute lesson trying to shut up the students. This world, however, does not see the Green Party. In la-la-land, everything's fine. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-133	Mr President, I would like to Now we have the answer that students who throw paper, look too much in their mobile phone and push a comrade to be forced into the Swedish Democrats emergency schools. This is huge! Patrick Reslow does not answer my question: How little children are to be torn from their parents because they throw papers, look at their mobile phone, or push a companion? The Green Party's response to the fact that we have children who cannot concentrate in the classroom is more present adults and education in neuropsychiatric disabilities for all teachers. Learning about children with special needs and special pedagogy methods must be compulsory in teacher training. The school shall have the necessary resources for each child, whatever the need, to receive the support they need to function in the classroom. Answer my question, Patrick Reslow: How little children are you going to incarcerate?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-137	Mr President, I would like to Forced interning? We don't use that concept. It is strange that people use concepts and blame others for using concepts that are not even included in the budget text. Then it was a question of how small the children should be. I assume that adults do what they do with small children and that there will be no problems. It would be terrible if there were huge problems in a preschool with 3-4 year olds. I assume that we are gradually correcting the situation. But there are classes where there are enormous problems of order, where the teacher is allowed to say constantly but it does not help, where the teacher is neglected, where the teacher does not get the respect he deserves. That's what the students are all about. Then Annika Hirvonen Falk talks about those who throw papers and the like – and constructs a truth based on what I have tried to say. Not only are there blind spots, but it is now also earflaps that shape the policy of the Green Party.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-141	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes when you debate here in the speaker's chair, you wonder what had happened to the members of the Swedish Democrats if their own proposals had been passed. I would like to put a question to Member of Parliament Patrick Reslow about the proposal you have made to abolish the career model and the career stage reform, which the Left Party has long been against and for which we have tabled counter-proposals. What is interesting in the Swedish Democrats' proposal is that it shows that the SD is not only a racist and bourgeois party but also a party that does not know how to make a budget. SD proposes a career model based on development, coordination, mentoring and student performance raising requirements. So are we going to have a model where the only people who get to make a career are the ones who give the highest grades on the kids and the students? What model do we get when we are already in a situation of grading inflation due to a market experiment in which the Swedish Democrats are highly involved, especially after the dinners they had with business representatives before the last election? Should we abolish a model that I think is completely wrong and instead obtain a new model that is aimed at setting higher grades, which provides incentives for higher grade inflation than today? Do the Swedish Democrats really mean that it can be called a draft budget?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-145	Mr President, I would like to It is strange that a member of a committee mocks another Member and says that you do not know how to make a budget. What we can be happy about is that the Left Party budget has never been realised. Then we would have seen problems in this country. People had naturally moved because no one wants to live in a communist state. Is the grades supposed to be in control? No, we are saying that this is an increase in student results. It's not always a question of grades. We now know that Daniel Riazat and the Left are strongly in favour of abolishing any form of assessment at school, especially the grades. It's supposed to be a lulling. You don't get to sort people, or whatever left-wing concepts are always used. But that is not what this is about. Student results can also be other things. For example, when a student leaves comprehensive school, how do you see that the student survives at the basic level of upper secondary school or further at the university? There are many ways to look at the student results. Rating criteria are one thing. National tests are another criterion. We're in favour of these. They work in many other countries. We have looked at Singapore, for example, where career models are used, and they work just fine. And there are other countries that have similar career models. What we know is that few countries apply the first teacher system that now exists in Sweden.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-149	Mr President, I would like to I waited a minute and a half for an answer, but I can see that there is no answer because the Swedish Democrats do not really have a ready-made proposal on the matter. It is just something that has been written in to justify that there is no proposal. I'm going to the next question, because I didn't get the answer to the last one. The next question is about mother tongue education. All researchers in the field agree that native language teaching is extremely important in order to be able to take on the new language Swedish and for the student to be strengthened in other subjects. Nevertheless, the Swedish Democrats choose to reduce their mother tongue education in the municipality by municipality where they run, often together with the Moderates. Some municipalities want to remove this teaching, which goes towards the legislation that exists today. These municipalities have even been notified, and now the issue is going to be a legal matter. Does Patrick Reslow think this goes together with the results of research on native language teaching?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-152	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if there's any point in giving an answer. Daniel Riazat never hears the answers. He always says he didn't get the answer to the question. It doesn't matter what you say– Daniel Riazat always thinks he doesn't get an answer. But now I'm going to give Daniel Riazat an answer. We intend in the municipalities to apply the law as it is written. If there is then a legal process on this – yes, then there will be a legal process and the legislation will be examined. But we apply the law as it is written. So far, we have had no decision other than its proper application. That is my answer to Daniel Riazat, and we intend to continue that work in those municipalities where we have the opportunity to influence and implement the proposals. We shall continue on the trail of applying the rules on mother tongue teaching restrictively in accordance with existing legislation.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-155	Mr President, I would like to From an increasing number of municipalities around the country there is an alarm about an economic crisis. According to the newspaper School World, eight out of ten municipalities have made savings on preschool and school this year. At the same time, seven out of ten municipalities plan to cut further next year. What used to hide behind bureaucratic words, such as efficiency improvements and adjustments, is now open statements and decisions on cuts. When the Minister of Education presented earlier this year what initiatives the government would make on the school system, it sounded like gold and green forests. Many extra billions would be invested. When the government presented its budget, there was one thing that was clear, namely that the investments in municipalities and schools shone with their absence. While Sweden's high income earners received SEK 6 billion in tax cuts, Sweden's 2 million school and preschool children shared an additional investment of over SEK 100 million. While all parties in the Riksdag said they wanted to invest in children of lower ages, the S-led government's budget meant big cuts for this particular group. I am addressing the country's social democrats and S-sympathisers: was this what you voted for? The school is not a municipal activity like everyone else. It is a prerequisite for giving children hope and life opportunities. It is time for the government to open its eyes and see the crisis that is going on in the municipalities. In Kiruna, 50 of the municipality's 75 student assistants have been dismissed. In other municipalities there is also talk of school closures, often in rural areas to concentrate pupils on larger schools in central areas. What all these savings have in common is that they are done to save the economy of municipalities in the short term, not that it would be better for children in school. Similarly, the government's policy has a coherent common thread, or rather a blue thread, which is about continuing with bourgeois parties with the converted Robin Hood policy: more to the country's richest at the expense of preschool, recreation centres and school. This can't be allowed to continue. The Left Party agrees with the conclusion of the research reports, which clearly show that past-age initiatives provide better opportunities for all children to reach their full potential. The Left also agrees with the massive criticism of making major cuts in this strained situation for the country's preschool teachers and primary school teachers, to which the government contributes. That is why we are adding 2.2 billion more to pre-school and 1 billion more to primary school in the Left Party budget for 2020. Mr President, I would like to If we are to have a welfare to rely on in the future, it is time to take the welfare heroes and the heroines seriously. One example of this is the preschool uprising, which with great support among the employees in preschool has sent an alarm signal after an alarm signal and made proposals for changes to improve the working environment and ultimately the children's lives in the Swedish preschool. Smaller groups of children, more teachers per children's group, time for planning and further training on working time and access to special educators and adapted premises are just some of the extremely important proposals put forward. The answer to this must not be further bourgeois policy. Welfare, not least in education and training, is currently suffering from a considerable shortage of staff, which is expected to increase in the next few years. In order to ensure well-being throughout the country, the Left Party therefore proposes a major training effort to secure the supply of personnel, combining paid work with training. The investment we make is financed entirely from state resources, covers a ten-year period and amounts to SEK 50 billion. For example, it is sufficient to train at least 10 000 new teachers, preschool teachers, nurses and sociologists. It is enough to train about 1 000 midwives and 3 000 specialist nurses. All these initiatives are training initiatives worthy of their name. Another important issue is the nutrition that our children and students receive. Sustainable school food will give children and pupils energy to attend preschool and school while helping to change food production to become more sustainable for the climate and the environment. These objectives are not opposites, but they require thought-out and sustainable work from start to finish. Therefore, we want to make an effort on a school food lift that will mean that we switch to more sustainable cooking. It is nearing the end of this year, and school policy is once again on the agenda after the recently published PISA report. It's a report where the results point in the right direction for some students while the school system points in the wrong direction – again. The cuts in the public sector in the early 1990s drained public school resources. The commercialisation of Swedish preschool and school, which started during the same period, and its interconnected reforms continue to lead the school system in the wrong direction. The losers on this, who are they? Yes, it's the kids, the students and the staff. With the large cuts that await the majority of the country's municipalities in the coming years, there is a risk that equivalence and equality will deteriorate further. Yet the government remains silent. Yes to bets at lower ages have been cutbacks at lower ages. Yes, to get rid of the prize hunt just a few years ago has become yes to keeping the prize hunt. Yes to increased equivalence has in practice become yes to increased segregation and reduced equality. That's what happens when you cooperate with right parties. The question of education and knowledge as a right rather than a commodity should be seen in a broader perspective. Basically, it is about the future of democracy. A democratically governed and equal preschool and school, where segregation is broken and where all children and pupils are given equal education, will strengthen our democracy and increase equality in our society. This important task has neither the bourgeois S-led government nor the other bourgeois, conservative or racist parties a solution. I turn to the staff of preschool, recreation centres and school. Thank you for the amazing work you do every day! You deserve better.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-172	Mr President, I would like to I share Daniel Riazats's concern that inequality is still high in Swedish schools. This is perhaps the most important message of the PISA survey to us decision-makers: What parents you have and how many books are on the bookshelf at home are becoming increasingly important to how you are doing at school. For this reason, during his time as Minister of Education, Gustav Fridolin appointed the School Commission, where he brought together researchers and professionals to come up with proposals to meet the structural challenges of Swedish schools. I am pleased that in the January agreement we agree that we should move forward on the path that the School Commission is pointing out. In March, an investigation is presented for equal funding and reduced segregation in Swedish schools. It is crucial if we are to combat inequality and have an equal school. Today, students are sorted according to background. This is due to the segregation of homes, but it is also actually the way in which the school elections today work – or, one might say, do not work – as flaws. I hope that, in broad agreement in this House, we can agree to give priority to these issues during this term of office. We all see the problems. We have also strengthened the equivalence grant in this budget, the money that distributes more to everyone but most to those who need it best, in addition to the EUR 5 billion of general funds that go out to the municipalities.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-178	Mr President, I would like to I am a little confused; I do not really know what to answer, so I am prolonging my speech. But I can comment on what was mentioned about the School Commission and about segregation and equality. It was great that the School Commission was appointed. Some suggestions that came from the School Commission were very good. At the same time, we know that there are certain key issues. Annika Hirvonen Falk talks about how she and the Green Party hope that we all agree and so on. In this case, however, the honourable Member actually represents the government. The question of equivalence and equality is essentially about the extreme privatisation of Swedish schools that we have seen since the 1990s onwards and which is unprecedented in the world. It is about free school elections to comprehensive school, which, according to all serious research, has led to a much worsening of housing segregation, and that it is no longer the main cause of segregation at school. It is also about the school money system. It is about this whole market school system that was set up at some point in the early 1990s. I'm just wondering what kind of responsibility the Green Party takes. Sometimes when the Green Party debates, it's like you're not in the government, and sometimes you are. When it's investments, you're in the government. When equivalence looks like it does, when we have the free school reform we have and when the free school elections lead to segregation, then you sound like you're against it. But you're in the government, so what's the Green Party doing on these issues?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-182	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party takes responsibility by trying to change where we see problems in Swedish schools. During our time with the Ministry of Education, we appointed the School Commission. We added more money and made historical investments in increased teacher salaries and increased equivalence in school. We are now continuing, in the cooperation where we are today, to try to build a more equal school. During the last parliamentary term, we went to Parliament with proposals to limit the possibility of profit withdrawals from schools. It was voted down. We went to the Riksdag with proposals that principals should have an increased responsibility to counteract school segregation. It was voted down. Then we'll have to find new ways. I believe that what is best for Swedish school is that the Riksdag is trying to work to get solutions that can become a reality.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-186	Mr President, I would like to I believe that, too. At the same time, I believe that you should have a will and that as a political party you should have the backbone and not just hold your finger up in the air to see how the wind blows. Political parties have a responsibility to also form opinion and not just follow public opinion. On this issue, of course, we worked together during the last parliamentary term with the Green Party and the Social Democrats, the previous government. Many of the efforts mentioned here have come about through negotiations between the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats. The prize hunt was a requirement for us to even cooperate with the government base of the Green Party. So it wasn't exactly easy to get through. I agree; we will of course work together to get proposals through. I only mean that one should see one's part in the whole when one represents a party that sits in the government, whose system is still the same as the bourgeois government.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-191	Mr President, I would like to The school's main task is to convey knowledge, stimulate students' intellectual development and prepare children and young people for adulthood. The school also has an educational assignment. The school should build on and convey values and virtues that are central to a good life and a good society. The school should train not only people to take a job but also citizens who are involved in taking responsibility. A common ethical basis is important for creating a good environment at school. The school's core values must be integrated into the entire school's activities. Every child should have the opportunity to develop their full potential. We're going to have a school where no one is held back and no one is left behind. Changes should be long-term and create stability, continuity and peace of mind. Being out of school with approved grades is the strongest health factor. It prevents exclusion and crime. The Christian Democrats therefore invest 925 million more than the government in school and education. We are also doing some re-priorities in this area. The teacher is the single most important factor in the student's learning. Students in Swedish schools have fewer teaching hours than the OECD average. In addition, our students have fewer teacher-led lessons. To remedy this, the Christian Democrats spend SEK 260 million a year on giving students more teacher-led teaching time. We want to contribute to more ways into the teaching profession. More unauthorized teachers should be able to supplement grades to get full eligibility, and people with other academic degrees should be able to enter teacher qualifications. Today, many schools lack teachers. The government's billion-dollar investment in teaching assistants is in danger of not being exploited as there are not enough teaching assistants. In addition, there may be a mistake with a specifically identified professional group in schools that already have good staffing. That is why the Christian Democrats instead give 1 billion to more adults in school. We entrust the school management to determine which staff groups or groups are most in need there. Perhaps a retired teacher can strengthen the team so that pupils with special needs can receive additional support. This applies to both those who need a little bigger challenges and can go faster than the classmates and those who need extra support to pass grades. At a school, perhaps, student care needs to be strengthened. On another you can connect the sports movement to the school to stimulate the students to more physical activity on breaks. We know that it leads to greater concentration in classes. All pupils in need of special education should have access to it. The Christian Democrats invest 230 million more than the government in a special teacher's lift, where teachers have the opportunity to supplement their education with 80 percent of their salary in the meantime. We also spend SEK 200 million a year on a competence initiative to get more teachers with competence in Swedish as a second language and to support language development and opportunities for students with Swedish as a second language to reach the knowledge goals. Mr President, I would like to Students who are well learn better. The Christian Democrats provide student health care with SEK 380 million a year. A well-developed pupil health improves the preventive work for physical and mental health. We also want to bring together children's and young people's health and place responsibility with the regions. Children who feel bad should not risk ending up between the chairs. A comprehensive child and youth health system would also increase the accessibility of health centres, pupil health and child and youth psychiatry. It would also work closely with school management, teachers, specialist educators and municipal social services. We also want to introduce a student health guarantee. Every student should be able to get in touch with the student health care every day. Children should know that there are adults who have time for them. However, it also requires a policy that provides parents with support, time and peace for the family and a strong civil society that strengthens the social fabric around our children. It takes a policy for a school where children can go without having a lump in the stomach. Children's well-being and safety at school are crucial to their success in their learning and development. The school law clarifies the student's right to safety and study and not to be subjected to offensive treatment. Even so, many students feel bad every day because they are bullied. Therefore, we Christian Democrats never cease to emphasise the need to work on the ethical basis of a society in which people's equal value and solidarity with the weak and vulnerable are at the centre. The school is responsible for anchoring this foundation of values in the students and translating the ethical principles into practical action. This work also involves the prevention of offensive treatment. It is important that schools use evidence-based methods. In 2011, the National Agency for Education carried out an inventory of evidence-based methods. It is important for the National Agency for Education to follow it up. However, schools should also phase out methods that are not evidence-based. We set aside SEK 95 million for this. On average, three children per class are sexually abused. We allocate SEK 70 million for preventive work against child abuse. It is about training preschool staff and introducing ways of working that inform children about boundaries and strengthen the child's right to his or her own body and the right to say not when something is wrong. We know that students who move develop a stronger physics and perform better in school, which leads to more students meeting the goals. The Christian Democrats want to increase the number of sports hours from 600 today to 700. This is done by reducing the student's choice by the corresponding number of hours. Mr President, I would like to Parents are the most important people for the child. To involve them more in support of the child's schooling, we allocate 60 million a year to special educational gatherings for the parents. The Swedish National Agency for Education points out that children under the age of three should not be in large groups of children. Research shows that the important connection can be damaged and affect the child's trust and ability to concentrate. We want to legislate on the reduction of children's groups in preschool. There should be a maximum of 12 children in groups of young children. We also have a number of other proposals, but since the budget is linked and decided on a single occasion, I am abstaining from making any request or reservation in this debate, but I am referring to the specific opinion of the Christian Democrats.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-211	Mr President, I would like to Now this debate on Category 16, which deals with education and university research, has been going on for a while. N u it is time for us Social Democrats to tell us what we want. This is, of course, a budget report in which we have the opportunity to discuss the whole area of the school, and that is why it is an important debate. In addition, it is divided into two parts, the first dealing with everything from pre-school to adult education and the second with higher education and research. However, we Social Democrats only have this one speech in both parts. I am often asked which areas I think are most important in education policy, and my answer is always the same: Jag thinks that the work for greater equality and greater equality is the most important thing. If we are to achieve the eight, we must work in all policy areas. But they are probably the most important in the field of education, since preschool and school should give a good start in life and adult education and higher education should then enable a good continuation and more chances of life. School and education contribute to the foundation, values and approach towards other people in life. When is school at its best? 中 is another question I get, and my answer is also there always the same: all children are really given the opportunity to be their very best self. We don't always do that. For example, at the last count, nearly 18,000 students did not make it from primary school to upper secondary school. It's a big challenge. For me, preschool is one of the most important reforms for gender equality. Without preschool, women would never have been able to take the amazing step into working life that they have been doing for decades. Preschool is also important for children. Everyone can see what a fantastic phenomenon it is, where you learn language, math, other knowledge and, not least, to be one of the group – skills that are absolutely essential for continuing schooling and as a citizen of society. Preschool is today the first step in the long education chain, and it must be protected. It is therefore important that we continue to invest in reducing children's groups and improving working conditions so that more people remain in the profession and more people want to train to work in preschool. Last term of office the Government appointed the School Commission, a group composed of representatives of research, profession, industry and principals. They worked for two years, first doing solid analysis work, and then agreed on long-term rules of play. They presented a final report on which they essentially agreed. There they said that the distribution of resources must change, that the state needs to contribute more and that socio-economic variables must enter the distribution system in order to provide more equal opportunities. On the basis of this report, several studies have been launched, someone has already been delivered and more are underway in the early spring. The government has also begun its work on managing the distribution system, but more needs to be done. We need to continue the work to strengthen equivalence; it showed not least PISA, who came the other week. First of all, it was a result to rejoice in when it comes to knowledge, which after all has gone up – a great credit to all employees and students at our schools around the country! But PISA also showed, as we have said here before, that equivalence is flawed. More efforts are therefore needed to combat inequalities. An important initiative that is ongoing is Collaboration for the best school, which means that the state and the principals together work for positive school development. It is an initiative that has meant a lot to those schools that have the most difficult and toughest in terms of creating security and learning and achieving the knowledge goals. This is for me an important initiative for an equal school of knowledge. During the year that has passed, I have had discussions with many organisations outside the school that, via collaboration with schools, are doing a fantastic job to contribute to greater equality. It can be about efforts for the five six students in each class who have parents who in different ways do not always succeed in their parenting. It can be about language development work for our newly arrived children and much more. I hope that this cooperation will continue, because I really believe that more professions are needed at school, so that teachers can be teachers in charge of teaching. If we succeed, I also believe that more people want to stay in the profession and that more people want to become teachers, because the lack of teachers is one of our major challenges in the future. That is why it is a good thing that our ministers also continue this term of office with the important work of a national collection for more teachers. Major contributions to the school have taken place since the S-led government took office in 2014. We must continue that work and efforts on welfare. It is therefore gratifying to hear the Prime Minister and my party leader say that all other efforts in the future will be balanced against investments in welfare. For us, the way forward is to continue investing in education and research. Knowledge is what builds Swedish society strong for the future and also what will help solve our societal challenges. We know today that upper secondary education is the entry ticket to working life and that far too many people are unable to get it. We must work to change that. But we must also increase the opportunities for lifelong learning. The time is past when you were trained to be a job for the rest of your life. More will need to change course and build on new skills throughout working life. It must be possible to enter the doors of upper secondary and higher education even later in life. And perhaps you don't even have to go through any doors more than in exceptional cases, but you can do much of your education near your place of residence. A few weeks ago I was in Scotland visiting the University of Highlands and Islands, and I went home inspired. The university that I visited has been around for 13 years, and it does not consist of a building in one town: it consists of 13 campuses and another 70 places of education, where the goal is that no one should have more than 30 km to higher education. Now Scotland looks a little different from Sweden, but still. Then how do they fix this? Well, by using our new – perhaps not so new anymore – technology, i.e. digitalisation. Well, maybe someone who listens now thinks, then the quality becomes then. That's right: 69% of their research is world-leading or excellent. It is clearly possible to work in ways other than traditional ones. I follow with great excitement what is happening on this issue in our country, where above all the University of West and Campus Västervik leads the way through its Vinnova-supported project New Roads. If the whole of Sweden is to live and develop, you must be able to study with reasonable distance. You shouldn't have to move to get access to higher education – that should be the goal of all parties. And if we are to succeed in this, we need to make even stronger demands for collaboration in the future – not only between those who traditionally work together, but we also need to think about which more actors need to be involved. The government is in the middle of developing a new research bill. V i are many in here who spend the days attending various meetings and seminars towards it, or we are reading all the thousands of pages with recordings that have come. Many are the proposals and the wills, and they do not always point in the same direction. But I believe and hope that we realise that it is important that we eventually, regardless of political colour, agree on the direction ahead in order to provide clear and clear rules of play in future research proposals. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-229	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat and I agree on one thing. I would like to reiterate what Mr Daniel has already mentioned in her speech, namely: how can Gunilla Svantorp talk about large contributions and investments in a school budget when we have a school budget of over 83 billion and the Social Democrats spend about 100 million? This does not even correspond to price and salary compensation. How can there be a big investment, a big addition and an investment, Gunilla Svantorp? Mr President, I would like to Then I have another question. A good friend, Elisabet, usually says that it would be a challenge if she and I were to decide to ride Vasaloppet in the spring. It would require some training, and we would have to spend some time, but it would probably – perhaps – go. Gunilla Svantorp uses the figure 17 600 for those students who do not qualify for the national programmes in high school – I'm talking about 24 700. When will Gunilla Svantorp admit that this is a failure and that it is not just a challenge but a problem that requires proposals for decisions? Since I entered the Education Committee, there has not been a single concrete proposal to improve for children in school or to remedy the lack of teachers. When will Gunilla Svantorp admit that it is not just a challenge but that it is actually a problem?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-231	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Kristina Axén Olin you can get the impression that the Riksdag started when Kristina Axén Olin entered the Riksdag. That's not really the case. There was also a life before Kristina Axén Olin came here. It started, at least when I talk about what we have invested in, when the Social Democrats together with the Green Party took over the government power after eight years with Fredrik Reinfeldt. Then we could really start investing in greater equivalence. There's work going on. Now someone lifts out a year and says that we are completely failed. The person who does is a person whose party actually takes nearly SEK 2 billion from the budget. The person says, "But you're only betting 100 million." We invest 5 billion in increased general contributions to all our municipalities. We have just voted in this House for the municipalities that are the toughest in the world to get a little more money. We'll bet a lot of money. Then it is up to the local politicians to ensure that this is distributed from the perspective of equality and gender equality, as I hope they will. When we had our line round before, I asked Kristina Axén Olin about her solutions to the equivalence challenge. No one here has received an answer to that question. But I will answer Kristina Axén Olin's question about the 17 600. Of course, you can turn around with the number 24 000, but it is they who have a subject that they may not have succeeded in doing. The about 17,000 are those who do not make it to high school. It's a huge challenge. I also think it's a huge failure. But this is not something that started when Kristina Axén Olin entered the Riksdag. There were also during the eight years that Fredrik Reinfeldt led the government.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-237	Mr President, I would like to I asked Gunilla Svantorp about the 17 600 students who did not qualify for upper secondary school and who did not enter upper secondary school. I understand from Gunilla Svantorp that proposals have been made before I entered the Riksdag. I sincerely hope that has been done. But it is still the case, Gunilla Svantorp, that there has been no improvement. The curves are going the wrong way. More and more children are not getting full grades. There are fewer and fewer teachers. There are fewer applicants for some of the teacher training courses, and half of them are not up to date. You've been in government since 2014 – it's been five years – and there's been no improvement. Surely, then, we must accept that perhaps it is time to put forward other proposals or to change something in our policies. If nothing has improved in five years, but it only gets worse and worse, then you can't just talk about a challenge and not put forward concrete proposals for decisions. At least I don't think that's a leadership that works.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-239	Mr President, I would like to One gets a little curious about where Kristina Axén Olin has been during these five years. She has not been here in Parliament, but she must have gone along and seen what happened. In fact, we have had a great challenge. There have been a lot of children at our Swedish school who were not there before. We have a great challenge. It is clear that our goal is for all children to be exactly what I just said: their very best in school. But you don't fix things that fast. The challenge has existed for many years. When Kristina Axén Olin's moderates ruled the country, we had exactly the same challenge. I think it is rather rude to stand and say that nothing has happened at all during this parliamentary term, because we have set up a lot of investigations that hopefully will soon come up with a lot of proposals. When the good proposals come, it will be very interesting to see if Kristina Axén Olin says: Yes, well, we intend to support this.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-242	Mr President, I would like to It is always exciting with unexpected support from unexpected quarters. However, I would like to point out that when I criticise the Social Democrats, I do so because I expect something from them. I don't do that with the Moderates. I would like to ask Gunilla Svantorp a question about the funding and why they have chosen to remove money from children of lower ages and invest it in children of higher ages. After all, we all agree in this House, at least in theory, that early initiatives are very important and have a major impact on whether students later in their learning and schooling will be able to achieve their full potential or not. It is very regrettable when you see this budget. As I mentioned in my speech, the budget presented by the government with C and L shows that those who are high income earners in our society continue to receive tax reductions. At the same time, school resources are redistributed from children of lower ages to children of higher ages. I just wonder how that logic goes with Social Democratic politics. It may be that the Government or the Minister for Education has very good reasons for not being here, but I would nevertheless like to criticise the fact that we do not have a minister in place when we have the biggest debate this year. However, I would like answers to the budget question.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-247	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Daniel Riazat of the Left very well knows what we in the Social Democrats want with our policy. Daniel Riazat said earlier that it takes the will and backbone of a party and that you have to form an opinion and not just follow public opinion. I fully agree with that, but it must also be possible to compromise if we are to make progress in a political situation such as we currently have in this House. Actually, it's over 60% that's not on my side or yours. We must then be able to compromise, and that is what we have done with the January agreement. We have got a lot in the January agreement that I am proud and happy about. Then we have had to agree to things that I am less proud and happy about. Your specific question is about the low-level venture. It is now incorporated into the equivalence premium. One important reason for this is that, as the School Commission said, we want to put a more socio-economic mark on this, so that it really goes to the right children and the right schools. The low school initiative has been very good, but now we make sure that it comes to the schools that have the toughest challenges. That's an answer to your question. I would also like to say something else, because I have some time left. As far as the January agreement is concerned, we can highlight what is bad from the point of view of social democrats and left-wing parties. But you also have to look at what is positive for Swedish school. And these are the points that are about more resources being added to those who have the greatest challenges. The Left Party can't be against that, can it?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-252	Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party are also used to compromise. Throughout the last parliamentary term, we had to compromise. When the Left Party proposed 10 billion for one welfare reform, the sossies said no, and it was perhaps 5 in the end. We know how to compromise. If, in this case, you compare the previous term of office with this term of office, it is interesting that you compromised with the Left Party last term. There we wanted to get bigger bets. You resisted quite a lot, but we still got a lot through. Right now Gunilla Svantorp means that you stand for what both our parties stand for. Where do the Social Democrats really stand on these issues? I didn't just mean the first-stage venture. Now I think it is completely wrong, like the union and many others who have criticised you very much. I also mean the maximum rate in preschool and what's being removed. How is it that those billions have been removed?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-255	Mr President, I would like to I need to repeat what I said earlier. Of course you can wish you were in certain situations. Now we are not in the position to wish that we would cooperate with it or with it. The situation looks like it does. It is good that we have broken the block policy. I believe very much in the January agreement and that we can reach an agreement there. However, it is parties that take responsibility and that have written together many good points. Then there are less good points. But we're gonna get along and make the best of it. One might wish we had the position we had in the last parliamentary term, but we do not. That is why we have had to give and take both when it comes to investments, which Daniel Riazat is asking for, and when it comes to withdrawing certain investments that we made last parliamentary term. That's what compromises do. You have to give and take.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-258	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Svantorp said in her speech that preschool is the most important of all. Perhaps I myself would not separate one form of education and put it before the other. All links in the education chain are important. It is primary school, secondary school, universities and colleges. It's a long training chain that we're looking at. I agree that preschool is important. That is where we lay the foundations and create security. If preschool doesn't work, we'll have problems later in the chain. That's why I'm a little surprised when I read the budget. If you now stand here and say that preschool is the most important of all, why do you choose to cut the grant for preschool? If you consider preschool to be the most important of all, why do the Social Democrats choose to cut 692 million from the envelope 1:7, i.e. the grant for preschool? Is it creating good conditions for preschool? It's hard to see what line you're taking. On the one hand, it is said that preschool is the most important of all, on the other hand, it lowers funding to the extent that it considers most important. Gunilla Svantorp is welcome to explain this.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-262	Mr President, I would like to One can, of course, base one's line on saying that I have said something that I have not said. I can read again what began with. For me, preschool is one of the most important reforms for gender equality. Without preschool, women would never have been able to take the amazing step out into the workplace knowing and so on. That's what I said literally, and nothing else. Preschool is very important. At all, as I have said, we are investing a great deal of money in increasing equality and equivalence in Swedish schools. At our previous line shift, I just asked Patrick Reslow questions about his path to increased equivalence. I didn't get an answer then. I choose to ask that question one more time. In Patrick Patrick's speech and in the Swedish Democrats' motion, there is an infinite amount of effort to be made on all sorts of things. But I do not see a word about increased equivalence and no effort to increase equivalence. How does Patrick Reslow intend to increase equivalence so that the children who have the greatest challenges in our school also get the most resources? I'm going to take this opportunity to ask you another question. For me as a social democrat, the school is our foremost knowledge and education institution. It's not a market any day. The SD says, as soon as I hear them, always want to bet on welfare all the time. Yet you say all right to the market system that exists within the school, where you can pick out money anyway from the welfare that you say you care about. I would like to hear Patrick Reslow develop a little bit how, according to the Swedish Democrats' view, the market system contributes to the development of the Swedish school.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-267	Mr President, I would like to Last time I checked, this was a change of line at Gunilla Svantorp's speech. Now Gunilla Svantorp is trying to make it a change of line in my previous speech. Gunilla Svantorp has had the opportunity to ask questions, and she also got answers to them. I note that I do not receive an answer. We can check the protocol later. It was not in the introduction but a little later in Gunilla Svantorp's speech that she said that preschool is the most important of all. Still, 700 million dollars are being cut. That is a good and clear signal from the Social Democrats. Preschools are most important when discussing school policy. But when it comes to practice, it is not as important. When it comes to investing in welfare, we are in favour of freedom of choice. We think it's better for parents and students to choose which schools the students want to go to, instead of Gunilla Svantorp and her colleagues choosing it for them.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-271	Mr President, I would like to Again, Patrick Reslow puts words in my mouth and says that we would not be in favour of freedom of choice. Of course we are in favour of freedom of choice. What we're not for is that the money doesn't go to welfare. That's what I asked you a question about. I can't put it back again. I only note that the Swedish Democrats are very good at saying one thing in the speaker's chair, and then when they are going to vote and press the button in this room, it is about following bourgeois politics and giving more money to tax cuts than to welfare. That's a real shame. Everyone who votes for the Swedish Democrats should know that this is the case.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-273	Mr President, I would like to We are today debating the state budget for next year, 2020, focusing on Category 16, Education and university research. These are incredibly important areas for strengthening Sweden as a knowledge nation, equalising life chances and achieving sustainable development. In the budget as a whole, the Center Party has had an impact on many important reforms to make it pay more for people to work more. It is a matter of ensuring that the costs of hiring those who are far removed from the labour market are reduced. In this way, we contribute to a better economy and better conditions in the long term to be able to have a good welfare. The budget agreed between the Center Party and the Government and the Liberals takes very many good and important steps for Swedish school and Sweden as a knowledge nation. Two weeks ago, the PISA results were presented. We are now back at 2006 levels when it comes to knowledge results in reading comprehension, mathematics and science. It is above all a merit for all students, teachers and principals who work in Swedish schools. But it also shows that the reforms and steps taken even during the Alliance's time with increased focus on knowledge and on the importance of early intervention are the right step along the way. When discussing Swedish school, a rather dark picture is often painted. It is important to point out that many students are met by a good school and enjoy schooling. At the same time, major challenges remain. Nearly every sixth student leaves comprehensive school without eligibility for a national upper secondary school programme. Too many people experience insecurity and lack of education in the Swedish school. Almost every fourth student leaves high school without a degree. We can also see in the new PISA study that although equivalence does not deteriorate, it remains. We have worse averages than the other Nordic countries. Swedish school has in recent years been faced with growing problems with increased student litters, lack of teachers and many newly arrived students. In order to strengthen equivalence, resources need to be allocated more according to needs in order for teachers to be where the children with the greatest needs are. With this budget, we are also taking an important step in terms of efforts for fewer targeted state subsidies, while at the same time increasing general state subsidies. We are putting together more money for the so-called equivalence grant. In the equivalence grant, we also ensure that the cost condition, which has been quite criticised, is removed so that the money will better get to where it is needed and make use of the pupils, teachers and principals who are out there in schools. Madam President, I would like In order to equalize life chances, a good preschool is incredibly important, as is the high quality of preschool. The children who benefit most from a high-quality preschool are those with the most difficult conditions. The effort to strengthen the language development of Swedish, especially for children who have a different daily social language at home, is an important step. The support that can be provided for actions aimed at increasing participation in preschool, strengthening language development efforts and developing the skills of preschool staff is an important step in the right direction. When it comes to strengthening knowledge and increasing equivalence in primary and secondary education, the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, is taking several steps in the right direction in this budget. The Swedish National Agency for Education receives funds to prepare for the introduction of subject grades. The focus on science and technology for all is extended. We'll make sure there's more teaching assistants. The equivalent contribution amounts to EUR 4.9 billion in 2020 and then reaches EUR 6.2 billion in 2021. More resources are provided for the digitisation of national tests and also for strengthening digital services for guidance on study and careers, so that more students have better opportunities to make wise choices. Madam President, I would like One of the big challenges of our time is to get more teachers in Swedish schools. The Swedish National Agency for Education's latest forecast shows that in about 15 years there will be a lack of 45 000 teachers in Swedish schools. In order to get more people to want to become teachers, efforts are needed for those who currently exist in Swedish schools. There should be better skills development opportunities for teachers, preschool teachers and principals. It is therefore a good thing that the first steps to introduce a professional programme are now being taken with this budget. Efforts are also being made for further training, so that the unauthorized teachers who currently exist in Swedish schools and have been there for a long time will be able to become qualified and qualified teachers. There are a number of other training activities in schools that are also continuing in this budget. The training initiative Special education for learning is extended, for example, as well as the investment in qualification training for vocational teachers. There is also an investment in the further training of principals, which is permanent at 20 million and is extended so that principals in preschool and assistant principals can also take part in the further education. In addition, thanks to the January agreement, we have set up a study to ensure that the teacher training that currently exists is strengthened with more teacher-led hours and more focus on subject education and methodology. It is about teacher training to provide better conditions. We are thus strengthening the teachers that exist today, with better opportunities for skills development, but also ensuring that more people apply to the teaching profession. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight higher education and research, as I am the Centre Party's only representative in today's educational debate. Strengthening Sweden as a knowledge nation is crucial for our future growth and for the opportunity for more people to take part in that growth, which gives us more resources to invest in our common welfare. In the budget we are discussing today, it is very positive that the technological leap that has been a way of recruiting women in particular and newcomers to the technology professions has been extended in terms of resources. There is an investment in distance learning in higher education so that more can be met by high-quality higher education throughout the country. More short courses are being invested in the university of applied sciences, which is very important for the possibility to reset, and 550 million are being added to universities for an investment in research as a result of the research policy proposal that was presented in 2016. In addition, the resources for Swedish space research are increased, which is important for Sweden to be able to participate in European collaborations. A little outside this area is the extension of the R & D deduction, i.e. the deduction for companies investing in research and development. It is important to increase private investment in research and development in order to strengthen us as a knowledge nation, and I am therefore pleased that this budget contains proposals in this area. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-289	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training. Despite the glow of light we see in the school political sky, there are still major challenges, as well as problems that concern us. These problems should concern all responsible school politicians in this House and not least those who in the country's municipalities are still principals in Swedish school systems, from preschool up to adult education. By the spring of 2019, the proportion of eligible pupils had decreased among all pupils, regardless of their background and regardless of their parents' level of education. The difference between schools is increasing; we have schools where 100% of pupils are eligible for upper secondary school and schools where 33% are eligible for upper secondary school national programmes. This is an extremely worrying development which requires further school policy reforms, Madam President. There is a need not only for economic reforms but also for reforms that improve the quality and throughput of Swedish schools. Unfortunately, after a few years of upsurge, we also see a decrease in teacher density. We have a lower percentage of teachers with an educational degree. There are scenarios – images – that show that in ten years' time we can be in a situation where 10 per cent of the full-time employees in the country's schools have an education corresponding to only primary or upper secondary level. We have continued problems with schooling and with a lack of respect for Sweden's teachers, both from students and not least from many parents to students. There are also major differences in access to trained, qualified teachers between and within the country's schools. The demands of liberals for decades, the renationalisation of schools and the introduction of state authority, are more topical than ever. We have a lack of equivalence, a lack of quality, a lack of ambition, a lack of diversity and a lack of access to educational, trained teachers – which is by far the most important factor in raising the status of teachers and improving the quality and performance of teaching. It is important to have a high-quality preschool. When I'm out visiting preschools, there's one point that repeatedly dominates the contributions I get with me, and that's the size of the children's groups. There is no other issue that engages child care workers and pre-colleagues around the country as much in terms of the working environment and the conditions under which they work. It doesn't matter which majority leads that particular municipality, and it doesn't matter what the National Agency for Education and the Prime Minister say – we from politics have to go down at the level of children's groups to really find out what their reality is. Not all are visible in the national official statistics. It is important that we recognise this: at national level, there may be marginal declines or upsurges, but the lion's share of pre-school teachers and, not least, childcare workers I meet do not recognise themselves in these national figures. We must take this on board, because we must have the most accurate basis at national level. The primary school has several people involved. It is the most important part to get the basic knowledge in reading, counting and writing and for students to be able to leave the compulsory nine-year-old school and move on to upper secondary school. In the spring, 84.3 per cent were qualified for upper secondary school, but only 75 per cent were approved for all subjects in primary school. That's less than the year before. It has been mentioned that 17 600 students were not eligible for upper secondary school. I am surprised that almost no one has talked about upper secondary school, but it is extremely central. Introduction programs are growing. Language induction is growing. Unfortunately, the old so-called individual program continues to grow again. It's not just about students entering high school, but they also have to get out of high school with an approved education. Despite a slight increase in the level of higher education programmes, we see that the share of pupils leaving vocational upper secondary education programmes with a complete qualification is falling for the first time since the 2011 upper secondary school reform. I am particularly concerned, Madam President, about major programmes such as the Automotive and Transport Programme and the Health and Social Care Programme, where the flow of data and the number of approved results and degrees achieved are falling sharply. This is also happening at a time when the most important competence that many industries require is upper secondary vocational education. This requires further reforms, continuing to invest in vocational training and apprenticeships, and continuing to invest in professional apprentices and cooperation in the sector in order to get these pupils out. Reforms are needed to restore the status of the teaching profession. In Sweden, the status of the teaching profession is very low. This becomes particularly clear, Madam President, when we compare ourselves with the OECD countries. Then we are far down on the scale, while other countries are high up. It is a sign and a signal that something is not right in this society, which does not value the teaching profession sufficiently. The status of the teaching profession is not only about salaries, career opportunities, continuing education or the working environment, but also about respect for Sweden's teachers. I can take an example from when I visited Storvretskolan in Botkyrka municipality. In particular, I would like to send a greeting, Madam President, to Mrs Lillemor and Mrs Susanne. They run this school, which in seven months has succeeded in what no one thought they could succeed in. Through their skills and leadership, through their presence and just because they were in place, they managed to turn the mess around, lack of respect, violence and threats to teachers and a situation where students totally ignored the rules of order and everything the adults told them to start talking about grades, tests and the knowledge mission – about the core of school. I would like to congratulate them. They must feel our respect and support for what they do with their fellow teachers and school staff. Finally, in order to strengthen studies, we need to review the School Inspectorate. We need to dismantle the Children's and Student's representative in its current form. We must continue to invest in teacher training through the Teacher Lift. We must also adopt a national plan to attract back the 40 000 teachers who have left the profession. With qualified and trained teachers and good leadership, we can reverse developments in quality and performance in school.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-305	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Roger Haddad agrees with many of the things I described in my speech, such as the fact that every fourth child leaves comprehensive school without a full grade and that we have fewer qualified teachers today than a few years ago and than last year. Today, 71% of our primary school teachers are eligible. In preschool, 43% of the employees are qualified, which is 2% lower than last year. At leisure homes, only 37 per cent of the staff have an educational degree. Worst of all, it is in primary school, the form of school that perhaps most of all needs trained staff. There, only 25 – 35 percent are qualified to work as a teacher. SCB presented statistics on bullying in October. In 2014, 12.6 per cent of our children in comprehensive school felt that they had been bullied. Today, 19.4 percent– almost every fifth student– claims to have been bullied. Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad and I are in complete agreement on the problem of school. I have one question for Roger Haddad, given that Roger Haddad's party has been in charge with the Social Democrats since the elections a year ago. We have not received a single concrete proposal to remedy the shortage of teachers or the problems of teacher training, to improve for children in school or to prevent bullying. Not a single suggestion, Roger Haddad! When are the proposals coming? When will all the solutions to the problems Roger Haddad sees in Swedish school?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-310	Madam President, I would like It is not true that we have been in government for a year. A so-called January agreement was concluded at the end of January 2019. I would also like to note that Kristina Axén Olin came to our committee in this connection. The new government that took office has concluded an agreement – or in this case a January agreement – where the lion's share of the school points comes directly from the Liberals' school policy programme. This applies, for example, to the possibility of moving and relocating students. This also applies to the latest investigation proposal that the state should not only be able to withdraw the condition of bad free schools, but also to go in and close down municipal schools. Then there are proposals that do not pass the Riksdag. It is possible to give a commission through the budget but also through the regulation letter to the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate, for example as regards how to become better at reviewing operations. There has been an announcement about the School Inspectorate, which I hope will be included in the regulatory letter, that cases should be closed properly to ensure that the shortcomings detected are indeed rectified before a case is closed. There are several instruments, such as the equivalence billions and the teaching assistant money. There are things already going on. But regardless of which government is in power – and this is my ninth year as a Member of Parliament – some legislative changes must be prepared by an investigation. They will then return to Parliament in the form of a bill. I look forward to a great many liberal reforms, and I assume that Kristina Axén Olin will support them.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-315	Madam President, I would like The announcement to give the School Inspectorate a clearer mandate to follow-up after inspections was made by us Moderates, but it was a pleasure that there was full agreement in committee on those parts. Of course, it has not been as much as a year, but it is still the case that Roger Haddad's party belongs to the government base and has put forward the draft budget that has now been passed. In this budget, which covers more than 83 billion, you have agreed to what was presented as a major venture of 100 million. But, Roger Haddad, 100 million does not even match the price and salary compensation! On the contrary, the Social Democrats' budget, with the agreement of the Center Party and the Liberals, means a reduction to school. I still wonder, Madam President, where are the proposals? When will there be a concrete budget that will bring improvements to Swedish school?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-318	Madam President, I would like I guess I didn't have the highest grades in mathematics, but I know enough to know that we are spending at least a few billion more than the Moderates and Kristina Axén Olin in the education budget that the Education Committee is going to decide tomorrow: 2 billion more than the Moderates. The tables in this budget base say minus 1.9 billion. That's what the Moderates send to all school operations. It's rude that the Moderates don't stick to the facts. With regard to future proposals and proposals, nothing deviates from what Kristina Olin has said in this House or in the media in any way from the proposals that my party, which you have supported for 25 years, has been pursuing, and we will continue to pursue them. And unlike the Moderates, we have got it into the January Agreement, so it will become a reality.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-321	Madam President, I would like It was very little I could object to. I was almost able to check the proposals made by Roger Haddad in our own programme, and that is to be welcomed. That is precisely why it is less gratifying that Roger Haddad has chosen to support a government that we know has completely different input values for the school than the input values we now hear and which we all know Roger Haddad has always had. Does it not bother you, Roger Haddad, to cooperate with a government that for so many years has contributed to school development that has not been favorable? And what opportunities does Roger Haddad think the Liberals, as a small party, have to influence the great power party to change its role? Does not Roger Haddad see any problem in working with a government that, after all, chooses a different path and has a different view of school policy than Roger Haddad and his party?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-323	Madam President, I would like This is as far away from the Committee on Education's budget debate as can be achieved. But out of respect for Patrick Reslow, I'll answer the question. We went to elections on a bourgeois alliance government, which unfortunately was not the case after the voters had said what they wanted, and maintained what we had said before the elections, namely that we did not intend to contribute to releasing a government that is dependent on the Swedish Democrats. We just confirmed our promise before the election. I assume that Patrick Reslow has read the January Agreement, where the lion's share of the school policy points comes from the Liberals. We may be a party that had just over 5% in the election last time. However, as far as school and education policy is concerned, I think we have a respectful dialogue with the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Center Party. Although it says about state authority in the January agreement, I know that the Social Democrats and the Center Party are not in favour of state authority, but now we Liberals have got that point in place. This means that a decision-making document will be produced, which we agree on. Then we will have to go to the House, or how we are going to process the matter further in order to achieve our political objectives. As our party leader Nyamko Sabuni has said, it is too early for a little over six months after that to start distancing. After all, we have nothing to evaluate yet, because it has been so short from the time we concluded the agreement to the fact that we have now begun the important work.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-327	Madam President, I would like There is, of course, a link to the budget debate, so this is not as far from being possible, as Roger Haddad says it is. Joining a government and its objectives will also have consequences for a budget. And I find it difficult to make a comparison between what is being put forward in the budget and what Roger Haddad is saying here in the speaker's chair. It is possible that the Liberals have the view that it is better to wait, to wait for investigations and then see what you get out of it. But I think that the very best thing for the Liberals would have been to get along with the parties that have a similar position – there are more in this House who have it – so that we could quickly implement strong reforms and not have a school policy in our luggage that leads somewhere we don't want to go. The question therefore remains: does Roger Haddad not see problems in cooperating, also in terms of the budget, with a government that has a completely different starting point for school policy than the Liberals?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-330	Madam President, I would like I would rather represent a line and a budget that does not cut EUR 2.6 billion on teachers' salaries and EUR 3 billion on the contribution to greater equivalence, which is intended precisely to uproot and support those municipalities that are in the most difficult and not least socio-economically tough. Madam President, I would like When Liberals' reform proposals for ten-year primary school, compulsory language preschool, increased and strengthened demands on teacher education and increased powers for Swedish teachers, which we have received in the January agreement, come to Parliament, I assume that the Swedish Democrats will approve our proposals.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-332	Madam President, I would like More students are learning more. The results of the 2018 PISA survey are a work victory for Sweden's students and teachers and something that many have celebrated in recent weeks. In measurement after measurement we now see how the development in school progresses. Boys read better, fourth graders have more interest in mathematics, teachers' status increases and 15-year-olds' knowledge in science, reading comprehension and mathematics has improved. At the same time, the results also turn up in schools throughout our country that have taken on many new classmates with escape, war and persecution in their luggage. It is gratifying and important for the children and students and for Sweden's future. But, Madam President, it is not going better for everyone. The parents you have are playing an increasingly important role in your ability to get through school. The differences between schools are large, and they increase when children are sorted according to background. Perhaps the most important message of the PISA survey to us politicians is that inequality in school persists. Madam President, I would like Children who don't have many books on the bookshelf make it tougher to pass school. Our political answer must therefore be that we guarantee that all schools have school libraries and librarians who know which books will keep your child awake in secret with the reading light on. We know that some children need more support in order to concentrate rather than disturb others. That is why we are investing more resources in schools that have more children with few books in book shelves and a socio-economically difficult background. Therefore, we make sure to increase the knowledge of all teachers about neuropsychiatric disabilities and to make it compulsory for teacher training. Madam President, I would like We know that the person who has stomach pain has more difficulty focusing on what the teacher draws on the board. A well-functioning pupil health is therefore not only important for children who feel bad to receive help. A well-functioning student health is a key element for the school to meet its knowledge goals. During today's debate, several have talked about those children who have a little more running in their legs – children who are full of thoughts and creativity and have a mischievous look in their eyes, a look that may be a little too often looking a little further away than the blackboard. These children have great potential that we must seize. With errors and too little resources, the mischievous glimpse in the eye risks being completely extinguished and the creativity to be replaced by indifference or, at worst, destructiveness. We must have a school that takes care of these children too. They are part of society and will continue to be as adults. How we treat them today will play a role in what society we will have in the future. In this way, school policy is also very much a policy for which future society we want. If students don't meet in the classroom regardless of background and circumstances, we get a society where adults don't know each other and where trust will decrease. School segregation is therefore our greatest challenge. We have parties that on point after point want to increase school segregation and with surgical precision select those students who have the greatest need to meet the Swedish language and separate them from classmates who speak Swedish. Madam President, I would like The most important factor for students to pass school is competent teachers. Teachers' professional development has had to stand back for a number of years. School ministers have made reforms – career services during Liberals' time and teacher's salary boost during the time of the Green Party – but now we need to take a concerted approach to teachers' professional development. I am therefore pleased that professional programmes for teachers and principals are a point in the January agreement. It is this system that we will build and link career positions, teacher's salary and other efforts to so that we can increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession and increase the quality of all the already skilled teachers that exist today. I believe that this is an important measure to make more people choose to remain in the teaching profession. Madam President, I would like The spokesperson of the Green Party for higher education and research, Mats Berglund, will explain our position in the parts of the report that concern this. I support the committee's proposal and the government's budget, in which we increase the funding for a more equal school.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-347	Madam President, I would like The importance of education issues has been demonstrated by all speeches and lines. We do not always agree, but we agree that they are important for the development of society. In order for people to be able to study at college and perhaps research further, good preschool, good primary school, good upper secondary school and good adult education are required. There are currently more than 400 000 students at Sweden's higher education institutions, and 76 000 are employed there. It is therefore a large and important area. I know from previous university studies and research that it is an interesting, demanding and, above all, rewarding time that needs to be protected. Madam President, I would like 2019 has been characterised by the resource allocation inquiry, Strut, and next year will be a research proposal, as has been mentioned earlier. These are important issues that affect the whole world of higher education and research, and we have met many different inputs and representatives. This is crucial for our future in this world. We like to see collaboration between different universities. For example, I visited Linnaeus University, which is a merger of the University of Kalmar and Växjö University. A great deal is being invested in joint training efforts and, at the moment, in the training of teachers in digitalisation and leadership. In the Government's goal, it states that education and research at universities and higher education institutions should be of a high international standard and be carried out effectively. We agree with the government, but we take higher altitudes and want excellent research of the highest quality and more efficiency. It may sound like semantics, but it's about giving important signals. We cannot stand by because progress is fast and we are quickly passed by. That is why we must invest in this. The Government's proposals do not place much emphasis on innovation. But research and innovation are important and lead to change and development in society. Government investment is important, but also private investment in R & D, and it has unfortunately decreased. We must therefore make research more attractive to entrepreneurs and industry. When the Alliance ruled, a premium of 300 million was introduced for the excellent research. This money was phased out by the S-government, but we want to reintroduce this effort. We must keep up with developments and be able to attract students from Europe, and Swedish students must be able to read in Europe. We also need to invest more in distance learning. We need to get new knowledge from students and professors from other countries and constantly improve quality. Swedish research is of high quality, but unfortunately many European countries go beyond us in terms of submitted research papers and citations. This is why we need to speed up the pace. Madam President, I would like The Moderates believe that it is important that basic research is of the highest quality and that it continues to be supported and promoted. Therefore, we propose that the Swedish Research Council's research resources increase by SEK 150 million over the next three years. Instead, the Government has proposed to reduce the grant to the Swedish Research Council by 150 million, which would of course be fatal. As far as space research is concerned, there are major investments and long lead times. Therefore, a little longer budget periods would be needed. We want to invest EUR 150 million in space research, also in order to retain the 12 000 jobs in space research. Of them there are 6 000 in West Sweden and a part in Kiruna. When the EU countries met in Brussels two weeks ago, on 29 November, all the ministers for research and space met. Among other things, there was talk of a sustainable Arctic, in which Sweden is involved. There was also talk of promoting space economy and digital transformation for the climate, i.e. how we should manage the climate and follow it with satellites. Furthermore, there was talk of the design of Horizon Europe, which is Europe's Framework Programme for Research and Innovation 2021 – 2027. Here it is important that we stay ahead, otherwise we will easily be overtaken. That I point this out all the time is because I'm worried that we think we're good enough. We're good, but we have to stick to each other all the time. Higher education requires good means of study, and we will debate this the day after tomorrow. I want to continue to be proud of Sweden and our universities and colleges. That is why a moderate budget is needed.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-362	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have no claim but refer to their particular opinion. Madam President, I would like Many actors, both politicians and others, speak of the need to invest in excellence in higher education. But it's not enough just to talk about it. For this to become a reality, a policy must be pursued that will lead to it. I read in a report from UKÄ, referred to by Jusek this year, that Swedish university students have the least teacher-led teaching time in Europe and only half of what students in, for example, Poland, Switzerland and Denmark have. This does not guarantee excellence, on the contrary. The Swedish Democrats spend almost 1 billion more than the government on higher education and research. Among other things, we remove the productivity reduction and give it the sum to the higher education institutions, precisely in order to increase the amount of teacher-led teaching – one that we mean directly quality-enhancing measures. In addition to this, we invest SEK 250 million to further increase the proportion of teacher-led teaching time. Someone mentioned space. There we are also investing more, 300 million more. It produces enormous spinoff effects for the entire industry and also in the higher education field. This money is probably not enough for Sweden to catch up with Poland and Switzerland in terms of the level of teacher-led teaching time; let us be honest with that. Another aspect of this is that we cannot just increase the number of places of study and put all the resources on it while the quality of education suffers. No, instead of increasing the number of study places as a one-sided goal, we should ensure the quality of our education, and at the same time we can take the opportunity to build enough student housing so that students can have a roof over their heads when the autumn semester begins. While safeguarding academic freedom, we must ask ourselves how resources for the university world are used. The task of decision-making politicians is to optimise systems, such as application procedures and allocation of resources, without restricting academic freedom. I am distressed when I read the list of grants granted by the Swedish Research Council this year. It is as if the researchers know which topics are giving grants, which then comes true when decisions are taken. I wonder how much new, interesting thoughts come out of the money we put here. In any case, the social problems we politicians and the media describe are not rewarded as the most serious. I think it's appropriate with a quote from Erik Ringmar, doctor of political science, here: and time after time Swedish political scientists' research proves that peace is better than war, that democracy is better than oppression... That trivialities then combined with quotations from various French philosophers only makes things worse. ..................................................... Our universities have many tasks, but the main one I think is to teach students to think. In high school, facts are the most important, but absolutely no development will take place without thinking people. A thinking person accepts no facts or opinions without first critically testing them. If we teach our students to think, we don't have to worry about fake news. You can be absolutely sure of that. Are our universities fulfilling this task today? Well, I'm thinking about when Richard Jomshof was invited to the University of Gothenburg to give a lecture. The reactions of some academics quickly indicated that they believed that the universityJimmie task was to protect the students from The university's task is not to protect the students from a few steps, but to teach them to critically test all the facts and opinions themselves – preferably also to be able to distinguish between facts and opinions, although it may be over-course. Those academics who reacted by trying to shut out Jomshof from the lecture have not understood what the essence and mission of the academy consists of – sad! In view of Jomshof and the University of Gothenburg, I want to round off with another quote from the previously mentioned left academicist Ringmar – he himself says that he belongs to the left with emphasis: Today the left is definitely dumber than it should be. – – – I am of course convinced that the intellectuals of the right are wrong, but at least they are still thinking. .....................................................
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-378	Madam President, I would like I am a little curious about one thing in your draft budget, Robert Stenkvist. You remove 9 million SEK to Konstfack for artistic research and education, you remove 10 million to the Royal College of Music and you remove 8 million to the University of Gothenburg, where you specifically point out that it is the Swedish Secretariat for Gender Research that should be removed. The Swedish Secretariat for Gender Research has just received three new assignments from the Nordic Council of Ministers. The first is the mapping and analysis of research and knowledge about sexual harassment in working life, the second is sustainability and gender equality in future high-tech working life, and the third is sustainability and gender equality in the LGBTQ area in the Nordic region. Then I would like to ask the Swedish Democrats Robert Stenkvist: Do you think that these are not important areas to research, or why have you removed this money? To remove money from Konstfack and the Royal College of Music is also something that makes it difficult for the important education function in Sweden. I also want to know why you're taking that money away.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-382	Madam President, I would like This money was added once, before Gunilla Svantorp became chairman, due to a merger. We saw no reason why this money should be added because of this merger. It was the last term of office, and these negative positions have remained in place ever since. We have found no reason to remove them after that. We did not think that more money should be added because of the merger, and we still feel the same. Finally, of course, this becomes an obsolete task. When a number of years have passed since the merger, you can think about whether they should remain. But that was the reason why we deducted this money. I think it was at the beginning of the last parliamentary term. Of the assignments to the Swedish Secretariat for Gender Research that Gunilla Svantorp listed, I think some are excellent, such as researching sexual harassment. There should be no sexual harassment. If you carry out serious research on this, you might be able to get to the problem – excellent! But then this secretariat has devoted itself to a lot of other things, which we could read about, among other things, in Ivar Arpi's large series of articles in Svenska Dagbladet. Among other things, they forced gender studies into courses that could be about history or anything. We think that is wrong. This secretariat is located within the University of Gothenburg. The University of Gothenburg is allowed to research exactly what they want. We have academic freedom. They get to research these things that Gunilla Svantorp read out. However, we do not think that the secretariat has made a positive distinction.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-387	Madam President, I would like It's very exciting to hear Robert Stenkvist from the Swedish Democrats standing here and saying that it's clear that you're researching what you want – only you don't research power structures between the sexes, because then it's a danger. In Hungary, gender studies have been removed as approved subjects in Master's degrees. I get really scared when I hear Robert Stenkvist say that they can research what they want, as long as they don't research this and this. Therefore, I am really thinking about whether the Swedish Democrats are behind academic freedom, especially when it comes to researching power structures between men and women – something that is extremely important and that we would really need to do much more research on, but it is up to the universities to decide for themselves. Why do the Swedish Democrats take money away for such important research? I haven't had an answer to that.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-391	Madam President, I would like No, there Gunilla Svantorp put words in my mouth. We have not banned any research. Let me repeat: not research. Every university can decide for itself what you want to do in research. I say the opposite: It is Sweden that is Hungary here and imposes courses in the history of gender science. Even this butler, whom they had to read a book of, was against it. Sweden is the reverse Hungary – just the opposite! They are absolutely allowed to research power structures and gender studies. It will be based on scientific basis and tested like any other research. That is our demand: that there should be the same requirements for this as for all other research. There are power structures. Not only are patriarchal power structures in our country, but there are many other power structures that may be interesting to research.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-395	Madam President, I would like Like Gunilla Svantorp, I would like to say a few words about the Swedish Secretariat for Gender Research. The Secretariat will promote gender research in Sweden in the higher education sector with a nationwide perspective. Next year, a systematic study is planned on the hatred and violence and the threats and harassment to research and teaching staff in the higher education sector. It is a study and research that has not previously been done in Sweden. Only in September this year, the Secretariat published an overview of Swedish and international research on prevention of sexual harassment. And in January there are planned dialogue meetings on how to counteract sexual harassment and gender-based vulnerability in academia. The secretariat is thus driving the work for gender equality within academia, and we know that the academy is unequal, that women are subjected to sexual harassment, that it is more difficult for a woman to become a professor and that women are disadvantaged when research funding is to be distributed. The Left Party wants to achieve gender equality within academia, and on several occasions we have exercised and put forward various proposals. However, as we heard, there is a party in Parliament, the Swedish Democrats, that wants to go in the opposite direction and that proposes that the National Secretariat for Gender Research should be closed down. It is a proposal that means that the party pulls away the carpet for work on gender equality and against sexual harassment within academia. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Council for Higher Education issued a report in September this year showing that the universities have not started the preventive work against sexual harassment. Although responsibility for preventive work concerns employees, doctoral students and students, the survey shows that the work against sexual harassment is largely aimed at employees only. It is common that efforts aimed at students take place in cooperation with the student unions and that universities often rely on the student unions. Here, higher education institutions must be much better and take their own responsibility, and all actors are needed in this work. When the Swedish Public Health Agency last September presented its report on students' mental illness, the Agency noted that about half of the students report anxiety, anxiety and anxiety, which is considerably more than among professionals. And the symptoms were more common among students who identify as women. Thus, even in a student health perspective, we need a gender-conscious strategy. More than a year after the Swedish Public Health Agency's report, the Government set up an investigation to map and make suggestions on how to improve students' health. It is clear that we should have done more before, said the Minister for Higher Education and Research Matilda Ernkrans when she presented the investigation. I agree. It is indeed clear that the government should have done more before. In its draft budget, the Left Party has already invested in student health after Sweden's united student unions, several investigations and most recently the Swedish Public Health Agency has sounded an alarm about the students' health. It is also something that the student representatives I have met have raised. Probably sick leave and drop-out from educations because of the students' health costs more than an investment in student health would, not to mention what it costs the students who do not get the support they need. Mental disorders in the form of severe stress and symptoms of fatigue can lead to lower study results, lower professional readiness, less commitment and reduced professionalism in the profession, says the Swedish Public Health Agency. We in the Left Party welcome the fact that the government has now set up an investigation, but we also note that an investigation is not an investment in student health today, but possibly an investment later on. It's too late. Students need action now. Madam President, I would like The left-wing party's budget also includes an investment in the student unions. Security during the study period requires that there are effective support systems for students at higher education institutions, and the student unions today have to take a great responsibility both for the students' health and for the work against sexual harassment. Student unions are also needed to be able to speak for students. All students must have the opportunity to influence their college and improve their education. The Left Party also wants to increase the quality of higher education and therefore proposes an increase in the remuneration per full-year student to higher education institutions. If the Left Party's framework budget had been passed, the compensation would have been increased by SEK 1 000 per full year student, which would cost a total of SEK 293 million. The entire compensation system for higher education institutions needs to be fundamentally redesigned, and there are probably many of us waiting for the government to come up with a proposal based on the proposals contained in the so-called ostrich. The ostrich also contains several proposals on the conditions and funding of research, which we have reason to return to when the research bill reaches the Riksdag. The government spends a little money on job-integrated teacher training. But we have forgotten those who are to offer jobs, that is, the municipalities. The government's pace is far too slow. We need to get to grips with the human resources of welfare. The effort that the Left Party wants to make would be sufficient to train at least 10 000 teachers, preschool teachers, nurses, socionomists and other shortages in welfare. I regret that the left-wing party's budgetary framework has already been voted down. The tax reductions and the extension of the RUT deduction in the framework budget adopted by the majority of the Riksdag represent an effort on those who have a high income. The students, like the low wage earners, are allowed to stand back. We need a budget that invests in welfare, but instead we get a budget that prioritises tax cuts and contributions to the rich over welfare for all. Madam President, I would like I refer to the special opinion of the Left Party in the report.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-413	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a knowledge nation. Not least, we are an engineering country that has developed a large number of world-changing innovations. I say Tetra Pak, easy concrete, separator, wrench, pacemaker, roller, not to mention the dynamite. Many of these innovations and research advances have taken place at universities, in laboratories and so on, while others have been invented by people who are possessed by great knowledge but perhaps above all by great will. One of my good friends has after a Chalmers education in his own free time developed a patent for a special drill for concrete. It may sound boring, but it would never have happened if there had not been an undergraduate education in engineering at Chalmers. We will be proud of the university and higher education we have in Sweden. Liberals support the report that is on the table in Parliament. That is not to say that there are no things that we need to improve. I would like to mention, for example, that we need to develop how we can quickly get newly arrived academics into the labour market and that universities and colleges must be given the opportunity to pursue supplementary education, for example in health care, where we know that there is a great need. Madam President, I would like I would also like to use part of my speaking time to talk about academic freedom. We have heard it said earlier here in the speaker's seat. I know that the waves of debate were high due to the fact that the journalist education at the University of Gothenburg has invited Sweden's party secretary Richard Jomshof for a lecture on the party's media strategy. This happened a few weeks ago. Although I do not share the views of the Swedish Democrats on the substance, I share the view that the Swedish Democrats must have the right to express their views. It is somewhere fundamental to academic freedom. Sweden's higher education institutions have an important role as a critical self-respective mirror in society. They should be places where opinions are broken, where opinions are discussed and where one argues for different opinions. I think there are several of us in here who have sat and sighed through some lectures at university or college where we have experienced that it is obvious that the lecturer has a so-called bias. Where our pain has gone is probably due to political opinion and ideological conviction. We have to ask ourselves the question: who decides what is acceptable or what is not? If so, who will decide which courses are socially useful from one time to another? Who will be given that power? That's why we have an academic freedom, which should be fundamental. Because what's the opposite? For example, the opposite is found in Belarus, where power uses universities for its own purposes. There students can be expelled if they are politically active in opposition to the present power. The opposite is the case in Hungary, where the Central European University has been forced to move out of the country because it has continued to conduct research on a scientific basis. The opposite is in Poland, where academic freedom has been reversed as the conservative and nationalist party Law and Justice has grown. We do not want this reality in Sweden. That is why academic freedom is so important to protect today and tomorrow.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-423	Madam President, I would like To make the decision, perhaps as a young person, to apply for a higher education — perhaps a long education of four, five or six years — and to start studying at college or university is to make a big decision. It is a decision that will matter for a long time to come, perhaps for life. But hopefully it's a good decision. For our over 400 000 students, but also for us to have a sustainable and resilient knowledge society, we need to maintain high quality in our universities and colleges. We will offer our students the very best education we can. We will have an education with both breadth and excellence, and we need to continue to broaden recruitment so that more people get the chance to study at universities or colleges. Higher education should be present all over the country, unless campus areas and classrooms are included, at least via distance education. We need to lower the thresholds for higher studies, and we need to continue to expand the number of study places. I am pleased that we have a draft budget that meets these demands. Wider recruitment also means that we will need to take better care of our students. Unfortunately, we see an increase in mental illness among students. It's alarming. Psychic disorders are more common among students than among professionals in the corresponding age groups. This shows investigations, and this is what we have to face. It needs to be easier to register for sick leave as a student, and it needs to be possible to get sick part-time for shorter periods as well. Rehabilitation responsibilities need to be clarified. Here, s tudenthälsan is a central player, but it works very differently at the different universities. The government has recently set up an investigation to ensure that student health is more equal throughout the country. It is a good and important step along the way. Madam President, I would like University and higher education studies are about forming, preparing for and equipping for a working life. It is about assimilation of knowledge at a higher level but also about learning how to assimilate knowledge. Quality in teaching is best achieved by trusting our university teachers and by providing teachers with better conditions. Students need more teacher-led time in teaching. The teaching should be based on scientific basis and the latest research findings. We therefore need a strong link between research and education. Students need to meet teachers who are active researchers, and then university teachers' research time may need to be increased. It is a responsibility of higher education institutions and the social partners to design senior lecturers and other services, but resources have been added, among other things, through targeted initiatives and increased basic funding in recent years. Having said this about education, I will also say something about research. Sweden is a leading research nation. We invest a lot of money, we are successful and we are at the top of the world's countries in terms of, for example, how much money we invest in research, the number of researchers and the level of education in general. But we know that in terms of quality, measured in publications and citations, there are problems. Here, however, I would like to stress – without reducing the problems in any way – the risk of this type of quality indicators. We may need other ways of measuring quality in research, but now it is above all these we have. The research should be free. Research should be driven by curiosity, curiosity and a desire to discover, to move on, to see something new and to see connections. For research to be successful, good environments are needed. One problem we have today is that we have too many teachers and researchers in precarious employment. These are short open-ended employment contracts, timvikari in education and part-time employment. This is not good. It is not good for the individual teacher or researcher. It creates confusion in the private economy, and it destroys the opportunities to create secure research environments. Universities need to be better employers here. More university teachers will have permanent employment, i.e. permanent jobs as lecturer or assistant lecturer, and fewer will have fixed-term employment. When we increase the basic funding, they should go to secure employment and more research time for teaching teachers – not for new research projects or for senior researchers, which I understand the Swedish Democrats want with their budget movement. I am, of course, aware that such a desire conflicts with the principle of autonomy. But the ambition and will are clearly expressed in the 2016 research policy bill. Quality in research requires strong research environments with secure researchers. Teachers need to take greater responsibility for this. Madam President, I would like I will raise a few points for research policy in the future. Higher education and research have a great responsibility to take on a vibrant and growing Swedish enterprise. The lack of skills is a difficult challenge. Innovations and collaboration between research, education, government agencies and industry are important elements for Sweden to continue to be a successful country for entrepreneurship. But perhaps the most important driving force and tangible effect of entrepreneurship is growth. That, according to many, is a very positive word. However, we have not yet seen a single example of how we have managed to solve the decoupling between growth and increased emissions. The dream of sustainable growth is still just a dream, or as Greta Thunberg so accurately formulated it in her speech at the UN: The speeches about eternal growth are just fairy tales. This is painful. As usual, Greta Thunberg presses a finger in our eye by saying the inconvenient. But that's the way it is. Unfortunately, there are still many people in this House who talk about sustainable growth. It is storytellers who believe that the climate issue should be resolved through more electricity and that nuclear power should solve everything. But that's not how it works. This extremely unpleasant and uncomfortable question needs to be addressed by research. What is sustainable entrepreneurship? What will be the driving forces of living, innovative and important companies in the future? Another issue, which also concerns the climate, is that we know relatively well what the effects of climate change will be. But we know too little about how to tackle them. What is the cost of the effects of climate change? Who will pay, for example, for floods and forest fires? How can we use natural climate solutions to both reduce carbon dioxide in the air and manage a changing climate with strong winds, extreme temperatures and large amounts of precipitation? According to the UN, we may have a quarter of a billion climate refugees by the middle of the century. How should we address this migration challenge globally, in Europe and in Sweden? If we do nothing about the climate, we are facing a new era of migration in Europe and globally. Research also needs to meet that challenge, and it is urgent. A third area I would like to mention is the health challenge. We're getting older and more and more. Sweden is and will be a leading nation in terms of medical research. We are making major investments in this area, and we have invested in infrastructure. But we must not forget that perhaps more down-to-earth: care. The medical research is behind schedule. We need to know much more about why we have 100,000 injuries in Sweden. 1,200 people die unnecessarily in health care every year. We rarely talk about these people. We can compare with the death of traffic, which is at least as terrible, but in which we spend a great deal of resources on research, or with shootings, which have dominated the media for a long time now. Last morning we heard about two shots shot in Uppsala, one dead. These are terrible events. We should not have a situation where more than 100 people are shot to death each year, but we should not have 12 times as many as die in the care. The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed a national action plan for patient safety that is now in force after the New Year and where they clearly point to the lack of knowledge and research. This is also a challenge for research and higher education. Sustainable entrepreneurship, climate adaptation and patient safety are three important areas that I would like to highlight for future research policy. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-448	Madam President, I would like Then I stand here again, Mats Berglund. It concerns the same issue as last time. Mats Berglund talked about fairy tales and storytelling and mentioned nuclear energy in this context. Today, Sweden's electricity generation consists of 40% of nuclear power. Well, at least the last time I checked the numbers, it may have dropped a little bit. It is not a fairy tale, but it is real electricity that we use here in this Chamber on this particular occasion. Germany is phasing out all its nuclear power after Fukushima, with the result that they cannot get rid of their coal production and consumption, which produces huge amounts of carbon dioxide. This is not a fairy tale, it is a reality. I know the Green Party wants to reward wind power and perhaps solar power or solar electricity, but this is a bit of a fairy tale today. A large part of it may come true – I have no doubt about that. Some electricity is produced with wind power, and that is not wrong. But that will not be enough. The Green Party is too fast a train, which will consume huge amounts of electricity. Saga and reality – I ask myself a little question here, Madam President.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-453	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Robert Stenkvist, for the question! And thank you for the discussion on nuclear power, both last time and this time! I think it's nice to discuss nuclear energy. Nuclear power is, of course, important for today's electricity supply, and we are not going to shut down the boom right now. We will be able to make a transition. In particular, wind power will increase in efficiency, and we will expand it. There is every possibility of expanding wind power. Solar power is also becoming increasingly effective. I would say that it is fairy tales to believe that we should continue to expand nuclear power and that it will solve the climate challenges we have. It won't. Nuclear power is expensive. Nuclear power is completely lethal, both for us here and for those who break uranium somewhere on earth – we would rather not know where and what their working conditions are. Nuclear power will be lethal for many generations to come. Of course, we can talk about future generations of nuclear power, especially when we talk about research, and whether we are going to develop a new generation of nuclear power. But it is still long times for the decomposition of the depleted uranium that we are talking about, even if we go from several hundred thousand years to just a few thousand years. How are we supposed to hide something in the bedrock or whatever we're going to do for hundreds of thousands of years? We don't even know what was hidden under the ground here where we stand just a couple of hundred years ago. We discovered Gustav Vasa' city wall when we were going to build a garage for ourselves here. We still know very little about Gustav Vasa's city wall and how it was drawn and lay around Stockholm. How are we supposed to know about what's gonna happen in thousands of years?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-457	Madam President, I would like The technology has hopefully been developed some times since Gustav Vasa's time. With our bedrock, I think we can keep an eye on nuclear fuel for a thousand years to come. Nuclear power involves risks. There may be accidents. It can with all kinds of energy. The nuclear accidents that have occurred have occurred through hugely sloppy procedures, such as at Chernobyl, where they almost deliberately caused a nuclear accident. I hope we have better trained operators than that. In Fukushima it was a tsunami. Sweden will not suffer from any tsunami. But it's not safe. Wind power could fail. A lot of birds of prey die in wind turbines, which makes me very distressed. No technology has been developed to prevent this. We should be doing research on that first of all. I believe that nuclear power has a place with wind power and solar power.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-460	Madam President, I would like First, when it comes to birds of prey, I think it's being researched. I read an American report that contradicts the mass death of birds of prey. I haven't verified with any more studies, but that probably doesn't add up. However, we should not avoid seeing the problems of wind power and wildlife, because of course they exist. When it comes to nuclear accidents: nuclear accidents happen. I can list a number of accidents that have happened to nuclear power, and there will be accidents in the future. Of course, you can explain away every single one of them by the fact that there was a tsunami here, something else there and the human factor in the third case, but accidents happen. The problem with nuclear accidents, unlike wind energy accidents, is that there will be enormous damage when a nuclear power plant breaks down. A falling wind farm may not be as dangerous as an explosion of a nuclear power plant.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-462	Madam President, I would like During today's debate, it becomes clear what is the priority of the Social Democrats, but also partly of the Center Party. Their main question is what the Moderates really think of a measurement – a measurement that has also presented a wide range of results in different areas of the education system. The fact that the Moderates are happy about some but concerned or perhaps even upset about another is not accepted in response. Madam President, I would like The party that has ruled this country and therefore had the greatest impact on the education system and today's results, i.e. the Social Democrats, does not consider today's school debate to be sufficiently urgent for a heavier focus on the safety of school, the lack of teachers in school or, for that matter, the results in school. Who, then, is affected by this disinterest? It is those who have already been most affected by the consequences of almost one hundred years of social democratic rule. These are the children who grow up with worse conditions, children with parents who want to but who may not be able to help with the lesson, children who grow up in concrete blocks, children who go to schools without competent teachers and often weak school leaders and children who are forced to adhere to standards that we in this House would never accept. It is simply the children who are affected. Madam President, I would like When we last put through a budget in this House, it was moderate and Christian-democratic. At the time, there was a very good investment in primary teachers in exclusion areas. Twenty-six million they'd get. The government refused to pay out the money, thereby consolidating an additional understandard schooling for the very children most in need. Now the government has invested 4.9 billion in so-called equivalence grants – grants that will never, however, benefit the children and municipalities with the greatest need. For those municipalities with the worst economy and most difficulties must not apply for the money. This is the reality of Sweden today. The Minister for Education comments on this a little quickly and announces that this may need to be reviewed. But no decisions are made. Madam President, I would like Today, the people of Malmö are demonstrating. Children, parents, grandparents, teachers and principals demonstrate. Children attending school in Malmö of Social Democrats are demonstrating today outside the City Hall. Why? Because of cuts in school. With the Moderates' budget, 7 billion would benefit these children. 7 billion would benefit municipalities and could actually affect the equivalence that is so often referred to but which is also so often lacking. If I had not been in the Chamber today to debate education policy, Madam President, I would have stood side by side with the people of Malmö and demonstrated against the cuts made by the Social Democrats.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-468	Madam President, I would like Having been sitting here for hours listening to the debate, it is clear that there is a dividing line between our school policy and, above all, the government's school policy. We Swedish democrats have the focus on order and good work environment. The government believes in more and more grants to certain schools. It's called equivalence. In fact, it becomes hugely inimitable because some schools get so much more money than other schools get. The consequence is to impoverish certain schools. Since the municipalities are the principals, systems already provide some schools with 50 to 60 percent more money than other schools receive. So you take money from some schools that have good school results and give it to those who have a little worse school results. That's how you do it. Structural replacements are called it, but that is what reality looks like, and that is where we should stay. We should not stick to rhetoric; we should stick to reality. This is what we want to continue to increase. We shall have even more of this, and that is what we call the equivalence premium. We find it boring. Instead, we want to invest this money and a little more – in fact, we spend half a billion more than the government on the total education budget – mainly on a good working environment. We have several fine suggestions for that. It's about better pupil health, more special educators, IT staff, rules and order and order in school, changes in the school law, extra resources for the School Inspectorate and so on. We have also heard about the PISA survey, and we have seen in schools that there are a huge number of students in Sweden who fail to get full access. We have talked about this several times here today. It is in any case about 25 per cent who do not complete, pass grades when they leave comprehensive school and go on to upper secondary school. This gap is widening with the principle of equivalence. This has been done for years. Now we want to increase further, and the gap continues to grow. It must be understood, I think, that if you take action and it is not a good result and you continue with the measures and there are still not good results, you have to choose another way. What we know with assurance is that the road we are on today will not narrow the gap. Rather, it is the opposite. The gaps will continue to increase, and that is not good. Then you have to choose a different path. Our road involves a good working environment, order and order in school and a lot of suggestions that may be of particular benefit to those who are in the most difficult situation in today's school. These include the new arrivals. They're having a hard time getting into the Swedish school. Why? Well, they're thrown into school a couple of weeks after they've come to Sweden. Unfortunately, that is the reality. There are some schools in one of our 290 municipalities that have done a little bit to improve this. Of course, it is necessary to do so everywhere. That is why, among other things, we have such fine proposals as the one on preparation school. There, these students get the chance to learn about Sweden and learn Swedish and then get into school as some who are not completely outside but get in and really get a chance to succeed in the Swedish school. It can't be easy for them. Everyone has to understand that. What I would like is less rhetoric and more deduction. That's what we all need.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-474	Madam President, I would like The climate is perhaps the most important issue of our time. We know that global warming is taking place and that the increase in temperature means that it is now one degree warmer than in pre-industrial times. Many of us are concerned about the climate. As politicians, we should take these concerns seriously. I'm just back from Madrid and the UN climate summit. The slogan for the meeting was Time for action, and time for action is exactly what it's all about. People's fears and frustrations are not met by fine rhetoric or symbolic policies that have no real effect on emissions. Instead, both seriousness and concern are met with effective policies for actual emission reductions both here in Sweden and globally. Madam President, I would like The government and the Green Party have high tails on the climate issue. I don't doubt their good intentions. But the fact is that after five years, the government's climate policy is not very good at all. The Red-Green Government took office in 2014. Since then, emissions have decreased by less than 1% per year. Last year, emissions decreased by just under 2%. At the same time, we know that in order to achieve our objective of climate neutrality in 2045, emissions must be reduced by between 5% and 8% per year. This is the result of a policy which, in its eagerness to reduce emissions, invests in anything as long as it sounds good and is perceived as doing something. Madam President, I would like That's not how the Moderates work. We have four starting points for our climate policy. Firstly, we believe in a climate policy that is as effective as possible. This means that each invested tax chandelier should provide as much emission reduction as possible. Secondly, we know that stable and fossil-free energy production is crucial for the transition from fossil to electricity that society must now make. Thirdly, we are technology optimists. We know that it is not politics and politicians that will make the technological leaps needed to reduce emissions and eventually achieve negative emissions. Last but not least, we believe in international cooperation. We know that Sweden accounts for 1 per mil of global emissions. If Sweden became emission neutral today, it would take eight weeks for the world to compensate for our zero emissions with its increased emissions. The only rational conclusion of this is that international cooperation is needed to reduce global emissions as quickly and as much as possible. Madam President, I would like These four starting points lead us to our proposals for reducing emissions. At a national level, this means special efforts that go beyond the government's budget. First, the Moderates spend SEK 1.5 billion on an electrification package. We know that electricity demand will probably increase by 60% by 2045. The social transition from fossil to electricity that we are about to make is rarely seen. We know that there are currently no technologies for storing electricity in the way that would be required for wind or solar electricity to replace nuclear power. We know that the IPCC says that nuclear power needs to be scaled up to replace coal power globally. And we know that scientists agree that the only upscalable technology for breaking fossil energy dependence in the world is nuclear power. Yet parties in the Swedish parliament are against nuclear power. They celebrate the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 and also have the nerve to claim that the closure of Swedish nuclear power is done on market grounds. The fact that, during a burning climate crisis, the decommissioning of fossil-free electricity is being turned into a parade issue is unimaginable. This is particularly true of those parties that claim to want to protect the climate. The Moderates are investing 100 million in nuclear research. We want to see a fourth-generation nuclear demo, electric roads and electric cars running on our streets and replacing the fossil vehicle fleet. This requires electric cars to be loaded somewhere. Therefore, the Moderates invest six times more than the government in audiences and technology-neutral charging infrastructure. We are also investing in industry and spending as much money as the government on the transformation of industry. We also supplement the Government's proposal with our own reform of the climate allowance. The Moderates see the importance of our Swedish industry and our companies. In the media and by left-wing parties, our Swedish companies are portrayed as climate criminals. Our companies are not climate criminals, quite the contrary. Swedish companies export emission reductions. In terms of both imports and exports in relation to emissions, research shows that Sweden emits less per person than when calculating territorial emissions. This is because Sweden exports goods made from fossil-free electricity. Contrary to what is said in the national debate on CO2 emissions, exports by the iron and steel industry are actually saving the most CO2 emissions globally. Sweden is thus exporting emission reductions. An important part of Swedish climate policy is therefore to maintain high growth and competitiveness in Swedish industry so that we can export even more climate-smart products. Climate policy must not steer towards less foreign trade in order to reduce domestic emissions, as this would lead to increased global emissions. To ensure this, the Moderates propose the introduction of a new calculation measure for emissions, which takes into account our exports. Madam President, I would like With CO2 capture and storage, the IPCC has in its scenarios to reach the temperature targets. The Moderates want Sweden to develop a CCS strategy, which shows what infrastructure is needed and how this can be made economically viable for companies to invest in. We await with excitement the investigation to be submitted to the government in January and hope that the government will not drag this into the long term. Last but not least, Moderates spend 2 billion on international climate aid, over 300 million on international climate investments and 200 million on a modified emission brake. According to the Institute of Economic Development, a modified emission brake is a very effective way of reducing emissions under the EU emissions trading scheme. Yet the government has chosen not to reintroduce this reform. We are investing in international climate aid because we know that the climate challenge is global. Madam President, I would like Climate policy and confidence that politicians are doing what is possible to stop global warming are harmed by the government's raising taxes to finance its subsidy policy and at the same time claiming to do so for the climate. It is simply not true that the chemical tax, the incineration tax and the tax on plastic bags help to reduce emissions or improve the environment. All serious consultation bodies and experts have pointed this out. Yet the government continues to claim that subsidies are climate and environmental taxes. Madam President, I would like Sweden has the second worst growth in the EU this year. The government is pursuing an economic policy that impairs the ability of Sweden as a country, but also for its inhabitants, to change. It is not by reducing productivity and growth that we solve the climate issue. Instead, growth is essential for Swedish companies to be able to afford to switch to climate-smart production and for us consumers to be able and able to afford to trade climate-smart goods. It is through growth, innovation and creativity that we will make the transition and at the same time create a better society and a higher standard of living for all. The climate policy of the Moderates creates the conditions for this very thing.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-496	Madam President, I would like In their budget, the Moderates cut the environmental and climate budget by 21⁄2 billion and try to compensate for lack of money and lack of action at home by moving 2 billion from the aid budget. But, Louise Meijer, it is not possible to buy away from the climate crisis. Emissions should be removed, both in Sweden and in the rest of the world. I would like Louise Meijer to explain to Parliament at the turn of the line how 2 billion are taken from established channels in the aid and moved to the Environment and Agriculture Committee's budget to make that difference, so that the whole of Sweden can reset.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-497	Madam President, I would like What Mrs Burwick says is simply not true. The Moderates spend 3 million more than the government on Category 20. I'm sure you'll have to recalculate and ask the question on the basis of that calculation. Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mrs Burwick a question. I have not heard a single proposal of my own from the Social Democrats in terms of reducing emissions. All I hear in the climate debate is what the Green Party thinks. A representative of the Social Democratic Party has said on social media, among other things, that he thinks that companies should be able to go bankrupt. He has stated that he thinks Volvo is a climate villain. I must therefore ask the representative of the Government Party of Social Democrats whether the Social Democrats agree with the attitude expressed by their partner party – that Swedish companies should go bankrupt and that they are climate criminals. Is this correct? In that case, I think the Social Democrats should be clear about it.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-500	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer will hear me give my speech right here in Parliament and what I say then. But it is telling that the representatives of the Moderates cannot explain with a single word how 2 billion are taken from the aid budget to cover the holes in an environmental budget that is drastically cut into can lead to our reaching the climate targets. I would also like you to explain the emission brake a little more closely. We have revised the EU ETS system, largely thanks to the efforts of the Swedish Government. We will now be faced with a time when we need to revise it again, given the new climate targets that the EU community has come up with. To buy allowances in a system to be revised at that time is to throw the money into the lake. What is the Moderate planning for this?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-503	Madam President, I would like I think that the Social Democrats, who are ultimately responsible for Sweden's climate policy and for emissions in Sweden, should focus less on talking about the Moderates' budget, where we therefore spend 3 million more than the government does on Category 20, and focus more on the fact that emissions do not decrease at the rate that they should do. Emissions are to be reduced by between 5 and 8 per cent per year in order to achieve our climate targets, which the Social Democrats are currently responsible for achieving. However, we know that emissions only fall by 1 – 2% per year. This is a major concern, and I hope that in this debate we will be able to find out if the Social Democrats are satisfied with that result.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-505	Madam President, I would like When I read the Moderates' proposal for the budget, I see that the Moderates cut nearly 2.6 billion on the environmental budget, including on valuable nature and on the climate life initiative. By moving two climate and environmental billions from the aid budget to the environmental budget, the Moderates are trying to hide the fact that they are killing the environmental budget. However, there will be no more environmental and climate action for this. Well, that's what I call number-playing. The Moderates want to save the last coal power in Sweden by also continuing to provide support for the reduction of the CO2 tax. The aim is to increase emissions from traffic with the equivalent of another coal power plant by significantly reducing the tax on fuel and thus prolonging our dependence on oil. The Moderates spend 300 million on buying up and canceling allowances. It does very little good because, as Mrs Burwick has just said, the emissions trading system was reformed. This reform was made thanks to the Swedish Government and is now leading to strong emission reductions. The Moderates cut back on aid, reduce health insurance and raise food prices. The Moderates' policy on the environment and climate is an air castle, Madam President. My question to Louise Meijer is therefore: how can the Moderates go forward with a policy that so greatly increases Sweden's climate emissions?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-511	Madam President, I would like There will be no reduction in emissions because the government parties and representatives are here talking about the Moderates' budget. What should be important for those responsible to talk about is that the rate of reduction is not at all sufficient. Emissions must be reduced by 5 – 8 percent per year in order to achieve climate neutrality in 2045. They decrease by 1 – 2 percent per year. Is the Green Party satisfied with the government's climate policy? Instead of talking about the proposals you want to see, you talk about the Moderates' budget, which means 3 million SEK more. It's not very much, but it's still 3 million kroner more. At the same time, we see that during the past term of office, the Green Party gave priority – thankfully not during this term of office – to e-bike subsidies and climate anxiety therapy. In what way would it reduce emissions, is it thought? I think we need more focus on the real reforms. We need to talk about the real reforms that actually reduce emissions. Speaking of which, my question to Maria Gardfjell must be: how can you choose to spend EUR 2 billion on the climate category, which is a reform which all the experts have criticised for not producing very large reductions in emissions because it is not additional? On the other hand, it is incredibly expensive. The government spends money on climate policy without leading to actual emission reductions. I understand that you have a great deal of commitment, and I feel with your commitment, Maria Gardfjell. I'm worried too. I also want to reduce emissions. But where are your concrete reforms to reduce emissions here and now? It's not going fast enough.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-518	Madam President, I would like I have a speech later in which I will tell you about the policy of the Green Party. Now I was going to ask Louise Meijer questions, who has had her speech and presented the politics of the Moderates. The Moderates deduct almost half a billion kronor from the work of nature conservation and outdoor life in their budget. That money would have been used to reduce the risk of drought and flooding through the construction of wetlands, to combat invasive alien species and to invest in hiking trails in the mountains. The Government proposes that nearly SEK 1.4 billion be spent on measures for cleaner marine and aquatic environments next year. The Moderates call a small addition of 10 million a powerful bet. Isn't this ridiculous?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-521	Madam President, I would like I cannot help but note that Maria Gardfjell said that she will talk about the policy of the Green Party in her speech. I hope it is the government's policy, because at the same time you cannot be responsible for Swedish climate policy, sit in the government, have the Ministry of Climate Change and talk as if you were an opposition party. It just doesn't make sense. Either you're responsible, or you're not responsible. I think it should be very interesting to hear what the government has to say, especially about the rate of emission reduction which is too slow. As far as Moderate politics is concerned, I am very proud that we are spending SEK 3 million more than the government does on climate policy. Maria Gardfjell paid attention herself – thank you for that! – that we spend SEK 10 million more on the marine and aquatic environment to clean our waters and ensure availability. I'm incredibly proud of that.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-524	Madam President, I would like Climate and environmental issues continue to be high on the political agenda. I'm glad to hear that. It is less gratifying to see how political work is going at a global level now that COP 25 has just been completed. Not even the question of how to easily monitor and compare countries' emissions was solved. You don't have to wear your cynical glasses to conclude that many of the fine words and promises that come from many countries are more about PR than about actual content. Of course, it is most obvious when you talk about China – the country that has been sometimes hailed by environmentalists around the world for investments in renewable energy while building as much new coal combustion as solar energy and also resisting when it comes to monitoring its own emissions. Madam President, I would like However, not everything is night black. At the same time as COP 25 was held, there was also a report from the IEA, the International Energy Council. I am talking about the annual World Energy Outlook, which has unfortunately been very underreported in the media. This report uses two new scenarios to give an idea of what energy production should look like until 2040: CPS, which is based on today's agreed policies, and SPS, which is more based on hopes. You can then compare CPS with the scenarios used by the IPCC called RCP. What is new is that the IEA also estimates in CPS, which is based on current policies, that the use of coal will be significantly reduced in the future. Compared to the IPCC's existing scenarios, there is a significant decrease in carbon use, which means that if the IAE is right, the higher scenarios can be excluded from the IPCC – such as 8.5 and 6.0 – and rather fall below 4.5. This sounds very technical, but it should be remembered that almost all of the disaster reports that we read about in the newspapers today or the scenarios that we first get up when we go into SMHI's website are based on RCP 8, 5, which is an extreme scenario that means massively increased coal use in the future, halted technological development and extremely strong population growth – perhaps the least likely scenario of all of them. Then it is very positive that the IEA estimates that coal use has peaked and that, for example, electricity production from coal will decrease by as much as 3 percent this year. This is, in fact, positive news that should be reported a little more, because if greenhouse gas emissions are to decrease in the world, it is primarily and first and foremost about reducing the use of coal. That is the absolute key. Madam President, I would like It would be desirable for positive news, such as this report, to receive attention as well. I think it would be useful for the climate debate to start highlighting positive scenarios for the future along with the bad ones. The report also shows that, above all, hope does not depend on politicians. The fact that coal use is deemed to have been peaked is not fundamentally due to climate policy, although it is, of course, partly related to it, but to the fact that coal is being competed out by other energy sources. It is energy sources that are cleaner for people and that are cheaper and more reliable. This applies in particular to gas and renewable energy. Madam President, I would like We need understanding of this. When the gas is to be competed out, it will probably not be the disaster scenarios in the newspapers that are the cause, but it will be about finding cheaper and more efficient ways of producing energy. We need to focus widely on research in this area. Then it does not work to have a climate minister who does not want to research new nuclear technology because it is not yet on the market. We must, of course, create the conditions for new, more efficient, more environmentally friendly and cheaper nuclear power to be built, just as we must achieve efficient storage of energy from the sun and wind so that these types of energy can perhaps become a reliable part of the energy supply of countries at some point in the future. For this reason, we are also proposing to Swedish democrats that the investment in research and development be increased, and we also want to see funding for a new Swedish research reactor. Madam President, I would like The Government has announced, through the January agreement, continued efforts on green tax exchange. That sounds good in theory. But what we see is actually an investment in red tax increases without climate benefits. The government chooses to change up the chemistry tax, even though it lacks an environmental impact and leads to more people making their purchases outside Sweden. This punitive taxation of Swedish home electronics trade wants this government to extend to a tax on clothing. It's kind of like retail isn't having a tough enough time today with competition and there'd be a desire to get even more jobs out of Sweden. Then there is the plastic bag tax, which according to government ministers is supposed to save the whales. The Minister who has said this is not here, but it has actually been said. This tax is probably the example of a placard political tax that does not protect the environment but the public purse and its own conscience, in a strange way. Now that the industry itself has proposed an environmental fee for innovation and technological development, it would be appropriate to throw the bill in the bin as soon as possible. The plastic bag tax will not make a difference in our seas, but it will make it more difficult for Swedish plastic recycling when one of the most important markets for recycled plastics is limited. The beneficiaries are producers of waste bags, mostly consisting of fossil plastic made abroad. Madam President, I would like Green tax exchanges are, of course, positive, and I understand the government's problem. When there are rural people on their knees, it does not work to shock the world's already highest CO2 tax, but then you have to try to make up other things that sound good. There is no evidence to suggest that this is about anything other than placard policy combined with red tax increase policy. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, it is a theme that the bodies of experts reject the government's climate policy. The climate targets have been rejected by both the Institute of Economic Development and the Council of Finance Policy. When it comes to the Climate Act, the Swedish Council for Law and Research at the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences was also opposed. Climate investments in municipalities and county councils were recently sawed by the Swedish National Audit Office. The last failure came from the Institute of Economics, which failed the climate bonus. Right now, the Swedish National Audit Office is looking at that means of control. We can therefore expect another sawing. When will the government take on board the views of its own expert bodies? Do you care at all what they say? Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a climate and environmental policy that is not based on left-wing politics. Today we have an environmental movement that has completely buried itself in Marxist plan economic theories, which ultimately is based on the fact that we must throw our societies back to a time of lower prosperity. This movement lacks popular support. We need an environmental policy based on hope, which recognises that growth and increased prosperity worldwide must be a foundation of environmental and climate policy, recognising that there are conflicts of interest and not pretending that everything is free and that only a little more will is required. There's always a price tag on the will. Environmental policy must recognise that research and innovation are the basis for solving environmental problems.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-542	Madam President, I would like With ten years left to act to counter the climate crisis, Sweden's democrats are drawing down the environmental and climate budget by net over SEK 4 billion. You seem to be protecting ordinary people and the opportunity to live in the countryside, Martin Kinnunen, but you refuse ordinary people to change. When you slaughter the climate life, the possibility of getting support for charging points disappears. When you remove the possibility of receiving support when buying a climate bonus car, how can you reset? You want to increase emissions from traffic by means of the greatly reduced tax on fuel and extend our dependence on oil. The large part of the reduction goes to motorists in the big cities, while you want to stop the tax cut to sparsely populated municipalities. What's the answer, Martin Kinnunen? How will ordinary people throughout Sweden be able to change with the Swedish Democrats' climate policy on the right side?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-544	Madam President, I would like My question will then be spontaneous: Did the government commit a disastrous environmental and climate policy in 2017? When I look at the budgets historically, I can see that the Swedish Democrats spend more money on the expenditure area than the government put in 2017. It should have been a fantastically disastrously bad government in 2017. Have they apologized for the disastrous fossil policy that they pursued just a few years ago? Or could it be that everything does not depend on exactly how many billions you spend on environmental policy? It is perhaps more important to focus on what politics means for people and what different priorities we politicians have to do. We hear a lot here about various proposals that we do not support. The climate bonus has been failed by the Institute of Economic Development, and it has been rejected by the Council of Finance Policy. Soon it will also have been failed by the Swedish National Audit Office. Why does it fail? Because it is not an effective instrument and because the money does not go right. Much of the money ends up in Norway. We are subsidising the Norwegian fleet of vehicles today. Is that a good way to spend taxpayers' money?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-547	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats claim to be technology optimists. At the same time, 400 million out of the 600 people who go to Industriklivet are cut. At the moment, Swedish industry is making billions of investments in the climate transition to secure future exports and jobs. For me as a social democrat, jobs throughout the country are something that really contributes to hope in the transition. That is precisely the hope that the Swedish democrats are taking away, while at the same time claiming to be technology optimists. How can you change the whole of Sweden with the lack of climate policy that you have, Martin Kinnunen?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-550	Madam President, I would like It is quite right that the Swedish Democrats want to focus on a more effective climate policy – a cheaper climate policy. There is also no extreme need in Sweden to reduce emissions quickly. Emissions are low in Sweden. If we take into account all the removals from our forest, there is in principle emission neutrality today. We therefore do not support the 2030 target for the transport sector or the other agreed climate targets. We agree with the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finance Ministers that the targets are ineffective and do not contribute well to reducing emissions in the world. That is why we are against them, and that is why we are not in such a hurry and do not need to impair ordinary people to the extent that the Social Democrats want.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-552	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to cut just over 4.1 billion dollars on the climate and environmental budget, abolish environmental taxes for SEK 6 billion, reduce the tax on fuel by SEK 1 and at the same time abolish indexation. As Mrs Burwick has just mentioned, we also want to reduce the investments made in Sweden's industry, which would be detrimental to Sweden's competitiveness. I would like to raise the issue of the taxation of petrol. I have asked the Swedish Parliament's investigation service to produce a basis on the geographical distribution effects of the petrol tax. This shows that only 8% of the money that the reduction of the petrol tax by SEK 1 that the Swedish Democrats are now proposing would go to rural areas while 63% would go to the big cities. In geographical terms, 51 per cent of the tax reduction would go to Götaland, 36 per cent to Svealand and 13 per cent to Norrland. Then I wonder, Madam President: how can the Swedish democrats stand in the pulpit and claim that their tax reduction would benefit rural and sparsely populated areas?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-556	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the honourable Member wants to talk about fuel taxation. It is an important reform in the policy of the Swedish Democrats. I would argue that 1 krona at a reduced price is probably at a disadvantage, because it does not take full account of the consequences of reducing the share of biofuels in the mix. I believe that we will be able to get even lower prices with Swedish democratic policy. This is important, because the car is fundamental to people's mobility in Swedish society. It's a big country we have. But the car is important not only for rural people. It's important to city dwellers. It is important for people who are going to drive their children to school, to football practice. The car is fundamental to a great many people in our country, and then we cannot continue to tax people who need the car. It is not just rural people, although rural people are extra dependent on the car, but it applies to many – and I would like to point out that the policy of the Swedish Democrats will lead to more than just one crown in reduced fuel taxation.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-559	Mr President, I would like to It would be a little comfort to the countryside to get cheaper fuel at the expense of the fact that it is primarily beneficial for driving in the big cities. We need a more accurate and better rural policy than that. I note that the Swedish Democrats are also cutting back on the investment in general tax cuts for rural and sparsely populated areas that we in the government parties, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, are proposing. We must reduce climate emissions from traffic by 70%. I can probably put my political credibility on a fact: it is absolutely impossible to do it without economic instruments. What are the Swedish Democrats going to do?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-562	Mr President, I would like to We will see a change in the transport sector, of which I am convinced. The Council of Finance Ministers is discussing whether this is a good time for the goal. When's the electric car gonna break through? We will see this come true. It may not happen by 2030. Maybe we'll hit the right 2035. But we can do that without instruments. We can do that without it costing this much money. Is it worth doing people this much harm for a few years? We can spend that money abroad on projects that provide much more. Rural people are not social cases. They do not need tax reductions in individual county councils or individual municipalities. We want to offer all of Sweden's people reduced taxes, and we want to offer significantly reduced fuel prices.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-565	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by stating that the Government's proposal for a budgetary framework has been approved by Parliament. Since, at the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than that desired by the Christian Democrats, I choose to abstain from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 20 and to refer instead to our specific opinion. Nevertheless, I would like to tell you that the Christian Democrats maintain their view that appropriations under Category 20 should have been limited in the way shown by our committee motion. Mr President, I would like to The climate challenge is global. This means that we in Sweden must meet it on both an international and a national level. After multi-annual negotiations, it was very gratifying that in 2015 the world's countries agreed on a climate agreement in Paris. Good international cooperation is crucial to achieving progress. After two weeks of negotiations, the climate summit in Madrid has now reached its goal in overtime, albeit perhaps not with the result we would have liked. The ambitions of some countries are not large enough. The biggest losers are the world's poorest, who have contributed the least to emissions but still bear the greatest consequences. However, it is good that poor countries are now being compensated for damage caused by climate change. The climate requires the countries of the world to act together. However, if we are to bring the outside world into the transition, we must show that it is possible to change things in a positive way. It's supposed to be fun to reset! We're supposed to be technology-positive and technology-optimists. Climate comb and doom anxiety do not lead to the desired result. Instead, shame and anxiety give birth to fear, and it does not lead to the creative actions that we need. On the contrary, it paralyzes us. Mental ill health is large enough without adding additional burdens to bear on our fellow human beings. Mr President, I would like to It is worrying that Swedish greenhouse gas emissions have levelled out. During the eight years in which the Alliance Government ruled Sweden, the emission curve pointed in the right direction. According to the statistics for 2018, emissions under the management of Lövven and Lövin have decreased by approximately 3.8 per cent – excluding international transport. In the same period, emissions from international transport have increased by 2%. During the reign of the A alliance, emissions decreased by 19 per cent in eight years. The reasons for this are several, but I would like to mention here some important elements for us in the Christian Democrats in order to make the curves go in the right direction in future. Firstly, nuclear power: Nuclear power is a climate-neutral energy source that currently accounts for just over 40% of Sweden's electricity production. The two Ringhals 1 and 2 reactors are planned to be closed by the end of 2019 and 2020 respectively. That decision will lead to a deterioration of the balance of effects and increased import needs. The Christian Democrats believe that the possibilities of moving forward the reactors should be reviewed in a quick investigation. That study should also take into account and highlight the climate impacts. The closure of the reactors results in an additional 8 million tonnes of CO2 being emitted annually. It is completely unrealistic to think that the current government, which has thus barely managed to reduce emissions by 0.2 million tonnes, should in some magical way be able to shake up emission reductions that compensate for the closure of Ringhals. We need more clean electricity, not less, if we are to meet the climate challenges. We want to see a future for both nuclear power and hydropower, as well as solar and wind power. Sweden today has an energy mix that we should be proud of. Secondly, Mr President, it is important to distinguish between large and small. Much effort is being put into spreading guilt and shame instead of implementing technology shifts. One example where we in Sweden can really take big steps and show the way to others is the steel industry. SSAB has a realistic plan to move to carbon-free steel production and thereby eliminate 10 percent of Sweden's emissions. But you're stuck in very long state processes. Several other investments are in a similar position. Today, a permit case can go through the County Administrative Board, the Land and Environment Court, the Land and Environment Court and the Supreme Court. This can take several years – years that can be extremely valuable for the climate but also for investors who want to be at the global forefront in the pursuit of sustainable solutions to, for example, our energy and transport needs. The Christian Democrats therefore propose the introduction of a fast track for strategic climate-related projects. A permit process for strategically important climate projects should take a maximum of 12 months. The announcement already exists since the Parliamentary Session 2016/ 17. Why aren't you acting? Thirdly, I would like to mention the cleaning of the halo. It seems that there is an unwillingness on the part of the government to implement measures that are of great importance if they do not have a clear self-refining or moralising effect. It is true that we need to change parts of our way of life in order to achieve the climate goals. However, in addition to the fact that we need to start significant reductions in emissions in Sweden, we need to recognise the need for complementary measures. The target of 1.5°C cannot be achieved simply by changing our production and consumption patterns. Sweden needs to contribute more actively to the global climate target. International climate investments have significantly higher cost-effectiveness than measures taken in Sweden. The Christian Democrats therefore want to increase climate aid by an additional SEK 1 billion per year. We also want to use technology to collect and store carbon dioxide. Although the technology has been proven, the Green Party has so far been rather averse to carbon storage. Only through the pressure of the Center Party has such a venture now found its way into the state budget. We should also acknowledge the potential of active forestry to capture carbon dioxide and store it in products, i.e. substitution. That is why tomorrow's decision in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture on LULUCF is also extremely important for the climate, not only for Sweden's fantastic forest industries. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the climate, we need to address other important environmental problems. I am thinking mainly of the state of our seas and the spread of toxins and debris. Plastic is the most common material in various types of litter. Many of the plastic products are disposable or are only used for a short period of time. It is important to reduce plastic litter as well as to avoid fossil plastic burning with accompanying carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere. Economic incentives are often effective and would probably also have an effect on increasing plastic recycling. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that Sweden works for the introduction of an international new manufacturing fee on plastic made from fossil materials. This would also increase the recycling value of plastics. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we must be able to have several thoughts in the environmental and climate debate at the same time if we are to achieve the desired result. Otherwise, our climate work will be as effective as sitting in a rocking chair. You do something for the moment, but it doesn't lead forward.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-585	Mr President, I would like to It's time to talk about a workshop in climate policy. I would like to ask Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson a question about the slaughter of climate investments by the Christian Democrats: climate change, industry and the urban environment agreements. In the spring I had the privilege to visit one of the companies that received investment support through the Climate Centre together with Svenskt N häringsliv. We went to Östervåla in Norduppland and Zetterberg's industry, which manufactures truck chassis. They have been able to identify energy efficiency measures and implement them in cooperation with the Energy Office in Mälardalen. They have converted the ventilation in the painting plant into a demand-adapted solution with high-efficiency heat recovery. The change means reduced energy consumption and reduced power requirements. Carbon dioxide emissions have been reduced by 100 tonnes per year by this measure. If the Christian Democrats had been allowed to govern Sweden, that kind of project would not have existed. How can the Christian Democrats go forward with a policy in which they reduce the opportunities for Swedish small businesses to be at the forefront, to become more profitable, to hire more and to reduce climate emissions?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-588	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, it is about being able to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. This is a matter of priorities. We prioritise other elements of our climate and environmental budget. Maria Gardfjell knows very well that the climate life has been beaten by many experts. Therefore, we have considered that the climate life in its present form should be removed. Instead, we want to invest in, among other things, bioproduction, i.e. to take advantage of what the Swedish forest provides to get aviation fuel that is significantly less dangerous than what we have today. It is about the production of hydrogen, for example, plus some other things. At the same time, it is a matter of priorities. Over 90 000 people have been waiting illegally for surgery. For them it is extremely important to receive care. It's really about life and death and that now. On the news today we can see about it in Uppsala, Gislaved, Trollhättan and Malmö. We've invested more money in security. It's about life and death for people right now. At the same time, we are investing in climate and environmental measures. So it is important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. The efforts made on climate and environmental measures must also be those that make real use of them. The Swedish National Audit Office's report has mentioned, among other things, that the Climate Centre has a long way to go.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-593	Mr President, I would like to I certainly have a great deal of concern about the problems that currently exist with the economy of municipalities and regions around Sweden. As a former municipal politician, I also know how hard our colleagues around the country are working to overcome the problems. It is certainly not just a matter for the state budget, but it is the local and regional budgets that need to be worked on on these issues. Mr President, I would like to I still have a question for the Christian Democrats. All kinds of climate investments, such as climate change, are being phased out and the investments made in urban development agreements are being removed. Then who's supposed to do the job? O how to get started the investments needed for climate change?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-595	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that Maria Gardfjell is also concerned. I hope that the government can also show it and do things that actually have an effect on health care and safety. I thought that in Parliament's seats we would stick to the truth. It is not true that we are cutting back on and removing all efforts on the environment and the climate. It's all wrong. I mentioned some of the investments in my previous response. We're betting on other things that actually do us some good. It is not a question of symbolism or placard politics. These are initiatives that are more useful, such as a fast track, which would help the major industries, which are the major emitters. There's already an announcement from 2016/17. It's clear. It's only for the government to act. But the government is not acting. Maria Gardfjell has no more chances of answering. But it's interesting that you have as low a hanging fruit as you don't take. It is more frightening, Mr President.
i-6gP3f2A3fENRFcbo8ey5ec	Mr President, I would like to In 1972, air pollution, acidified lakes, and dangerous environmental toxins in nature were major societal problems that threatened human health. The same year, on the initiative of the Social Democratic Government led by Olof Palme, the first global UN environmental meeting was held in Stockholm. In 2022 it is 50 years since that first meeting. The government will therefore work for a Swedish host of a global high-level meeting that year. Several of the environmental objectives are lagging behind, and there is still a need to gather strength around some of today's major challenges. One of the biggest issues today is the climate threat. Ice melts, sea levels rise and deserts spread worldwide. In our own country, droughts and forest fires have become increasingly common in recent years. According to researchers, the consequences are expected to be disastrous if we fail to reverse developments within a period of less than ten years. It is up to us today to change to have a planet at all to inherit our children and grandchildren. Mr President, I would like to We are defined by our actions. Therefore, the starting point for global climate policy must be a fair climate change transition based on solidarity between countries and people and where no one is left behind. On the contrary, while global warming is a threat, climate policy is an opportunity. By acting, there are great benefits for society to bring back in the form of new jobs, improved public health and economic growth. In order to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement, Agenda 2030 and the UN Global Biodiversity Strategy, the Government believes that strong environmental and climate research is needed. The research is important to create a solid scientific basis and a basis for finding solutions to address global climate and environmental challenges. The Swedish Parliament has adopted a goal that Sweden should not have net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045 at the latest and then achieve negative emissions. To achieve this, major investments and technological leaps are needed. We will need emission reductions in all sectors and throughout the country. Climate change is an investment aid that during the previous mandate supported over 3 200 projects, including over 30 000 charging points. It is expected to contribute with emission reductions corresponding to almost 3 per cent of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions. In order to strengthen work on climate change throughout the country, it is proposed to increase climate change by SEK 1.16 billion. One sector with major challenges and great potential for emission reductions is the Swedish industry. In order to support technological leaps, industrial change and negative emission measures, it is proposed to strengthen the industrial environment by SEK 300 million per year. To cope with the emission reductions in the transport sector, we need to increase both the production and use of biofuels and increase electrification. The Government is making several efforts to promote research and development of sustainable biofuels, and to accelerate electrification an electrification commission will be appointed. The whole of Sweden should be able to be part of the climate change transition. Therefore, SEK 50 million per year over a three-year period will go to expand charging infrastructure along the major roads in Sweden. The Government also considers that there is a need for support for electrified trucks and machines. It is high-emission sectors that need to reduce in order for Sweden to reach the national climate target for reducing emissions in transport. Sweden's emissions decreased in 2018. We still have a lot of work to do, both at home and as global climate leaders. In the coming years, emissions will have to be reduced more quickly. But it is gratifying to see that climate policy is delivering results. Mr President, I would like to There is still a great need for long-term protection of valuable forests and marine areas to ensure biodiversity, important ecosystem services and opportunities for outdoor life. Resources for protecting valuable nature and strengthening nature conservation and biodiversity are therefore proposed to be strengthened by a total of 600 million. Mr President, I would like to It is important that we take care of our aquatic environments and that we deal with environmental sins from the past. Even if we don't see what's underneath, we have a responsibility for it. In order to improve the health of, among other things, our inner sea Baltic Sea and protect our water supply, the Government proposes that SEK 240 million be invested in measures for the marine and aquatic environment. Measures against eutrophication will be implemented, inter alia, within the framework of local water management projects and through increased cooperation between the Baltic Sea countries. Around Sweden there are environmental debts that need to be addressed. Environmental toxins in sediments, for example, can spread to the surrounding aquatic environment, which poses a threat to both human health and the environment. A further SEK 65 million will therefore go to work on the clean-up of contaminated soils, water, sediments and environmentally hazardous wrecks. Mr President, I would like to Social democracy has never shuddered from a challenge. We will do what is necessary to protect our nature and our seas and to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and to do a fair climate transition. It is only together that we can achieve the objectives. I support the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's proposal for a decision.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-615	Mr President, I would like to Let me first correct Marlene Burwick: If you are counting on international transport, emissions in Sweden have increased by 2% over the last two years. But that was not my question. More and more reports show that we need more electricity in the future, not less, if we are to meet the climate challenges. As I said in my speech, we want to see a future for both nuclear power, hydroelectric power, solar power and wind power. The energy mix we have in Sweden is good. Instead, our common enemy should be oil and coal, not nuclear power. Sweden's electricity needs will increase, and this means that we will develop society and reduce oil dependence while meeting the climate targets. The plan for increased use of electricity appears to be based on an electricity demand of at least 200 terawatt hours in 2045 if all commitments are to be met. We therefore need all non-fossil energies and an extended electricity grid. It's crucial. This is the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, IVA and Energy companies agree on. So at least 200 terawatt hours are needed in 2045. How do the Social Democrats think that we will be able to solve this when we close nuclear power, and at what cost? That's my question to Marlene Burwick.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-619	Mr President, I would like to The entry into force of the Social Democrats is that the agreements that are actually being concluded should be kept. This is also something that Swedish industry very much expects from the Riksdag. After Fukushima, the world's leading experts made new rules for the safety of nuclear power plants. We need independent cooling of the reactor core for 72 hours. It is this investment that, on a market-based basis, causes Vattenfall to close Ringhals 1 and 2. These are not political decisions. The Energy Agreement does not say anything about nuclear power having to be shut down, but we Social Democrats do not want to use tax money to subsidise new nuclear power – money that needs to go to welfare instead. In that case, it needs to be done on a market-based basis. My question to the Christian Democrats is: Why does one leave an agreement that is so important to Swedish competitiveness?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-623	Mr President, I would like to What is important for Swedish competitiveness is that Swedish industry has electricity and safe and secure power supply. It is far more important than anything else, because without it they must not do any of what they are supposed to do. I was on Gotland in early December and heard a little bit about how it works every time the power goes on Cementa in Slite. It takes incredibly long before they can start up their process again, and they lose a lot of money. Such things are far more important than an energy agreement that does not prove to be working. Unfortunately, the resistance to nuclear power seems to be more important than saving the climate. According to Sweco, it will require investments of more than SEK 1 500 billion by 2040 to guarantee security of supply without nuclear power. But the burden on the Swedish economy will be at least 1 000 billion less with new nuclear power. Why not invest in something that is actually cheaper and provides the electricity and security that Swedish companies require?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-626	Mr President, I would like to For the Social Democrats, it is important to keep in the energy agreement, which does not say anything about when nuclear power will be closed. Sweden has a liberalised electricity market, and the cost of new nuclear power is today considerably higher than for new wind power. It is the market that needs to respond to the investment that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson asks for. When I meet representatives of Hybrid, they say that their entire business model, which will require a great deal of electricity, is based on the use of locally produced renewable electricity to produce hydrogen which is then stored. The hydrogen layer, which they then produce, will also serve as a buffer throughout the electricity system. One of the most important research projects in Swedish industry today is therefore based entirely on renewable electricity. This is something that the Christian Democrats seem to have completely missed. The latest forecasts also show that the electricity surplus will increase in Sweden despite the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-630	Mr President, I would like to It can be said that the Green Party is keeping its pace on this issue. No one really knows what the climate policy of the Social Democrats is all about. Do you, like representatives of the Green Party, want companies to go bankrupt? Do you think Volvo is a climate villain? Do you think that Swedish exports should decrease or increase? These are unanswered questions. The only thing the voters know is that the Social Democrats are using climate policy to fund irresponsible welfare policies. It is called chemical tax, combustion tax and plastic bag tax for climate and environmental taxes, while all the experts who have examined this show that it is only for the purpose of collecting money to fund other policies. We therefore know that the Social Democrats are pursuing irresponsible economic policies when the country is in crisis with gang shootings, sexual crimes and insecurity. Despite this, it is claimed that climate taxes will be collected and funding grant expenditure. It is a great pity that Sweden's largest party so far lets a small party hold its pace on two of Sweden's most important issues at the moment: immigration and the climate. I must therefore ask Mrs Burwick whether the Social Democrats are satisfied, on the one hand, with the pace of emission reductions, which we do not know is taking place quickly enough, and, on the other hand, with the closure of nuclear power. Are the Social Democrats satisfied with this?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-634	Mr President, I would like to For the Social Democrats, Swedish competitiveness, Swedish companies and Swedish industry are very important. There's Louise Meijer's answer. I would like an answer from Louise Meijer. Just now, the Swedish Democrats stood in the speaker's chair and told us that it was not so urgent to bring emissions down. It was not so very important with the climate targets that we have set in the Swedish parliament. And it doesn't seem like you want to live up to the Paris Agreement. That is why I have a question for Louise Meijer and the Moderates, who now want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats: how do you view climate policy in this cooperation? Under the Paris Agreement, all countries are obliged to achieve emission reductions in their own countries as well. It's about taking your own responsibility, Louise Meijer. Do the Moderates believe that Sweden should take the climate threat seriously and live up to the Paris Agreement, unlike the representatives of the Swedish Democrats?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-637	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats will of course be responsible for the policy of the Swedish Democrats. What I wonder is: why do the Social Democrats use climate policy as a source of funding for the policy on subsidies? How can it be that the only thing you hear about when it comes to the Social Democrats' climate policy is taxes? It is taxes that are claimed to be climate and environmental taxes, but in practice it is a question of financing an expansive spending policy. It makes no sense to me. I would like to ask Mrs Burwick: how is it that climate policy is used as a sounding board and a trampoline to finance other expenditure in the budget? It is not fair for a climate policy at present.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-639	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats are responsible for a fair climate change. This also means that the whole country can be in that transition. In this transition, for example, we need support for people and companies throughout the country to be able to participate. This is not something you just make up in Stockholm. If you are to cope with a climate change situation seriously, all of Sweden needs to be involved. It is funny that Louise Meijer, who has spent her time asking me what the Green Party thinks, cannot respond to something that is incredibly important to the voters, namely what cooperation between the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats can have for climate policy. And Louise Meijer was unable to explain in a word the numerical tension that the Moderates are doing by moving 2 billion from the aid budget to cover the holes in the environmental budget. It's amazing.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-642	Mr President, I would like to I noted when we had the corresponding debate a year ago the sad thing about belonging to a generation that will have to get used not only to setting environmental targets but also to the fact that set environmental targets are not being met until the time we have said. We can see that again this year. Of the 16 environmental quality objectives we have in the country, we reach with instruments 2. With regard to the remaining objectives, it is doubtful whether we will achieve them. The development is partly positive, partly negative. With regard to 5 of our 16 environmental quality objectives, we have negative developments. We have had a fairly long debate on one of the environmental quality objectives. I want to start with that. This is what concerns a reduced impact on the earth's climate. I and the Center Party are convinced that Sweden has a responsibility not only to ourselves in the fight for a world where we do not have a negative impact on the climate of the earth and where we do not have global warming. We also have an international responsibility, and we have opportunities for Swedish society, Swedish industry and Swedish jobs in the climate transition. You can sometimes get the impression that environmental and climate work is something that we take on, that it is a burden for Swedish companies, Swedish people and Swedish society that we take on for someone else's sake. That is simply not true. We take on environmental and climate work to build a better world for ourselves, but also because we are convinced that there is a value in that transition. This is where we will create new jobs in Sweden in green technology and with our renewable resources, and it will be an important part of building Swedish society strong in the future. Unfortunately, Mr President, the achievement of the objectives agreed internationally and jointly in the Paris Agreement does not in every way look bright. Global emissions are increasing. Thankfully, we have a slightly decreasing emission curve in Sweden, but here too we are below what we would have to achieve. And we all know in this House, I hope, what the consequences will be if we are not able jointly to achieve our goals. It is distressing when we see a contradiction between making efforts in Sweden and having a responsibility globally. I shall not go into too much in development policy and trade policy. It concerns other emission areas and other parts of the budget. But it is not that we have only one responsibility internationally. Sweden must also be able to demonstrate how developed and rich countries can change. The climate challenge is not solved only in emerging countries. It is solved not only in middle-income countries, such as China and India, but also developed countries must be able to take their share of the responsibility. On this basis, I am pleased with the draft budget on the table, Mr President. It is not just the largest environmental and climate budget ever. It also focuses more on the right things. This budget is a real green tax shift. It is not only the case that environmental taxes are being increased, but it is also the case that taxes on what is good for the environment and taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship are being reduced. The overall tax burden is reduced. It is something that I, which is economically liberal, think is very good for Swedish society and for Swedish entrepreneurship. That is exactly what a green tax exchange means. When we put taxes on what is bad for the environment, we will also be able to reduce taxes in other areas. I am pleased with the investments made in research and development and in maintaining the handshake that we have made with Swedish industry to reduce Swedish emissions, even in important basic industries and important industries. I am pleased that we are beginning to implement what we agree on in the January agreement. I am pleased with the gains that are there on consumption-based emissions and sustainable aviation fuel. These are the right steps to achieve a circular economy. We will review the possibility of a product passport and develop the Climate Act later during the term of office. This transition is not only about taxing what is bad, but also about building the opportunities for the circular economy and showing how the transition should take place. I believe, Mr President, that this is exactly what we are doing at least with the autumn budget and with the January agreement. I am more concerned about the frivolity that we see in Swedish politics right now about the long-term nature of the framework we put in place for business. I know what a brake block it was for the companies that developed biofuels last parliamentary term when the conditions were unclear. I do not think that it is when someone who benefits from us from politics is unable to provide clear and straightforward conditions for how Swedish companies will develop and which instruments will apply. Mr President, I would like to I would like to use a few minutes of my speech to talk about some of the other 16 environmental quality objectives. Everything is not just a climate challenge. We also have major challenges with regard to biodiversity in Sweden. It is about preserving the biological heritage of future generations, preserving resilience in Swedish nature and taking advantage of the ecosystem services that benefit society as a whole. Here I think politics needs to take serious steps. I and the Center Party are pleased that the investments in, for example, living wetlands are being strengthened. It is something that is not only good for biodiversity and for nature. It is also about emergency preparedness and security of supply. The day we dry, we know there's water in the landscape. After the years we have had, it becomes clear to more and more people that they must be able to combine social and environmental benefits. More money to restore wetlands is a typical example of how we can achieve it. I am also a little concerned about where the focus of the debate on biodiversity ends up. When I say biodiversity in this House, many people start to think directly about forests. Of course, it is valuable that we manage to keep the balance between production and natural values. However, we must not forget that we should not only be able to protect biodiversity in the forest. We also need to think about how we do things in marine and coastal areas. Above all, we must realise that we are very bad at doing so in the landscape between the clean agricultural landscape and the forest. Here we have endangered species that are threatened because we have too little tradition rather than too much protection. It is a challenge that we have not been able to deal with politically, which I think it is worth our real return to and reflection on in this parliamentary term and in the years to come. How does the policy manage to help deliver the conditions for biodiversity and for those who defend it by asserting the landscape? Mr President, I would like to I will conclude my speech with the political cliché that I am proud of what the Center Party has managed to deliver in the budget. I am proud of the negotiations that we have conducted, but I am not satisfied.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-660	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Mr President, I would like to The UN's 17 global targets for 2030 are so important. Today, on a visit to my own municipality of residence, I found that the local work that is going on is absolutely fantastic. It is about making the global goals the local ones. We all know that environmental issues are both local and global. There is a strong commitment in municipalities that want to go ahead. They feel the commitment of their citizens and not least of the young generations. The environmental target system is the environmental dimension of Agenda 2030 and an important tool for implementing Agenda 2030. Digitalisation creates opportunities within society. It is extremely important for us to move forward on the issues. It is about digitising and making available environmental information and thus creating better conditions for authorities, companies, organisations and individuals to make environmental initiatives and environmentally smart choices. I note that there are differences between the parties in Parliament. While the government and the cooperation parties want to make big efforts on digitalisation, there are other parties that want to reduce or pull the carpet away from those efforts. The question then arises as to what the consequences will be of not using these opportunities to make the absolute best of environmental policy. Work on designing and prioritising environmental policy is based, among other things, on the results of environmental monitoring. Environmental monitoring has a strategic role to play in developing and following up work on the Swedish environmental objectives. But environmental monitoring also plays an important role in the development of environmental quality standards and assessment criteria. At international level, the results of environmental monitoring are the basis for international reporting and official statistics on the state of the environment. When proposals are made to suspend resources to make this possible, the question arises: What are the consequences? Why is environmental monitoring not important? The spread of harmful organisms from protected natural areas has been debated last week. I would like to return to the question of what it looks like in the protected areas. This also applies to nature reserves and areas with biotop protection. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has developed a guide to the measures that the county administrative boards should take in the event of an attack of spruce bark in protected areas. In a letter to all county boards in May 2019, comments were also made on how to act in the protected areas. To support the work of the county administrative boards, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has produced up-to-date data on spruce forests and grandominated forests in protected areas and areas that are relevant for becoming a nature reserve as well as in surrounding landscapes. The budget proposal also states that the State has a major responsibility to take measures to reduce the spread of spruce bark from protected areas. Therefore, it has also been added SEK 30 million to be able to handle forest damage and to support the work, which is very important. In addition to the above efforts, an investigation has also been set up to strengthen ownership of forests and to propose new flexible forms of protection and compensation. Mr President, I would like to Biodiversity has not been debated much here today. But what we in the Liberals really want to emphasise is that biodiversity can also be combined with a growing circular bioeconomy. It is therefore gratifying that the Government and the cooperation parties have set up an investigation to be reported on 1 July 2020. As regards the climate category, which has been mentioned, I note that the Liberals have had their views on climate change historically. However, it can also be noted in the budget proposal that the comments received will now be taken into account and taken into account in the further work. I note in the evidence that 30 000 charging points have been added with the help of climate change. 3 336 applications were submitted in order to do so. We in the Liberals stand up for electrification as an important part of social development and environmental work. In this respect, we note that climate change has improved the conditions for continuing electrification. Another area that is important to touch on is the investment in alternative fuels and biofuels. This is particularly true in aviation, where there is now a major effort to develop new fuels. The Swedish Energy Agency has a mission to set up innovation clusters that bring together the entire value chain and produce a common needs analysis to cope with the transition to fossil freedom in aviation. There is therefore a great deal of work going on here too, which must nevertheless be pointed out. Among the projects is a study on large-scale production of fossil-free aviation fuel in Östersund and to investigate the conditions for Swedish production of biofuels for aviation. Mr President, I would like to Climate change leads to extreme weather and natural disasters both in Sweden and in the rest of the world. There are many of us who respect the Swedish who, through their commitment, have raised the issues at a global level, namely Greta Thunberg. Climate change affects all life on earth. In order to save the climate and create a cleaner future for future generations, we must act. We need to make decisions that make a difference in both the long and the short term. We will tackle the climate challenge with a mix of crisis insight, future confidence and realism. Science, facts and technology development will contribute to the solutions. The market economy and free trade drive sustainable solutions. Digitalisation, which I started by mentioning, and the collaborative economy paves the way for new climate-smart consumption patterns. The climate threat knows no borders, and it requires solutions within the EU and in global environmental and climate action. Sweden must be a driving force. Mr President, I would like to conclude with a piece of Evert Taubes' s sage. Call it the angelic land or the heavenly earth if you want the Earth we inherited and the grove the green Wild Roses and blue bells and linden flowers and chamomile Let them live, they are so beautiful
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-681	Mr President, I would like to I'll take this opportunity to thank you for your rhyme in Agenda yesterday! I support the committee's proposal. Although the climate meeting in Madrid was somewhat disappointing, two positive news came here in Sweden in the midst of burning climate negotiations. First of all, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency announced on Thursday that Sweden's climate emissions are now falling even further. The fact that Sweden is building an effective climate policy on economic instruments that are gradually changing Sweden is why we are now reducing emissions. We also have strong investments in climate change, and we have a greener industrial policy with the Industrial Cluster. We have municipalities, organisations and companies that go ahead. Secondly, the news came on Friday that all parties in parliament except the Swedish Democrats agreed on the government's and the EU's goal of climate neutrality in 2050. Now we are tightening up the targets, and that is necessary. The fact that we're so broad together is important. Now we need to step up the pace of climate change further. J ag is more determined than ever to work to make 2020 by the year when all countries commit to doing what science tells us is necessary to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, and do not see temperatures rise by more than 1.5 degrees. This was the comment of UN Secretary-General António Guterres following the Madrid climate summit. Next year, the emission curve needs to turn sharply downwards. The increase in global emissions must be broken. The reports from the UN Panel on Climate Change make it perfectly clear that the difference between 1.5 and 2 degrees is about a choice between decent living conditions for the people of the earth and a very great suffering for many people who populate this planet. Ecosystems that reach tipping points and cascade effects that are triggered lead to an even greater increase in temperature. Mr President, I would like to Business as usual is not possible. There is a need for clarity and a long-term policy, and there is a need for broader cooperation and sustainable settlements. In the book Shop environmentally friendly, which came in the 1990s– yes, I have worked with environmental issues for quite some time– there was a saying that was like this: No one has been so wrong as he who didn't think you could do anything just because you could do so little. I usually think about this when the discussion goes hot in this House, because all the steps in the right direction are welcome – big and small. Even a small country can be a great example, and efficiency is not waiting for the optimal solution. The solutions only come if you work hard and make up for them. Now the emission curve in Sweden is changing, and now we need to speed up. I would like to pay tribute to everyone who works hard with climate work around the country – and especially to Fossil-free Sweden, who collaborates with companies and organisations to develop roadmaps for sustainable economic and environmental development. Now we also need to change our consumer footprint and work much harder to help other countries also reduce their emissions. We must involve the citizens and create the conditions for us to reduce emissions together. We also have many role models – I am thinking of Greta and all the young people involved, I am thinking of the Climate Municipalities and I am thinking of companies that dare to pioneer on a voluntary basis with green business models and new innovations. I am thinking of the researchers who draw up the facts, and I am thinking of the farmers and foresters who contribute to carbon sequestration in the land every day. There are so many of you! No one can do anything, but everyone can do something. Now that we are aiming to be climate positive, we need to have a more positive approach. We have the 17 sustainability goals in Agenda 2030 and the environmental objectives to work with, and they are all important. To achieve the climate target, we also need to cope with biodiversity and social objectives. Sweden will become a fossil-free welfare nation. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday I walked by Fyrisån in Uppsala. It's hugely high water level right now. I am afraid that climate change, with more extreme weather events, will lead to serious floods in Uppsala – but also in very many other places. Many socially important functions may be affected by the floods. I would say that we have great knowledge but that we must also start using this knowledge at all levels of society. Too many municipalities continue to grant building permits on land that may be flooded. Unfortunately, in the study on beach protection to be carried out, the climate adjustment perspective is not sufficiently included. However, it must be taken into account when future decisions are to be taken. Strandskydden has helped Sweden to be better equipped than many other countries against natural damage to buildings and infrastructure. The fact that investments in buildings, electricity grids and other infrastructure are diverted from the beaches actually reduces our vulnerability. The fact that the Green Party is in the government means great progress for nature, the environment and climate. Together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the government parties have a budget that ensures that we in Sweden have a government where solidarity has a vote and racism does not. We have a budget that gives priority to nature, the environment and climate. The alternative to the January agreement is not a policy that is closer to the values of the Green Party, unfortunately, but the alternative is a right-wing government where people turn against each other. The Government makes a valuable investment in nature for SEK 400 million per year. The bet is multifaceted. It reduces the risk of drought by the formation of wetlands, it fights invasive species and it invests in the skin of the joints. Everyone who has walked in the mountains in recent years has probably noticed that the work with improved mountain trees started already last term. In the government, the Green Party has contributed 200 km of equipped mountain villages, 200 footbridges and about a hundred rest shelters. Now Sweden is gathering further so that safety, accessibility and accessibility can increase on the mountain trails. The hiking trails also receive their own post in the state budget. Both me and the mountain rescue care that those who for the first time come to the mountains are more prepared and have equipment and much needed knowledge. Therefore, we are making an increased investment of SEK 3 million to the outdoor organisations ahead of Friluftslivets in 2021.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-699	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates know that our Swedish exports help to reduce emissions globally. We therefore want to ensure that our Swedish industry has the conditions for growth and competitiveness. Mr President, I would like to I note that a representative of one of the government parties, who is partly responsible for the climate issue, wishes companies to go bankrupt, and whom he does not wish to go bankrupt, he portrays as climate criminals. My question to Maria Gardfjell is therefore what view the Green Party really has on our Swedish companies and how the Green Party views the role of companies in the transition. I have one more question. To make the decommissioning of fossil-free electricity into a parade issue during a burning climate crisis is incredible for me, especially when it comes from the Green Party, which says it wants to protect fossil freedom. I wonder why the Green Party is pursuing a policy that shuts down nuclear power.
i-71u9CenLDURiXq8f58tVQ3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Louise Meijer, for the questions! Any politician can say crazy things at some point. I know Lorentz Tovatt has apologized for his statement, so I will not go into that further. As regards climate change, what Louise Meijer mentioned is extremely important. This is also about the future opportunities for Sweden to secure exports and jobs around Sweden. That is why it is very important to invest in the restructuring of the industry. It would be very negative not to make the investments in the industrial environment or the climate investments in climate change that we are now making in Sweden. The Moderates like to talk about Sweden outside Stockholm when it comes to the reduction of petrol taxes, but your petrol tax cuts actually go to motorists in the big cities to a very large extent. At the moment, a huge amount of investment is being made in the production of renewable energy. We have had a doubling of the investments in wind power, to 37 terawatt hours, and a quadruple of the solar electricity, to 1.3 terawatt hours. Although Ringhals 1 and 2 will be shut down, it is expected that exports of electricity will be able to increase. There is no shortage of electricity in Sweden. On the other hand, we have a lack of power in many growing cities, and we will not solve that by expanding nuclear power.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-709	Mr President, I would like to I hope the Green Party is not satisfied with the climate book and climate statement after five years in the government. Since the start of the Red Green Government, led by the Green Party, in 2014, emissions reductions have been between 1 and 2 per cent per year, although we know that emissions and reductions must be between 5 and 8 per cent per year. What I wonder is whether the Green Party is satisfied with the results of the climate policy pursued. I almost assume you're not, but I'm not quite sure. If you are not, what do you want to do to ensure that the pace of emissions reduction is increasing?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-712	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Green Party is not satisfied with the rate of emissions when it comes to climate emissions, and the truth is that it is quite easy to answer why it is what it is. After all, we have had a very weak government for two terms without a majority of our own. If the government had had its own majority, and if the Green Party had had more support in the last elections, we could have done a lot more. Of course, I think it would be fun if the Moderates now join the tough initiatives that the Green Party thinks are needed. We need much stronger instruments. We also need to increase climate taxes and make a green and strong tax shift where we raise environmental taxes and lower taxes on jobs and welfare.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-714	Mr President, I would like to There was much to be done in Maria Gardfjell's speech. There were some priorities I was thinking about, given the challenges we face. I want to start by correcting Maria Gardfjell, just as I did with Marlene Burwick. In terms of external transport, emissions have increased by 2% during this period – they have not decreased, as the representative said in his speech. My question concerns what I mentioned in my speech, namely the green sour cream. There is an announcement from the Parliamentary Session 2016/17. For those who are present in this House, I will give some reading out of letter 75, which we discussed in committee last spring: In September 2017, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has presented proposals for a model for the annual preparation and presentation of statistics on environmental permit trials in response to assignments in the 2017 regulatory letter. The County Administrative Boards and the Swedish National Courts have since in February and March 2018 presented additional assignments in regulation letters for 2018 on how they can contribute to a coherent statistical report on environmental testing. The Government has commissioned the county administrative boards and the National Court of Justice to: By 2020, contribute to a coherent statistical reporting. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been given the task of preparing for the agency from the beginning. 2021 can be responsible for receiving, compiling, analysing and presenting the statistics provided by other authorities. The item is not finished. ..................................................... Thank God the point is not finished! My question to Maria Gardfjell is: Why did they screw up such a good focus both for the environment and for the Swedish industry? It is not about statistics, it is about getting fast track for strategic climate-related projects. It's not about collecting statistics. Why has the government not made any progress on this issue since it has had so many years? That's my question.
i-JhH2Lab6KULkDZBt6JWfPk	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the questions! I will begin with the question of travel abroad. Unfortunately, it is quite right that air travel is increasing sharply and has been doing so for a long time. Foreign travel is counted as consumption emissions in the climate, so they are not included in the Swedish territorial emissions. It is very important to remember that the Green Party is the party in the Swedish parliament that may have the sharpest toolbox when it comes to measures against increased air travel in the form of higher air taxes. It is an issue that we are not ashamed of being driven very hard in the negotiations that we are in. We have also come some way towards higher air taxes, but I think we need to raise them further in order to reduce air travel and bring down the figure mentioned by Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson. As regards the state of the environment and why it is shown in the budget that statistics are collected, I do not think it is so strange to report that authorities collect statistics in different contexts. All kinds of decisions need to be based on facts and research.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-726	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, emissions in the year of the Alliance fell by 19% and, if we are counting on foreign transport, they fell by 18% – just so that is said. For example, we invest in biojets and electric flights in our budget. In Norway, electric flights will be in commercial operation by 2023, so there are absolutely solutions for aviation. But that was not my main question, but the green sour cream. Statistical collection is one thing, but it does not save the environment. It's a workshop we're talking about here. So here it is a matter of getting a fast track so that we do not have to break through in all kinds of courthouses that I messed up in my speech. The Green Party often persists in the urgent need to save the environment and the climate. How long, then, are we going to keep collecting statistics instead of going to a workshop?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-730	Mr President, I would like to Christian Democrats cut nearly SEK 2 billion on climate investments. And now Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson boasts that they invest SEK 20 million per year in work for simplified licensing processes for companies that want to invest in technology that reduces emissions. That's exactly what the Climatist's working on. In a previous replica with Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, I took an example, Zetterberg, a company in Norduppland that manufactures truck chassis. They have just been helped by the Energy Office in Mälardalen to identify what simpler processes they can use to speed up the climate transition. I do not believe that a reduction of 2 billion would justify a 20 million investment.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-733	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report. I find it interesting to reflect a little on global emissions on the one hand and territorial emissions on the other. I read a report from the IVA, which is very comprehensive and I think the most comprehensive report has been written on how to reduce emissions from agriculture in the light of the 2045 target. In principle, it has been assumed that all sectors will go down to zero, but that certain emissions in the agricultural sector will still have to be allowed, otherwise they will probably not be able to produce anything at all. It has then had to be assumed that agriculture will produce as much food as it is today. The report mentions that Swedish agriculture provides much more climate-friendly food than any other country. Our eggs and milk are sky high on the lists of foods that can be produced with the least emissions. The authors themselves reason that perhaps the best thing would be for us to become self-sufficient in food and even export our food. However, according to the CO2 budget, it is not enough if we are to achieve the 2045 target, but the only emissions that will in principle remain are from agriculture. Despite very ambitious efforts with carbon storage and the removal of all fossil fuels, it is nevertheless concluded that we cannot increase production. My question to the honourable Member is this: is there not a conflict between territorial emissions, on which we are focusing, and global emissions? Perhaps we could have a little higher territorial emissions but reduce global emissions if we could produce even more food in Sweden.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-738	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Martin Kinnunen! It is extremely important to remember that we have a climate law in Sweden that says that we must work both with national, territorial emissions and with emissions from the trading sector and that these jobs are just as important. It is a pleasure that the honourable Member raises the report from IVA on the climate impact of agriculture. I also think it is a very interesting and good report. However, some criticism of the report was highlighted in a panel debate at the Royal Swedish Academy of Forestry and Agriculture in connection with the presentation of the report. Part of the criticism was that the report had not described sufficiently clearly how Swedish agriculture can become fossil-free both in terms of diesel use and the use of diesel indirectly in the production of fertilizers and other inputs. It is, of course, a very important issue to raise, and it is also a question of self-sufficiency. The Green Party believes that we need to increase our self-sufficiency of food in Sweden. It is also an objective that is included in the Swedish Food Strategy. I am pleased that the evaluation group that we have in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture has developed a basis to look at precisely the self-sufficiency and vulnerability of agriculture, because it is indeed a very important issue.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-743	Mr President, I would like to It's an interesting discussion. But one criticism that also came out against the report was that it is based on very loose hopes, that this is the top of the line and that one cannot hope for much more. Again to the core: We could produce more food and reduce emissions globally. But we may not be able to do that, because we have to comply with the Climate Act. Wouldn't it be better to change the climate law if we can contribute to reducing emissions in the world by perhaps increasing them a little in Sweden? If we can produce even more steel in Sweden, we will reduce emissions in the world. If we can refine more oil in Sweden, we will also reduce emissions in Europe. It is very strange that we are starting from the emissions in Sweden. It's kind of like a dome around Sweden. The more we manufacture and produce in Sweden, the less emissions we contribute to in the world. Since we are so energy efficient in this country, we should try to produce more, not less. Why does the Green Party choose us to produce less in Sweden?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-746	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party fully supports the food strategy adopted by the Swedish Parliament, which is about producing more food in Sweden. We must increase the production of food in Sweden. We can also do it in a climate-smart and good way with more organic farming, with more methods that are more climate-smart and with a fossil-free agriculture, where we reduce the use of fertilizers and diesel in production. It is important to remember that the Swedish Democrats want to reduce the environmental and climate budget by SEK 4.1 billion, abolish environmental taxes of SEK 6 billion and reduce the tax on fuel by one krona. This doesn't inspire trust, Martin Kinnunen.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-750	Mr President, I would like to The waves of debate are high. But now there is a little pause in it, because now we are going to focus instead on the section of the report where we actually agree. There are such too – believe it if you like. It is about the follow-up of the Government's performance report for 2018, a follow-up that both the Government form and the Budget Act require all committees in the Swedish Parliament to do. The idea is that in this way we will get an answer as to whether the results were anticipated by the government and whether the laws decided by the Riksdag had the intended effect. In the Committee on Environment and Agriculture there is a special working group, comprising all parties, which has this as a special task. As in last year, we have looked at some of the 16 environmental quality objectives decided by Parliament already 20 years ago, 1999, which is quite impressive. Environmental quality objectives are important guiding principles for all political parties and for our work, and they are about everything from climate to forest and eutrophication. What does it look like? Some of our observations relate to the climate, which has, of course, been debated extensively in this House for several years and not least now in Madrid. It is gratifying to see that Swedish carbon dioxide emissions have decreased by 26 per cent since 1990. So big steps have been taken. This is all connected, and although emissions are falling in our country, emissions in other countries are increasing as a result of our own consumption of foreign products. It is therefore important to take the whole picture into account, which we want to stress. As far as the objective of eutrophication is concerned, the assessment team is surprised that the so-called LOVAs are not being used. It is about money that is set aside for work on wetlands, for example, and to minimise eutrophication in various ways. More funds have been spent than in previous years, but still 27% of the budgeted funds remain. We think that the government should analyse this so that we can find out why this is the case. Biodiversity has been mentioned, and it is also a relevant and topical area. As early as eight years ago, the evaluation group called for what action had been taken and what results it had achieved. This call remains and is urgent, not least in view of the reports published and shows that biodiversity in the world is declining faster than ever before. As regards the goal of the Non-toxic environment, the government argues that thanks to the systematic work of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, the issue has had a greater impact in the EU. This is of course gratifying, because the evaluation group believes that EU work is important for the impact to be great in Europe and the world. As you can see from the impact I have made, the declared environmental objectives are of great importance to both our time and the future. It is therefore important for the government to report the results of the efforts so that their impact can also be assessed. We understand that it is not easy given that it takes time before the results of the environmental measures taken are visible, but at the same time it is important to get a receipt of what is done and actually achieved with the resources invested. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we agree on the report drawn up by the evaluation team. Consensus prevails. Let me, however, in this last debate of the year, make a personal reflection. The chairman of the committee Kristina Yngwe and I met with a delegation from Indonesia this morning. They were here to see what Sweden is taking for concrete measures to achieve a more sustainable society. Much of the discussion, however, came to be about how to reach consensus. There they do not feel enough security and trust in each other to get large frameworks to extend over several terms of office. For the sake of the environment, we should therefore be grateful that we know trust in each other and regardless of political party works to achieve the goals, although we sometimes have a little different ways there. As I said, it was 20 years since the environmental quality objectives were set. Now we work with them and are on the trail, because everyone knows where we're going. Finally, I would like to extend warm thanks to everyone in the evaluation group and to the officials who have assisted us in the work. I hope for continued good cooperation.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-763	Mr President, I would like to Martin Kinnunen has already spoken about the SD budget for general environmental and nature conservation, so I will only dwell on the part relating to the forest. Forests make up 70 per cent of Sweden, so it is perhaps no wonder that our forestry and forest industry have become world leaders in many parts. Forestry is also a very important source of income for farmers as well as for employees and entrepreneurs in the entire forest sector. Almost all parties in this House have expressed their concern over the last year that areas protected, logging-prone forests have grown so rapidly in recent years and the consequences it may have for rural areas. Similarly, individual forest owners and their organisations have complained that forest protection processes are not equivalent or predictable for owners. The forest owners are often faced with a fait accompli without the opportunity to negotiate or give their views on the matter, although it is usually they who know their forest best and actually they own the forest. This concern from different parties and parties has led to a series of processes being launched to improve the situation. Firstly, the principle of proportionality has been strengthened since 2018. This means that before decisions are taken by authorities, it must be ensured that the benefit to the general is greater than the harm to the individual. We believe that, in most cases, the principle of proportionality should not hinder already planned fellings. Therefore, clear instructions from the government on how to apply this principle are needed. Secondly, at the request of the Riksdag, the Government has set up a ownership inquiry to review the forest owners' terms and conditions. It's due in the summer of 2020. In particular, the issue of compensation needs to be reviewed. Thirdly, the Swedish Forest Agency has just completed a round of consultations on key biotopes. We hope and ask that this will be the beginning of a process in which the Government and the Swedish Forest Board work together to resolve the lock-up to the issue. In addition, certification bodies and forest industry companies have contributed to a legal uncertainty for forest owners, who lose large revenues without a right to compensation. Fourthly, the Riksdag of the Government has requested that the species protection regulation be reviewed. At the time Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog promised in 2018 to set up an investigation into this. We're still waiting for that. Finally, a project on green infrastructure plans was completed in 2018. We believe that the basic position should be that individual forestry should not be included in the work on green infrastructure, as this would mean transferring a lot of power from landowners to county officials. For these reasons, we want the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of the Environment to use these processes together to really improve the situation for forest owners, rural areas, farmers, nature and Sweden. Until these processes are completed, further efforts to prevent fellings should be reduced to a minimum to protect forests in the event of an acute threat of species and to resolve outstanding compensation cases. That is why we have cut back on the protection of a valuable nature. There's so much hanging in the air that needs to be investigated. When it is done, we are ready to take this discussion again.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-774	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats want to build a stronger and safer society throughout Sweden. Our priorities in this year's budget are welfare and security. The fact that we have a society that holds together and works is as important in Kiruna, Stockholm and Ystad as in Norsjö. The area of the environment and climate, which we are discussing today, is also important. Mr President, I would like to We are fully debating MJU1 on general environmental and nature conservation. The differences are fundamental to last year when we stood here. A scribbled napkin sketch was then the decision of the Riksdag. It rendered in the environmental field in severe cuts that affected not least the tourism industry, where large investments in the management and infrastructure of our nature were cut off. Now it is a different situation, with four parties taking responsibility and presenting a constructive and offensive budget. But essentially, despite massive criticism, the right-wing conservative parties still have their down-priorities in this important area. Marlene Burwick has highlighted many of our important issues. I will therefore focus mainly on climates linked to industrial competitiveness and industrial change. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I have to return to the debate on Thursday, where I referred to the reindeer industry. I must highlight what is going on in Jämtland and is related to biodiversity. It was presented on the news in the morning. We have strongly growing predator strains that will coexist with the reindeer industry in Jämtland. Rapid protection decisions have been made that have rendered it possible for the predators to be controlled. Unfortunately, it has now posed threats to the county administrative board's staff in the form of personal threats to the nature guardians. This is absolutely not something that we Social Democrats tolerate, and it must be fought by all means. It's a matter for the police to investigate. Mr President, I would like to Resource use is global, but also in Sweden it is far above what is long-term ecological, economic and social sustainability. It continues to invest heavily in fossil and other environmentally harmful raw materials. These are products that should be recycled. If they cannot be recovered, they should be phased out. The use of materials needs to be more resource efficient, based on renewable resources and included in circular cycles. It's about the climate. It is about drought and drinking water supply. These are toxic substances in nature and plastic in the sea. The list can be made very long. This is a time of rapid change. We see that rapid structural and other changes in society are always at risk of hitting individuals hard, both on people and on regions. Disturbance and social contradictions that follow favor destructive forces. It's about taking advantage of the power and channeling it into a progressive change. Here lies our Social Democratic task. We are the force in Swedish politics that can make climate change possible without putting the little man at risk. We need to continue electrification of society. The phasing-out of fossil fuel management must continue. But it requires access to biofuels. It requires access to higher percentage of recycled plastic. It requires access to the so-called earth metals, sometimes called conflict metals, not least for the production of batteries but also for other electrical products. Today, the production of these metals is mainly concentrated in a few places on earth, often with poor working conditions. China has a great deal of dominance in this area. Sweden, but also the other countries of the European Union, have a transition to do, but we also have great opportunities. Sweden as a mining and industrial nation must meet this challenge. In order to ensure the transition to a long-term sustainable society, we must also be able to guarantee the mining of metals. We must push and support the big companies and the investments that are now being announced. We see how companies like Preem, Northvolt, SCA, Volvo, Scania and others stand and rammer and want to move forward with their important investments. To make it easier for them, we need to look at the whole. Nor can we continue to import emissions to the extent that we do. Here the political differences are apparently great in the practical work. I would like to highlight a number of both negative and positive examples that I think we need to look further at. Before the weekend Metso Minerals decided to close its production facility in Ersmark in Skellefteå for mining industrial materials, including mill lining. 160 employees lose their place of work. It is an establishment that has existed for more than 40 years and has delivered products to Swedish mining industry. Now they choose to close it down and probably move the business to India or South Africa. This is not just bad because jobs are being lost. This is also bad because a plant run by renewable electricity is being abandoned and moved to coal-fired plants. This will not mean that our mining companies need less of these products, but they will have to import things that are produced under worse conditions. This is a bad example. It can be mentioned that Metso is owned by the Finnish State and, among other things, Swedish pension funds. Here the owners also have a responsibility. A good example I think of is Boliden-owned Rönnskärsverken, which recycles the most electronic scrap in Europe. This is done because it is economically sustainable in the long term, but also absolutely necessary in terms of climate and the environment. This process also requires virgin material. Then we need to be able to break metals that can supply Rönnskärsverken with virgin material. Here there are locks in Swedish politics that we need to get away from. We need to be able to break the necessary minerals even in order to be able to recycle materials. Nevertheless, this is a good example. Another good example I think of is Northvolt's large establishment in Skellefteå, where Europe's largest battery factory will be built with over 2,500 employees. It's amazing. What is also amazing and one needs to highlight is that the environmental test has gone extremely well. The company is worthy of praise, but also the authorities that have been in and tested the business have worked constructively. When the Authority has needed additions, the companies have been able to deliver these additions quickly. Environmental permits have come about in a very good and fast way. That is why I think that the industrial life in this year's budget is so hugely important. It is needed, and we need to expand it into more industries. The chemical and cement industries need to make important efforts. We Social Democrats are willing to build on initiatives such as the Industrial Cluster. We want to invest in the companies that take the lead in the transition. We want to reward them. We do not want to end up in a situation where we are forced to import environmentally harmful products into our industry when similar products could have been produced in Sweden. We Social Democrats see this as an opportunity, but others seem to fall for short-term populism. We want to see the transformation as an opportunity for people, and we want to give people the opportunity to change. I would like to conclude by greeting my friends on the Environment and Agriculture Committee, to the staff of the Registry and to the President.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-793	Since this is not the world's salary, I take note of the fact that the speech was almost twice as long as the scheduled speaking time and also two minutes longer than the maximum time agreed by the President and the group leaders. Merry Christmas anyway!
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-794	Mr President, I would like to I wasn't going to ask for a line, but for some reason I can't hold it. We heard here the Socialist Member describe the opposition's budget with invectives. I think it says something about the vision of democracy. It is also about what the honourable Member himself mentioned in his speech, namely that companies such as Preem, with whom he himself exemplified, stand and stoop with their investments. I reacted to this because, if I remember correctly, it is the party of the Member Isak From who has taken over the permit process and simply caused this situation with the stamping of Preem. It is precisely this that the government, a politically appointed assembly, goes in and takes over a court process that has made it uncertain to Preem whether they can obtain their permission or not. It is important to know and understand that you cannot be in opposition to your own government party. As a government, you cannot conduct a policy on which you then have comments or comments in the Riksdag. It's gonna be very strange. They are responsible for the politics of their party. Otherwise, I think it is fair to say that there is a division within the party, quite simply. Against this background, I wonder why the government has taken over the permit process for Preem, if this is so remarkable from the point of view of the investment situation that Isak From talked about.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-799	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry about the time. Maybe I'm time-optimist. But I am also optimistic that we can actually make the transition that we so well need to make. After all, we have a legal society today, Louise Meijer, which finally puts the trials on the table of the government. Regardless of the colour of the government, it has been so ever since the Environmental Code was adopted: In the end, it is a matter for the government to test whether these activities are possible. We can see that it is much easier when companies do their preparatory work. But in some cases we have locks, and in some cases we also have to tolerate the need to make investments in order to make environmental fuels and to be able to recycle plastics, for example, better. Then we Social Democrats want to make it possible. We're not done. We need to do more. I believe that in the future we will come to what actually needs to be done to phase this out. We're ready to do it. We do not see the Moderates' environmental budget showing that direction. Nor do we see how cuts in aid could save the climate or, for that matter, point out the path our companies should take.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-803	Mr President, I would like to Isak From probably doesn't have to tell me about the Swedish legal society. It is not only I who have comments on this process; it can be said that the former head of the Land and Environment Court also finds this very remarkable. Enough about that! I note that my question has not been answered, but I have one more question. In his speech, Isak From mentioned a company that is closing its production in Sweden to move it abroad. This is exactly the policy that the Moderates are opposed to. But the kind of policy that the government is pursuing has this consequence: We are cutting back on Swedish exports and on Swedish production so that other countries will instead produce.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-807	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Louise Meijer! I think it's great that the Moderates have stated that this is the way it is. We saw during eight years of bourgeois government how companies after companies moved out. In recent years we have seen how the trend has reversed. Then there are some negative examples, and the negative examples need to be lifted up. We have to ask ourselves what makes it possible to leave an energy efficient business in Sweden to invest in coal power operations in India or South Africa. There we must have a policy that points to this and makes it costly. Why should we import businesses? It's bad politics. We Social Democrats would very much like to discuss how Sweden can become a better industrial nation where more companies choose to add their production.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-809	Mr President, I would like to Today it is legal to hunt with helicopters, it is legal to hunt with traps and it is legal to use dog hunting on predators who are in the process of raising their children. It is legal to use about a hundred different traps and a couple of nooses in Sweden, but the ability to check how the traps are used is minimal. This year it is with sadness that I have noted that the Rov animal campaign is continuing. It is a campaign that encourages killing and motivates it by the fact that it would actually be about game conservation. There is no plan for the animals to be shot where or for what purpose. A shot red fox gives 120 points, a cryout 15 points. The gray mouth is also vulnerable and has decreased by 70% over the last 30 years. The winner in 2016 scored 10 470 points. He shot 28 foxes, 7 badgers, 32 minks and 394 birds — impressive. With a master in nature conservation biology and a past as a conservation consultant, I still can't see the connection between all this killing and nature conservation. Mr President, I would like to The hunt has gone downhill in Sweden. The Jägerförbundet has described Sweden as the most hunting liberal country in the world. There is a need for a government agency for hunting supervision, where nature and hunting supervision are priority areas of work. But I'm not the only one who wants a special agency for hunting. The Swedish Democrats, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have exercised on similar requests. Furthermore, the movements of the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats are very similar. But when one goes in and reads their movements, one sees that the Center begins with: a well-organised and active hunting corps is the foundation for a well-functioning game management. 中 An active hunting corps means hunting. I disagree. The foundation is functioning ecosystems. The goal is functioning ecosystems– not to maximize the number of animals killed in a short time. The Center Party also does not want the EU to stand in the way of Sweden's licensing processes. Here, then, the Center Party wants to ignore the Convention on Biological Diversity and preferably also the EU's directive on species and habitats. They also say that a credible predatory policy requires active management. I wonder what the Center Party believes in. Perhaps they believe that the 2.5 percent in Sweden who are hunters are their core voters. And maybe they're right. Mr President, I would like to My core voters are those who have no voice. It is all the species and all the animals that exist that have the right to exist, but that we limit, subject to suffering, kill and exterminate. And it is for my core voters that I want to set up a special authority. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden there is a widespread illegal hunt where more than every tenth wolf is shot illegally, according to the National Veterinary Institute. There is a culture in some hunting organisations where this is widely accepted, as confirmed in an interview study by Erica von Essen at SLU. Christer Järlås, Environmental Prosecutor at the National Unit for Environmental and Working Environment cases in Östersund, says that the illegal hunt is out of control from the authorities. Mr President, I would like to In their motion, the Christian Democrats state that a new game conservation agency should be established to be responsible for these issues. In addition to the need for a new authority, we also need to cooperate with our neighbours, and above all with Norway. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to I think that the State's natural opp vision in Norway can be a model for such an authority, and I hope that we agree on that. There is therefore an authority there that is responsible for controlling hunting and fishing with about 300 people working operationally in the field. They have the possibility to check weapons licenses, hunting cards, fishing licenses and more. The tasks of such an authority may also include inventory and quality assurance of observations. It should be financed by taxes or contributions paid primarily by those who hunt. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency proposed last year that the following eight animal species be hunted with bows: beesam, beaver, badger, hare, raccoon dog, deer, fox and raccoon. We know that bow hunting involves a great risk and unnecessary suffering. How does this go with § 27 of the Hunting Act, which states that the hunt should be conducted so that the game is not subjected to unnecessary suffering? Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also proposes that hunting for squirrels and hermelin should be introduced and that the nut cry should be used as a drill animal when shooting. Mr President, I would like to What is the purpose of this? Well, it says explicitly that hunting should be promoted and that all animals should be seen as resources. If they're not hunted, they're an untapped resource. This is what our agency for nature conservation wants to minimise. Mr President, I would like to I am both sad and proud to belong to the only party that can stand in this House and disagree. The Green Party is founded on solidarity with all living things. Our statutes state that we share solidarity with animals, nature and ecosystems. They have the right to their own existence regardless of the benefit to us humans. Actually, this should not be radical at all. It is clear that Sweden has a responsibility to preserve all species within the national borders under the Convention on Biological Diversity, which we, together with a majority of the world's countries, have signed. However, with this basic approach, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency cannot ensure that the Convention for Biological Diversity is complied with and implemented. That is why we know, Mr President, that we need a special authority that works to ensure that the laws, protection and rights of animals are complied with.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-823	Mr President, I would like to I do not wish to extend the debate with a reply to a speech that is somewhat loosely linked to this debate on Category 20. But I still think it is worth taking a line when we have a member in the hall who picks up a closed group on social media with 146 members and let it somehow be the basis for all of Sweden's hunters and for the hunting permit in Sweden. I won't say it's a lie. The group exists, but I think that we as Members should be careful to be guided in our political analysis of what some mythoman in a closed Facebook group has written and put up. I think that is something we should try to avoid. With regard to the views that came up on the policy of the Center Party, I can briefly say that it is obvious to us that active management is a key part of the game administration in Sweden. Of course we have to have a hunt. There are times when there may be reasons to review the nature of the legislation relating to hunting. There are absolutely situations in which I and the Center Party think that we need to consider whether we cannot have a little more active management. The cormorant stock in Sweden is one such example. Everyone in this House knows that we have enormous problems with wild boar injuries. Perhaps there is no need for legislation. Rather, it is obstacles to the exploitation of game meat that need to be addressed in order to address the situation. I think it is quite natural to say as a political party that active management is needed in this country. Besides, I think it's right.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-826	Mr President, I would like to I thank Magnus Ek for the question, but I didn't quite get it. I do not know which Facebook group and which statement Magnus Ek refers to. It is probably quite clear that we have different basic values in our parties. The Center Party sees everything green as resources to be used to the maximum. But we in the Green Party see that there is an inherent value in everything that is alive. I'm also curious what the purpose of the hunt is. From the Center Party there is a lot of problematizing around the large boar strain and the large grazing damage that makes forestry difficult. There are also many injuries to traffic. In fact, one solution to all of this is to make ecosystems more balanced. If we had predators in Sweden that could be their ecological function, we wouldn't have had to have these big problems, and then we wouldn't have had so much costs for grazing damage and more.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-828	Mr President, I would like to I referred to this group because in your speech you, Rebecka Le Moine, referred to something that you called the Animal Campaign. Since I had not heard of it, I took the liberty of trying to find out what the honourable Member is referring to. So what I find is a closed Facebook group with 146 members. I can't see what's written in it because I'm not a member. But I still have to assume that's the one you referred to. I do not think that is something we should be guided by when we try to determine what legislation we should have on hunting and game conservation in Sweden. Wild boars are, above all, a problem for forestry and agriculture. If you want to see the effects of wild boars, you are warmly welcome to my home in Gryt where wild boars have turned upside down virtually every field that exists. I don't think anyone in here thinks it's reasonable for us to have predators all over the country that keep the growing boar tribe down. I think we can all see that it is an unreasonable situation to believe that the predator tribes would expand so much in southern Sweden that they can handle wild boars. We have to do that in other ways. This is a matter of concern for transport, agriculture and forestry.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-830	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the clarification. No, this is a campaign run by the Hunting Journal, and it's pretty famous. If you, Magnus Ek, are looking for the Rovjurscampaign, you will come directly to the Hunting Journal, which boasts that this campaign is now underway. It also shows how many points you get for the different animals. However, this campaign has received a lot of criticism. Therefore, it was shut down for one or two years. I note that Magnus Ek finds it unreasonable to have functioning ecosystems. Once again, I can only say that we are very different in our values. I find it unreasonable that man should try to take the role of all predators and predators and destroy their role. This is not how people work in other countries, such as India, where they also have dangerous predators like tigers that I have worked with a lot. It is only to be noted that we have completely different values as regards the right of animals to exist. ( THE PRESIDENT: I remind the debaters calmly that we usually talk through the President and not due each other. )
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-833	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I was perplexed if I were to take a line on Rebecka Le Moine because it was so incredibly strange in her speech that I do not know in which end I am going to start. Yes, we want our own hunting and game conservation agency just to get our activists off the hunt. We want people who know what hunting and game conservation is all about. That's why we want our own hunting and game conservation agency. As far as the Rov animal campaign is concerned, Rebecka Le Moine usually talks a lot about diversity. The predatory campaign is precisely designed to limit the number of predators who do not have natural enemies and thus gain greater diversity. Rebecka Le Moine also spoke of different values, and it is very clear that we have different values. Earlier this autumn, Rebecka Le Moine and a representative from the Left Party took part in the ovjursmarschen here in Stockholm. It was a demonstration of militant animal rights extremists. These include Hunt Saboteurs Sweden, Djurfront and Djurens Revolt. These are, then, organisations that threaten and hate and which therefore attack hunters. They cut down hunting towers so that hunters are at great risk of falling down and breaking their backs or even dying. There are no scruples about how to act. Is it the case that the Green Party and Rebecka Le Moine are behind this type of animal rights sex extremism because Rebecka Le Moine was in the predator march in Stockholm earlier this autumn? If Rebecka Le Moine is involved, she thereby also legitimises that form of extremism. Is Rebecka Le Moine and the Green Party behind it?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-838	Madam President, I would like What is an activist? Is there anyone who thinks something, that debates something, that stands for something, while a person who pursues hunting is not an activist? Who can participate in our agencies, and who can work in a county administrative board? It seems to be much more of an activist, as long as you do not have a weapon in hand, because it is then legitimate. As for the predator march I participated in, there were people I don't know. It's natural. I've been in a lot of demonstrations. I have been in climate marches in different scales, and I was myself involved in arranging climate marches before I became a politician. When you participate in a demonstration, a march or a manifestation, in a context with many people, it is impossible to demand that everyone should know who everyone else is. That's completely unreasonable. I didn't know everyone who was there. If there is someone who has been convicted or was a criminal in place, I cannot be blamed or take responsibility for that person, whom I do not know or have ever met before. This is a far-fetched way of trying to smear an issue that is really important for us to tackle, namely the widespread illegal hunt in Sweden. We in the Green Party are alone in this House to mention that there is a widespread illegal hunt – it justifies a licence hunt for protected and red-listed animals – which actually violates the EU's directive on species and habitats. These are important issues, and I hope that we can discuss them without throwing at each other words as a terrorist and so on.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-843	Madam President, I would like Illegal hunting has been discussed many times, but not when we debate Category 20 because it does not deal precisely with hunting. Then there was the question of government activists. Officials shall not operate their own agendas. They're supposed to be running democratic decisions. Unfortunately, we see on several fronts in Sweden that this does not happen. Among other things, there are some government activism around the area of hunting and game conservation. That's why we want our own authority where there are people who know the area and know what they're talking about. As for the predator march, Rebecka Le Moine could have made a simple googling. Then she had seen who was invited and who had participated in previous predator marches. I did not receive an answer whether Rebecka Le Moine is behind these extremists or whether she rejects them.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-846	Madam President, I would like I have raised the issue because we have also dealt with a call in a motion that I have raised specifically concerning a game agency. Then we have come to this debate, precisely because Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked for a reply and asked these questions. That's why we're here talking about the predator march. I have distanced myself from anything that is not democratic and peaceful. I shouldn't have to say that because I work in the service of democracy as a politician. Again, I say that it is not possible to take responsibility, or that you should not even have to take responsibility, for all the people who are in Sergel's square while you are there. It is unreasonable to demand that. When it comes to the game conservation agency, I still hope that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson can think that the model that exists in Norway is a good solution. They point out different responsibilities and give them to a specific authority.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-849	Madam President, I would like I was going to talk about morality. It is not so often that morality is discussed when talking about the various funds here and there. It is hard to understand that behind the money are actually moral balances. I was going to talk about precisely the differences between the government's budget and the Moderates' budget, because I think that is where the moral differences are most evident. The big difference is that the Moderates are making substantial cuts in environmental and climate work in the budget. But it does not stop there, Madam President, but what is happening is that we are trying to fix this by moving money from the aid part to the environmental and climate part. This is a cynical way of working. If you look at this in figures, the aid budget is reduced by SEK 7 billion. As in an event, this is exactly the same amount that is then chosen to reduce the cost of emissions. The moral essence means that you take money from poor people and use it to make it cheaper for Swedes to release. It wants to make it cheaper for city dwellers to drive in the city, at the expense of people on the other side of the world who are also affected by climate change. I take it again: You take money from poor people who are affected by climate change and put it into making it cheaper to release carbon dioxide in Sweden. At the same time, we are doing a number-fixing by moving money into the environmental budget and making drastic and draconian cuts there. That's the point of departure. I think this is basically a morally reprehensible budget. It's about morality, and it's morally wrong. I wanted to move on to another issue that has been debated a lot today and in climate policy in general. This concerns the question of efficiency. The Moderates and other parties in this House have highlighted as one of the most important principles that climate policy must be effective. The interesting thing is that the Moderates are making a double blow. It succeeds in achieving something absolutely incredible by introducing a new type of initiative which is the least effective initiative that can be found throughout the House, namely investment in climate compensation with the help of CDM credits. In addition, as you know, there is also a significant reduction in the tax on discharge, which is the most effective measure to reduce emissions. I can't believe it! It says that efficiency is important for climate policy. Then you do two things that are the most inefficient one can do in a budget. It's almost incredible that you get away with that rhetoric. Now I can only rejoice that Dagens Nyheter has had a long review of how inefficient climate compensation is. Among other things, the review notes that as little as 2% of the climate measures in the Moderates budget actually lead to reduced emissions. The emphasis on climate compensation is extremely poor. In addition to this, there is an emission brake within the EU ETS, and this is also truly ineffective given that there is an automatic cancellation of allowances under the EU ETS. This means that the Moderates are burning for the crows. In conclusion, I can say about efficiency that Moderates' solution is to scoop the water out of the boat rather than actually fix the hole in the boat. It is a summary of Moderate climate policy. There are major differences in policy. I often think that the common people think that all parties want well for the environment. But that's not the case. The Moderates have decided to surgically reduce their efforts on the environment. This contrasts sharply with the government, which increases funding year after year and invests more in the environment and climate.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-860	Madam President, I would like I agree that there are moral differences, and I will develop what the main moral difference is. Madam President, I would like In the midst of a burning climate crisis, the Green Party is making the decommissioning of fossil-free electricity its parade issue. There does not seem to be anything more important than that Sweden should phase out nuclear power, when we know that nuclear power is what supplies 40% of Sweden with fossil-free electricity. There is no country that has decommissioned nuclear power and, at the same time, reduced its emissions. It's an equation that just doesn't make sense. My question to Lorentz Tovatt is therefore: how is it that the Green Party is pursuing a policy that shuts down nuclear power in Sweden when a policy is needed that does exactly the opposite?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-863	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question from Louise Meijer. One thing should be made clear from the outset: I am not the one who is phasing out nuclear power. It's not my party. It is not Lorentz Tovatt or anyone else in my party who decides to phase out nuclear power. On the contrary, we have signed an agreement that says that nuclear power should not be phased out with political decisions. What is now phasing out nuclear power is the market. Nuclear power is simply becoming less and less profitable every day. Just look at the cost of new renewable electricity and compare it with the cost of new nuclear power. Even if one compares with existing nuclear power, one thing can be said: nuclear power is becoming more expensive every day. Wind and sun become cheaper every day. This should please a moderate. The Moderates probably have some idea of starting from market thinking when designing instruments and when looking at their favorite society ahead of them. It should be some kind of market logic that governs investments and the like. But that logic has been turned away from now. Now they want power socialism. It wants to support nuclear energy in various ways, even though it is an unprofitable energy source. It is very important that we continue to have fossil-free and, of course, renewable electricity production in Sweden. I can only say that we are on our way there. It is now invested almost as much in wind as it was invested in nuclear power over the years it was done most. The reactors that are now being shut down are being replaced by new wind production. SEK 80 billion has been invested since the energy agreement that all parties – or not all but most of the parties in here – signed. It's a success. It is a success based on investments in renewable electricity generation, and it replaces nuclear power by far.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-868	Madam President, I would like The Green Party and Lorentz Tovatt are welcome to tell me about the government's e-bike subsidies and the government's climate anxiety therapy. But the Green Party does not have to tell me as moderate about the market economy. It is not a free market when your competitors receive subsidies. It is not a free market when your product is taxed. It is simply not fair competition then. So do not argue that the decision to close Swedish nuclear power has been made on market grounds! Rather, it has been done because of a lack of market. I have to ask the question again: why is the Green Party helping to phase out fossil-free electricity when we know that the need for electricity will increase sharply, as much as 60%, by 2045?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-871	Madam President, I would like With all due respect, I must ask Louise Meijer to look at energy policy again and see what is actually happening on the market. What we are doing now is phasing out subsidies for renewables because it can stand on its own feet. Investments made today in wind and sun are made on a market-based basis. Investment in nuclear energy is scarcely made today because there is simply no market economy in these investments. What we did with the energy agreement, moreover, was that we were actually kind to nuclear power in that we removed the criminal taxation that Louise Meijer is talking about. That is to say, despite the incredible support measures that were paved the way for in the Energy Agreement, nuclear power cannot stand on its own feet. That is what is now happening in the market – in country after country it is not possible to build new nuclear power because it is simply too expensive.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-874	Madam President, I would like Lindholmen in Gothenburg used to be a leading shipyard in the world. Nowadays it is a centre for vehicle development and training. This morning thousands of people went to work on Lindholmen to help develop new cars, trucks and buses. Volvo Cars, Sigma, Zenuity, AB Volvo, Geely and Semcon are some examples of companies that exist and operate on Lindholmen. These companies have a lot in common with other companies in Sweden, companies in other industries and elsewhere. Often most of what they produce is exported, but companies can also be important to their locality and not infrequently even be the largest private employer. As politicians, of course, we do not develop cars. But I think we have a responsibility to think about how we give business the right conditions in the tough global competition that is now in place. That is why, among other things, Madam President, the Moderates propose in their draft budget an historic effort to electrification. We are talking in selected parts of this about about 1 000 million, in total much more than what the government and support parties are proposing. Our package consists of a couple of important parts. The first is about developing electric roads. The other year the Swedish Transport Administration was commissioned to build two electric roads. We'd like to see that bet doubled. The second is about expanding the investment in technology-neutral charging infrastructure. There is a need for a network of possibilities to charge or refuel cars, and not just electric vehicles. We would like to see some hydrogen and fuel cells. The focus should simply be on technology for CO2-free charging of vehicles that cannot be refuelled as an ordinary petrol or diesel vehicle. This initiative is six times as large as the government proposes. The third part for us is an increased investment in electrification of the transport sector. There is today an electric hybrid lab in Gothenburg. For us, it is about taking it on board and spending more money on projects that can be used both within it and for other purposes to increase the electrification of the transport sector. The fourth part is a climate allowance for the base industry. We believe that the base industry that invests in technologies that significantly reduce or even eliminate emissions should be able to get a tax reduction on the corporation tax paid. This initiative favours companies throughout the country and helps to lay a foundation for jobs tomorrow and the time thereafter. This is not only a matter of economic policy, but also of absolute importance if Sweden is to meet its long-term climate goals. Today we have the EU's cleanest electricity system based on nuclear power, hydropower and new renewable energy. But we also have large emissions in transport and industry. It's in the light of what you're supposed to see the electrification efforts we want to do. In energy policy, we should choose security and low climate emissions rather than phasing out nuclear energy, as some other parties want and wish. A few months ago, parts of the Committee on Economic Affairs visited China. One of the companies we visited was Volvo's owner Geely in Shanghai. On site and place we got to see their research facility. They also have an office designed by a Swedish architect. The research facility was really impressive. They can do as advanced things in Shanghai as at home in Gothenburg. It is in a way self-evident, but it is also thought-provoking in that part that it is about seeing what competition Sweden faces. We can't take things for granted. It is not self-evident that companies continue to invest in Sweden. Therefore, industrial policy must ensure that we have reasonable conditions for businesses and transport and good opportunities for experts to come here. It could be a matter of not having too high taxes. This could involve developing school policies so that young people can learn things in such a way that they stand up to competition with children and young people from Finland or Singapore. It may be that Sweden must develop and take a position when it comes to AI. We can actually continue the list. Madam President, I would like I think the experience from China also tells us another thing. I am a free trade friend, but I do not think that anyone should be allowed to invest at any time and in any way in Sweden. Nevertheless, that is a lesson we can learn in the case of a country like China. There are other examples. The possibilities are great. But they come with other parts. It was right for the government to leave a bill that, following a parliamentary decision, expands the opportunities for Säpo in telecommunications investments. But I don't think that's enough. We need to have a broader discussion about national security interests and how to protect important Swedish interests. Madam President, I would like Not far from the centre on Lindholmen there is a trader who has a grocery store in one of Gothenburg's suburbs. I have highlighted him and his fate earlier here in Parliament. That's what I want to do today. His shop is heavily exposed to crime. It's bad for him. But it is also a pattern that affects large parts of Swedish trade. It puts its finger on the problems that exist. Instead of focusing on his customers, he has become the closest expert in law enforcement. He is also experiencing resignation; he thinks it is about too low penalties, a society's flatness, a police shortage and politicians who do not accept their responsibilities. Much works well in Sweden. Other things are beneath all criticism. The security of the country's entrepreneurs is one of those areas where the government's passivity has large and negative effects. I understand that it is expected that a representative of the political opposition will say that the government is doing too little and too late. But I think what is happening at the moment for many entrepreneurs is brutally clear. We can see what passivity and inability mean. The efforts of the Moderates in police, customs and other judicial systems far exceed those of the government. For us, it is nutrition policy. The insecurity of the country not only affects ordinary people but, unfortunately, is at the heart of many of the country's entrepreneurs. There is also a need for a change.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-895	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered! We fully agree that electrification of both industry, cars and transport systems is an important part. You tell us that security and long-term sustainability of energy supply are important. I fully agree that it takes long-term rules of play for us to cope with major technological shifts. When the energy agreement was concluded, you and the Moderates said that it was a great victory for nuclear power that the tax was phased out, that the decommissioning date was removed and that nuclear power would remain and develop on a market-based basis. Now the Moderates have chosen to make the deal. What has happened since you declared it a victory for nuclear power?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-897	Madam President, I would like It was right there and then to make that deal. There were several reasonable and real reforms. For example, the tax changes to be made to hydroelectric power and nuclear power were quite reasonable. The change in the Nuclear Waste Fund was quite reasonable. All in all, it gave nuclear power a completely different economy. In practice, it went from red to black figures. We were also able to ensure that the conditions were in place to make the necessary reinvestments. There are other things that did not really fall out in the way I would like. For example, we still had and have an energy target of three sentences. But the authorities, the media and the general public have come to talk about just the first sentence: 100% renewable by 2040. It does not really take into account the second issue of nuclear power and its role in a future electrical energy system. The interpretation has become different from the one we discussed there and then. That is why I think it is reasonable to make a move. Nor has the government stagnated when we have had dialogue over and over. It has been a core of the proposals that we, together with the Christian Democrats, have highlighted in combination with the fact that the existing agreement has been fully implemented in practice. That's why we thought it was time to take a new negotiation, a 2.0. But then it became clear – I am very sorry – that the government did not want to invite all parties and that there were no plans to have a discussion about changing the energy target or a major discussion about, for example, the future of nuclear power. However, if the government were to change foot, I can promise that I will immediately come to talks to find a new direction for Swedish energy policy.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-902	Madam President, I would like The government was willing, within the framework of the parties included in the Energy Agreement, to talk, debate and discuss everything, about energy goals, about research and everything. All they said no to was to introduce state subsidies for nuclear power. Isn't it really the truth that you changed your mind, Lars Helmered? From the fact that you wanted nuclear power to remain on a market-based basis, you have now changed your mind and want nuclear power to receive state subsidies. Isn't that right?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-904	Madam President, I would like There are no proposals from us for state subsidies for nuclear power. However, other things have changed in part since 2016. They talked about electric vehicles and such things then too, but I would say that since then there has been an accentuated discussion on electrification. For example, the climate discussion is hotter. If something has changed, it is rather the seriousness of the whole climate issue. That is what makes us perhaps even harder than before to stress the importance of combining nuclear power and new technologies, such as wind power and other things. There are great comparative advantages in the Swedish electrical energy system, and we are prepared to do quite a lot to continue running nuclear power in combination with hydro power and renewable energy. We see that Sweden, apart from Norway, has the best conditions. And it's important if we're going to have these electric vehicles. On the other hand, we are not talking about state subsidies, which was at the heart of the argument.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-907	Madam President, I would like I intend to begin my speech with a review of some news articles on a series of destructive events for the Swedish business community from just the past week. The newspaper Norrland Social Democratic wrote about a break-in at a forestry property in Luleå. SVT reported both a burglary, which TTELA also highlighted, and a couple of other incidents, including burglary at a fire station and in a school in Bodafors. The boat club in Trollhättan was broken into. In the Hunting Journal, you can read about hunting clothes and fish rolls stolen during burglary at Jaktia in Västervik. Södermanlands Nyheter described how a tyre company in Nyköping had been subjected to burglary. In the same county, Eskilstuna-Kuriren reported that Malmby Motor in Strängnäs had been broken into again. It became the seventh in the order of the company concerned in that year alone. We can stay in Strängnäs, where Eskilstuna-Kuriren reported burglaries even at the retirement home Riagården. I repeat that there was a break-in into a retirement home, Madam President. The press speaker for the Police Region in the East has stated that the victims were between 85 and 90 years old. Jnytt describes another burglary where tools have been stolen again. It is the third break-in at construction sites in Jönköping for only one week. Back in Skaraborg there was a burglary at a restaurant in Hjo where the cash register was stolen, which Västgöta-Bladet has mediated. Madam President, I would like I choose to stay there. I could have continued, but I think the point has already been reached. If it has not, I can explain that my point is that the Swedish business community is affected most by the crime wave that is sweeping our country. I also repeat that all these cases are from the last week and were found on the front page when I googled a break-in last night. Having said that, burglary is only a form of crime that affects the Swedish business community. In addition, we all have fraud, shoplifting, violent crimes and more. In addition, the widespread insecurity in certain specific areas goes all over local civil society. We have probably all taken note of how the ongoing crime in some areas has resulted in traders choosing to move or close down their business. Those who bravely remain are forced to invest a great deal of resources in security measures in order to carry out their activities. Madam President, I would like Swedish industry is not only faced with high and in some cases ineffective and symbol-oriented taxes. The Swedish business community is not only faced with a thorny and sometimes unjustified regulatory burden. The Swedish business community is not only struggling with a jungle of difficult-oriented bureaucracy. The Swedish business community is also affected, just as the Swedish population in general, with the increasingly present and widespread crime. To put this in figures, one can study the study carried out by HUI Research, the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute, last year. The study concluded that the crime that directly affects Swedish companies amounts to a cost of SEK 55 billion annually. This is more than the total expenditure on the judiciary in the state budget for 2020. If these resources had not been deprived of the Swedish business community, it would most likely have seen a significantly greater willingness to invest among the majority of companies. More had been hired, and the Swedish economy had been strengthened. For SEK 55 billion you get quite a lot, but this is now deprived of the Swedish industry annually in direct costs. Please note, as I said, that these are only direct costs. In addition, there are more indirect costs for combating possible crime, such as cameras, alarms and security guards. Food companies recently reported that 42% of their member companies indicated that they were taking safety-enhancing measures for staff and facilities or that this could be the case shortly. Horror has shown how companies have been forced to hire security officers in order for their staff to be able to get safely to the subway after work. In other words, it is not only the industrial policy measures that make a difference for Swedish companies. To a far too large extent, Swedish industry is also in need of criminal policy measures such as a ban on access, increased camera surveillance, more police officers, more severe penalties and faster legal proceedings. Madam President, I would like It should be the state that takes responsibility for law enforcement and the establishment of security in society. This responsibility should never be transferred to the Swedish business community or the individual trader. With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, we had established the correct order, and the individual entrepreneurs had avoided spending time, energy and capital on covering for direct costs caused by crime or indirect costs of preventive law enforcement. If this is combined with the more direct industrial policy proposals advocated by the Swedish Democrats, we would really ensure a more competitive and better equipped business sector, which would not least be much needed given the current economic turn. Our targeted efforts at SMEs, tourism promotion, competition research, strengthening work against economic crime, business development and start-up-own contributions for professionals would have positive effects. Together with our proposals to reduce the regulatory burden and reduce red tape, we could really create the conditions that our business community deserves and thereby strengthen Swedish competitiveness and the Swedish economy.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-924	Madam President, I would like Last week there were elections in Britain. Possibly it could be a Brexit soon. Even if they were to leave the European Union, the last word is not about what relations England should have with the continent in general in terms of trade, mobility and a lot of other issues. It has been a rather messy period for a few years after the vote in Britain. Here in Sweden, the Swedish Democrats are a party that advocates what they call a svexit, i.e. that Sweden should leave the EU. That is, of course, a perfectly legitimate opinion, although I do not share it. I believe that most people in this House can easily find both shortcomings and pure madness in European cooperation, but one can still see a great deal of the benefits beyond this. Swedish young people can go and work in another country, and you can have mobility when it comes to education, for example. Not least, there are benefits for the Swedish business community. Not only do the Moderates say this, but there are many others. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, Oxford Economics and the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce have pointed this out, as have several others. Access to a single market has meant an incredible amount for the Swedish economy, GDP growth, job opportunities and the like. If we look at what these experts and, for example, the National Board of Trade points to in the British example, it is getting worse. It would be worse for Swedish companies with Brexit, and it would be directly bad for Swedish companies if the same were to happen in Sweden, so that we get an uncertain relationship and a worse relationship in all situations with the most important market for the Swedish business community. I wonder: Why do the Swedish democrats take this view, and what is your answer when people are concerned about what it can mean for Swedish companies?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-929	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Lars Helmered! I would like to start by saying that I am delighted with the outcome of the British elections, and I also support the referendum that has been held on its relationship with the European Union. It will be very interesting to follow how the UK now acts, not least if it succeeds in making a withdrawal, and what it means for the UK and the EU, which are deeply dependent on their trade relations with the UK. Having said that, I would like to draw the attention of Mrs Hjälmered to the fact that I was personally part of the working group that produced the election manifesto that the Swedish Democrats went to elections in the European elections and was highly involved in the formulations on how to relate to the European Union on the whole. In fact, I am convinced that Lars Hjälmered is informed that we did not push for any form of svexit in the European Parliament elections. On the contrary, we were clear that there is a great need to wait and see what happens to Brexit– will it happen, and what effects will it have? Will it be a successful example, or will it be a horror example? These are things to which we still do not have an answer today. But what we have answers to is the political position that the Swedish Democrats have taken on this issue. This is not in line with the reality that Mr Helmered is presenting. If Helmered, against the assumption, missed the news articles, interviews, debates and so on that took place in the electoral movement, where we stressed our position, he should at least remember the two or three times that I and Mr Helmered – we are not due here – have debated this in this House. Although he has missed the news articles, our debates in this area should nevertheless be in the memory of the honourable Member.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-933	Madam President, I would like The reason why I am raising this is that I think that the attitude towards European cooperation is a deeply problematic part of the Swedish Democrats. It is possible that Tobias Andersson says that the Swedish Democrats here and now are not running this or waiting to run it or something else. Again: I can easily find some drawbacks of the whole but also be clear that the benefits greatly outweigh the benefits of free movement. There are experts who show what would happen if we were to embark on the adventure of leaving Europe. For example, Oxford Economics shows that both households and companies in Sweden would lose out. Labour supply would fall. This would affect Swedish productivity. We know from evaluations that access to the internal market has had an incredible impact on economic development. We can be sure of one thing: If Sweden leaves the EU, it will be worse for Swedish citizens. It gets worse for Swedish companies. That is why I am so clearly opposed to the attitude of the Swedish Democrats on this issue – whether you pause or want to drive further ahead.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-936	Madam President, I would like I am a little unsure who Lars Hjälmered is debating on this issue. I have now tried to inform Mr Helmered of our position on this matter. Then he maintains his stand. If I were to do the same, I could reason in terms of thinking that it is deeply problematic that the Moderates have clearly opposed nuclear power. Somewhere I could nuance that picture and say that it is very problematic. Then Mr Helmered will inform me even though I am already informed that the Moderates have not been very much against nuclear power, at least not recently. However, it will be a rather dishonest rhetoric if one claims, despite being informed and being informed earlier and so on, that the counter-debater is of a different opinion than it is. I avoid using that kind of rhetoric. But I noticed that Helmered did.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-939	Madam President, I would like Since the Left Party's proposal for appropriations in the area of expenditure is above the level decided by Parliament, I choose to abstain from taking a position. Instead, we explain in a separate opinion the policy that could have been implemented if the Left Party's proposal had received the support of the Parliament. I would like to start by pointing out that a society at large benefits from economic and social equality, especially our businesses. Equal countries have better economic growth. Today we are struggling with a budget that increases economic inequality in the country. It is an inequality that leads to poverty, to impaired health and to many of us missing somewhere to live or live crowded, with all that it means. It is an inequality that reduces opportunities to live in rural areas and an inequality that creates segregation in big cities. This is not a good environment for companies to develop in. The basis for the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises is increasingly disappearing in rural areas and will continue to disappear as municipalities are hard hit by the non-existent effort. This means reductions in school and care for the elderly – yes, in general welfare is severely affected. At the same time as rural areas are impoverished, we do not have an existing housing policy. It makes it extremely difficult for people to move to where the jobs are. You can put it in the context of companies screaming for skills. The lack of housing policies and the reduction in the economy of schools are huge obstacles in this regard. The Left Party wants to see an increase of 47 million in the allocation for industrial development by 2020 compared with the Government's proposal. Of this increase in funding, 30 million should be spent on targeted support for women's entrepreneurship. The background is very simple. When the Swedish Agency for Growth analyses this and presents statistics on women's entrepreneurship in Sweden, we see a big difference both in general and in different industries. In some sectors, only 5% of entrepreneurs are women. The average is 30%. It has stood still since 1997. So we're talking patriarchal structures. In Sweden, several researchers and authorities have touched on women's and men's access to state-owned business promotion systems, especially in terms of advice, but also in terms of funding. Several of them have highlighted indications that the treatment of women and men differs in some respects. For example, men receive the same response time but more concrete response than women to a request for advice, according to a report from Growth Analysis. We need to change this. Here government after government has failed. Furthermore, we want an increase in support of cooperative enterprises. In order to further strengthen cooperative enterprises, I would have liked to see EUR 40 million under the envelope used to create cooperative development. Finally, a real change in the climate requires a major shift in business. Today we see many companies working on their transition, but we also see those who have not realised this or who are not willing to take the necessary steps to achieve the goals. This is not something that can be delimited. If it is not done, it will affect everyone – the whole business community and the whole of humanity. While we all know what we have to deal with, we are not willing to make the tough decisions to stop the warming. Why, for example, should we continue to invest in the fossil industry when we know that the time aspect means that we cannot continue to do so? It has to be replaced. Therefore, investments in the fossil industry are non-investments. In this respect, the government needs to be part of the solution by not providing guarantees or investing in industries that counteract climate change, either through our pension funds or through the various export units. We would have had to create a green state investment bank with at least 100 billion in capital in order to have resources so that our industry can cope with the transition. All decisions at state, regional and municipal level must be related to and decided on the basis of the climate. Sweden cannot only relate to the borders of the nation when it comes to these issues. Our companies cannot be held liable when they operate abroad. Therefore, the climate should be overridden. It should not just be a policy, but it should be concrete actions and concrete consequences when this does not happen. This also goes hand in hand with respect for human rights, workers' rights and indigenous rights.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-950	Madam President, I would like In the Left Party Party program, you can read this:.The rights that run out of ownership must be limited and ownership itself transferred to common forms. ..................................................... Then, Madam President, I would like to ask the honourable Member: how do you intend to implement this, and are there any particular companies you intend to be nationalised?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-952	Madam President, I would like I think Lars Helmered asked about property rights last year as well. It is a formula that may need to be discussed, because it is not that we are against companies. However, we see that there is a need to ensure that some activities are not controlled by the market, if you say so. We have seen the impact it has when the market takes over. Just look at housing policy! Today we urgently need a proper housing policy, in which we actually invest in order to combat homelessness. Look at the healthcare companies, for example! How much money have we lost by purchasing from different companies and so on? If you look at the schools, you see a big difference in quality, for example. I think there are places where we actually need to rethink whether the market should control them. But that doesn't mean we're against companies.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-955	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for Lorena Delgado Varas. We do not share the view on this issue, but I think we can have a frivolous discussion about capitalism and ownership and such things. We have a slightly different view of entrepreneurship in welfare, for example. But there is also a serious part in this. In the past, for example, the Left Party has pointed out that parts of the banking sector might be nationalised and other things. That is why I have chosen to highlight the recurring. It is a principled view of what you think is a social mission and of state ownership and government intervention in the business sector. Could these, for example, be sectors other than those highlighted by the honourable Member? This applies, for example, to life sciences, the banking sector or other things that the Left Party sees before it.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-959	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the banks, it can be a good incentive to have some form of government work. We see that there are an increased number of money laundering cases that we need to investigate and look further at. I mentioned women's entrepreneurship as an example. We see huge differences in how banks act towards different genders and different types of entrepreneurship. Some form of government bank would be beneficial.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-961	Madam President, I would like As the Christian Democrats' budgetary options should be seen as a whole, I choose to refrain from taking a position. Instead, we are presenting a specific opinion on the Christian Democrats' policy on the industrial expenditure area. The Christian Democrats, through their proposal for a state budget, want to create the conditions for a society with good economic growth and a strong business environment in the increasingly fierce global competition. A well-functioning economic policy gives us the resources to invest in welfare, such as good care and a good school. The Christian Democrats' proposal for a state budget therefore contains large resources for health care, care, social services and justice to promote well-being and security for all. These are structurally correct reforms to equip Sweden for worse times. The timely provision of care and the full range of legal resources to investigate and resolve more crimes are very important factors for the business environment. Sweden needs a business environment that lays the foundation for more jobs. New jobs are not created by politicians in parliament or by the government, but are created mainly when people find it worthwhile to start and develop a business, realize an idea and risk their savings capital. It is important that laws, taxes and rules are designed to make it easier for people to start and run businesses. Equally important is that equal conditions should apply to different forms of enterprise, regardless of the size of the enterprise, and to entrepreneurship throughout the country. Small and medium-sized enterprises in Sweden, which are often family businesses, should be at the heart of enterprise policy. This means that I would have liked to have seen an increase in the SEK 15 million grant to the Swedish Agency for Growth to facilitate ownership changes and generational changes through our proposal to open ownership change offices around the country that can provide advice and support in ownership change processes. The regulatory framework should be favourable and give both small and large international companies the opportunity to develop so that Sweden can compete for skills, services and products. Madam President, I would like Some elements that we Christian Democrats believe are necessary for Sweden's business environment are:
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-971	中 public service and engagement. Regulatory simplification as digitalisation streamlines needs to be taken into account to a greater extent than is currently being done. It is about streamlining administration, which is about choosing the way of working and at the same time opting out. We cannot continue to have dual systems, which will not be effective but only the opposite. There is a need for more momentum in national digitisation efforts. We come to the question of easier reporting. Here we Christian Democrats want to introduce a guarantee that companies will only have to submit one task once to the authorities and that the task will then be passed on to the relevant authority. Furthermore, we want models that protect companies against ever-growing burdens to be used. It is six out of ten entrepreneurs who experience rules as barriers to growth. Here we want to introduce the principle of a rule in, a rule out, which is applied in Germany, among other things. This means that when new rules are introduced, regulatory facilitation must be implemented to at least the same extent. The overall outcome of the Board's review of impact assessments in 2018 shows shortcomings in the analysis of the impact on the company's costs and competitive conditions for companies. In this respect, the Council has noted that these aspects are of great importance for companies' ability to work and grow. The Christian Democrats believe that the role and position of the Rule Council should be strengthened by making the Council a mandatory consultative body for the Government Office's proposals so that new laws and regulations as well as changes in existing ones are as effective as possible. Another important element in terms of rules is combating the over-implementing of EU directives. There is also an announcement here that implementation should not put our companies' competitiveness at a disadvantage. The starting point should be the minimum level of the Directive. In Denmark, a special Implementation Council was established in 2015 to counter over-implementing Danish legislation. The form of the Council is certainly changing, but the basic idea is good. Sweden should, on the basis of our conditions, establish something similar. We propose here that this issue be investigated. Madam President, I would like The service provided by public authorities to enterprises can be crucial to the development of enterprises. Predictability is an important factor. The Christian Democrats here want to introduce service guarantees for companies in order to contribute to faster, more high-quality and more predictable government services. One example of simplification measures for companies is the abolition of human resources. For many entrepreneurs, the human resources system is a regulatory problem and a constant concern that small mistakes will result in large fines. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the system of human resources can be removed in most sectors. But we know that opinions about the system vary greatly depending on the industry. There may therefore be reasons for some sector, such as construction, to maintain the system. The important thing here is to combat unfair competition and undeclared work, and new ways of working should be constantly developed to stop these problems. The human resources have played their part. Let's go to the infrastructure. Here we see that the need for infrastructure investments is great, not least in terms of housing, railways and roads, but also in terms of stable conditions for electricity supply and the need for energy efficiency improvements. Maintaining industrial competitiveness requires further investment in infrastructure and a better understanding of regional growth logic. Good conditions for stable electricity supply are also needed, not least for industry's opportunities. We are concerned that Sweden is losing planned production and that the conditions for local production are deteriorating through the tax policy that is conducted both this year and next year. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Christian Democrats believe that it is small and medium-sized enterprises that should be given priority in business policy. That is where the most jobs are created. The tax system shall be such that profits can be generated at the same time as saving in the company itself is encouraged. It should also be designed to promote access to venture capital for new and growing companies. Inheritance, gift and capital tax rules shall be designed to facilitate generational shifts in enterprises. We do not budget most of the funds in this area of expenditure, but as a whole we mainly budget for our common well-being and for our security by prioritising welfare, the judiciary and the police. It is also something that all entrepreneurs consider fundamental, but which unfortunately is no longer part of our everyday lives. We are presenting a budget that makes it possible to trust Sweden.
i-N9XzTNHjwqx7jKW9UYcmTj	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Camilla Brodin! You say you don't budget the most, and that's right in this area. One of the things you have chosen to save more than SEK 1 billion is the Climate Q & A – and at the same time you talk about the importance of us electrifying and giving the industry the opportunity to meet the climate challenges we have. One of the major projects that have been financed through Klimatklivet is Hybrid, which is a collaboration between SSAB, LKAB, ABB and Vattenfall to produce steel without coal. Making such a big technological shift requires a long-term perspective, or, as Camilla Brodin herself says, predictability. In what way do you think a 1 billion dollar reduction in climate change contributes to the goals you spoke about in your speech, Camilla Brodin?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-988	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, honourable Member. As you know, we have not budgeted as much as most others in this House have in this area. When it comes to climate change, we have read what the Swedish National Audit Office has come up with about tackling climate challenges in real terms. You can't see that the climate life has produced the result you want to see. Hybrid is absolutely a project that will be able to provide access to Sweden's work for steel without coal, and that is not something we oppose. On the other hand, there are a number of different elements in the climate category that should actually have been done in a completely different way, and we do not believe that climate change is the solution to the climate problem.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-990	Madam President, I would like Nor is it clear from the Christian Democrats' budget motion what they intend to have instead, but it is only a real and very large reduction in the climate class. As I said, climate change has been crucial for this. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the honourable Member about the attitude of the Christian Democrats towards nuclear power. We heard from the Moderates that it was not government subsidies that were the aim of breaking the agreement, and I guess the Christian Democrats were also behind what was included in the original energy agreement. How do you see government subsidies for nuclear energy, Camilla Brodin?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-992	Madam President, I would like With regard to the energy agreement, both Helene Hellmark Knutsson and I know that it was right and correct when we made it together in 2016. The problem here is that there are parties and authorities that do not respond when it comes to telling what is actually in it. The government parties also seem to think that the January parties' agreement is much more worthwhile. There, both waste incineration and combined heat and power are subject to penalties, and the energy agreement is actually being violated. Nevertheless, I will answer the honourable Member's question. We have not talked about any state subsidies, but the energy target needs to be reviewed. We do not think that the government parties take responsibility for meeting this in a good and proper way. However, I am prepared to sit down any day if we are actually met with regard to our demands.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-994	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs more and growing companies throughout the country. It is a cornerstone of Swedish growth, job creation and competitiveness. We Social Democrats understand that more jobs and increased productivity strengthen the Swedish model. Sweden's welfare is created by strong and growing companies, and we want to see more entrepreneurs who dare to step out and start a business. We want established companies to be able to grow, export and hire more. That's how we build a stronger society. Madam President, I would like Nutrition policy is about so much more than reducing taxes on labour. Policy must create the right conditions for business. It is about Sweden's entrepreneurs being able to have confidence in our security system. Our social safety nets are to be generous, and together we are to finance a world-class education system so that companies get the necessary skills and workers can switch to new professions when jobs change. It should be high quality regulation and application, reasonable processing times, good service and good treatment from our authorities. A good business environment requires public investment. This is something that right-wing conservative politicians often do not understand – that when we invest in infrastructure, education, research, housing and health care, we also create a foundation for a good business environment throughout Sweden. That is how we create a stronger society, built on both large export companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. Madam President, I would like I am pleased to say that Sweden's bnp grew during the third quarter of 2019. It is mainly exports that explain this upturn. Today, almost 1.4 million people in Sweden have a job to go to thanks to exports. That's a third of all jobs. Exports are increasing in all Swedish regions; only here in Stockholm County, exports have increased by 14 per cent between 2017 and 2018, and that is really good. Sweden ranks high in many central global indices and comparisons of competitiveness and innovation. Today we are a leading tech nation with many successful companies, such as Spotify, Skype and Klarna. Of the world's 260 unicorn companies, i.e. privately owned companies valued at more than $1 billion, seven come from Sweden. It is no coincidence that Sweden is second best in the world at innovation. Through the free education system and a well-being that gives many the chance to develop their talents, Sweden has created a world-class innovation climate. In addition, 2019 will go down in history as a record year for venture capital on the Swedish start-up stage – so far this year SEK 22 billion has been invested in Swedish start-up companies. It is clearly more than the 14 billion and 11 billion respectively invested in 2018 and 2017. The countries in the EU with the most tech companies that have reached billions of dollars are the UK, Germany and France, but Sweden does not land too far behind – in a fourth place. Given our population, it's amazingly good. The Moderates now want to cut down on nutrition policy and believe that reduced taxes will solve all the challenges. It's not gonna work. Sweden should compete with knowledge and quality, not with social dumping or low wages. In order for Sweden to be able to stand strong in international competition, an active business policy is required for more and growing companies. Therefore, the Government provides Almi with a permanent contribution that enables them to offer funding and advice to more companies. In order for Sweden to be able to stand strong in international competition, a well-developed cooperation between different social actors is required. The Government has therefore launched four partly new collaborative programmes that bring together industry, academia and public actors to find together the new, innovative solutions needed to meet our societal challenges. Madam President, I would like Much is going in the right direction in industrial policy, but some changes are moving far too slowly. In 40 years, women's entrepreneurship has only increased from 25 to 33 per cent. That's not good enough. Too little has been done to strengthen women's entrepreneurship in Sweden. Last year, women's start-ups backed up, and it is now about the same level as almost a decade ago. Sweden is also low in international comparisons, even though we should be one of the world's most equal countries. This means that Sweden is missing a huge potential in terms of both new ideas and new companies. There are many myths about women's entrepreneurship, such as that women's companies would have lower growth and profitability than men's or that women entrepreneurs take less risks in their entrepreneurship than men. None of this is true. During the autumn, I have invited entrepreneurship women to the Riksdag to discuss what we can do for more women to start and run businesses. This work will now continue in order to develop a new and feminist industrial policy. We will do so in close cooperation with the entrepreneurship women. Madam President, I would like A modern industrial policy is necessary to create a socially and ecologically sustainable society. By 2045 Sweden shall have zero net greenhouse gas emissions in order to achieve negative emissions in the spring thereafter. Industry currently accounts for one third of total emissions in Sweden. To support Swedish industry in the transition, the government has created Industrikliv, which provides support for the necessary technological leaps within industry to reduce process-related emissions. Hybrid – steel without coal – is a project that has received funding through Industrikliv. This climate initiative has been appreciated in the industry and has given Sweden great attention internationally. We are now proposing a further strengthening of the Industrikliv compared to 2019. This means a doubling of the grant compared to 2018 and is done through an increase from SEK 300 million in 2018 to SEK 600 million in 2020. The Moderates, as we have heard, have wanted to replace the Industrial Group with climate reductions, and the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats intend to cut back on the investment. It is worrying for industry, which clearly says that it needs a long-term perspective in order to make this kind of technological leap. There is a strong public interest in Swedish industry being able to reset and sharpen its long-term competitiveness, both to secure Swedish jobs and to reduce emissions. During the autumn, the right-wing conservative bloc has instead chosen to engage in political games that create concern within the Swedish business community. On the contrary, I am convinced that if a small country is to be able to meet major challenges, we need to work together and keep the agreements we meet in the government and parliament. With this, I call for the proposal to be approved.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1013	Madam President, I would like I would like to raise a question about restrictions on investment. With free trade and openness, there are of course incredible opportunities for Swedish companies. The fact that products and services have been sold to customers in other parts of the world is really what has built our entire prosperity. Those benefits really do exist. But there are also a lot of problems that I think are serious. This applies to several countries, but we can take China as an example. It is a repressive state that does not respect fundamental human rights, for example. What is sometimes called soft power, or soft power, we can see examples of in Sweden right now, directly from the Chinese Embassy against Swedish media. It also takes other forms. I believe, Madam President, that it was reasonable and proper for the government to submit a bill on telecommunications investments and to extend the opportunities offered by Mr Säpo. I also think it was reasonable for the government to produce a letter on the strategy for China and to take a concerted approach. But we also have, I think, several other parts of this. We have the discussion on Nord Stream down in Blekinge, where the government had an opinion but where the government's party colleagues simply – excuse the expression – took a bit of a shit in this and signed an agreement with the actor in question. We have the discussion about an investment from abroad in a port on the west coast, which was not stopped on a political path, but because the landowner did not want to let go of land. So it was never tested, but there were never really any stop mechanisms in this. We have the sale of an energy company's electricity network a few years ago, which raised the question of whether the state can stop this if one sees threats to Swedish legal certainty. We could see that there are no such possibilities. I think more needs to happen. My question to the honourable Member is: how is the view of the Social Democrats on this? Can we count on further initiatives in this area without being purely protectionist?
i-QNCHk5WSYt7TJ1ndVQisjh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! This is the big question of our time. How can we develop free trade while at the same time seeing the major challenges we face with countries that are not fully developed democracies and that use their power in several different ways? How can we guarantee things like national security even in a very open social system, not least when it comes to trade? Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that this openness has benefited Sweden and Swedish companies very much. We have gone from being one of Europe's poorest countries to being one of the richest, and it would never have been possible if we had not stood up for transparency and free trade. We will, but this needs to be developed. We also have far-reaching municipal self-government, and we have very independent authorities. Much of this has been very good, as I said. However, there is reason to have a discussion about the regulatory framework we need to have in place, both within the framework of the free trade system and within Sweden. We have had a very self-regulatory system, where we have relied heavily on each other and on each other's judgment. We should be careful about this trust, but a lot today probably requires a clearer regulatory framework. My view and that of the Social Democrats is that we will have to develop our regulations without going against free trade in this way.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1025	Madam President, I would like I change tracks and ask a question about Arlanda and Arlanda's future, which is of course an important question for the Swedish business community. It is about direct routes into Sweden, or maybe you should fly from other parts of the country to Bromma or Arlanda. The Arlanda Council, of which I believe Minister Eneroth himself is chairman, has produced a report on the future of Arlanda. However, it is still written in the stars what the S-MP government wants with Arlanda forward. Given that this is absolutely crucial for the Swedish business community, I would like to ask: What is the view of the Social Democrats and the Green Party on the future of Arlanda and Arlanda? And when will the report of the plans be released?
i-KxTn2fK8VpsopAGtbMdsd4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for this question! As a Stockholm politician, I obviously share the picture that Arlanda is a crucial airport. It is not only crucial for this region and for the northern parts of Sweden, it is actually Sweden's largest airport and the link out into the world. That's how we want it to stay. At the same time, we have a huge climate challenge, where aviation must take responsibility for its own emissions. I would like to see a developed airport policy, and I would like to see a developed aviation policy. However, this objective must also include reducing emissions and achieving climate targets.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1031	Madam President, I would like When I and my colleagues initiated the work on our exercise in this area of expenditure, we chose to take note of the relevant authorities' budget base for the years 2020– 2022. In this work, we paid particular attention to the fact that two authorities had described needs that they had found in their activities, which the government, for its part, had chosen not to meet with funds. The Competition Authority described that they increasingly suspect corruption in connection with their supervisory activities and therefore called for 15 million in order to combat this corruption more effectively. At the same time, the Swedish Companies Registration Office described how they needed SEK 8 million to strengthen their work against financial crime. On the part of the Swedish Democrats, we saw no reason to doubt these two authorities, and then we provided these funds of 23 million. In this context, 23 million may be seen as a rather insignificant sum given the whole area of expenditure. Madam President, I would like My question to Helene Hellmark Knutsson is: Does the honourable Member Hellmark Knutsson think that the Competition Authority and the Swedish Companies Authority have landed wrong in their needs analysis and therefore do not need the resources needed to succeed in their supervision and in their work against financial crime? If this is not the case, there will be a supplementary question on the table: if Mr Knutsson does not believe that the authorities have landed incorrectly, why has the Social Democrats not provided the funds requested? As I said, it is 23 million on the whole.
i-CSx3Aj1mkU2N42mfNznpxX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for the question. I am among those who really share the concerns expressed by the honourable Member in his speech about the criminality that is unfortunately very linked to Swedish working life and that has gained a foothold in a way that is deeply worrying and creates enormous suffering for many people who are victims of working life crime. I'm glad the authorities want to do more about this. What has worried me and the government is precisely collaboration between the authorities to tackle this crime and crime. This has now been addressed by the Minister for the Interior, together with the relevant ministers who have authorities in charge of supervision in the workplace, in the labour market and in relation to businesses. The answer to the honourable Member's question is that it is cooperation between authorities that is the first step in tackling the criminality that unfortunately exists in business and working life today.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1040	Madam President, I would like Of course, I appreciate that we share the concern about the crime that is spreading in society. However, if the Social Democrats have not passed the requested funds of 23 million to the Swedish Companies Registration Office and the Swedish Competition Authority, it is difficult for them to elude the issue and say that now we will have a little more cooperation with the authorities to resolve this. My question was whether it has come to the conclusion that these two authorities have landed in error in their needs analysis and, in fact, do not need the 15 million and 8 million respectively, and that therefore they have not been passed on. If you do not think they have landed wrong, you should have been able to cough up this money and give these authorities the opportunity to better combat corruption and economic crime. The alternative is to believe that they are right in their conclusion but that the funds have not been found. The question then is whether these funds might have been needed instead for the tax cuts for high-income earners like the two of us, for example.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1042	Madam President, I would like The answer to the question is that we need to work with all the resources we have to combat this crime and crime and that the resources that already exist should be used in the absolute best and most efficient way. One way to become more effective is to cooperate with each other and leave their drainpipes. That's an answer to the question. Then we have had to invest a great deal in the police and the law enforcement authorities. Training as many police officers as we do now is also an important part of fighting crime. For us Social Democrats, our priorities are now to invest in welfare and combat crime.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1045	Madam President, I would like In the January agreement, the Center Party managed to get a ownership inquiry into the forest. For me and many others, it was incredibly important. The investigation is now under way and is expected to be completed by the end of the coming summer. I'd guess it might be the end of next year. It always drags on, but it will still be in the near future. Then why is it so important? In recent years both the ownership and the right to use forests have been eroded. We have 330 000 forest owners in the country. When I first wrote about the ownership issue on Facebook, I was overwhelmed by response. I sat at home on a stump in the woods and had very poor coverage, and there was just a response from all over the country. Since I am not a forest owner myself, it was really there and then that I understood how hugely important this issue is. As you know, people who have managed their forests have sometimes done so for generations. Then there is also a sentimental value. Others have invested in forests. They have borrowed money and made their life investment. But it has also happened that the authorities have pointed out the forest as a safety host and have not paid any compensation. Of course it's a huge problem. This has resulted in a number of legal judgments, including one on the mountain forest, where Kammarkollegiet and Skogsstyrelsen claimed that there was no ongoing land use when some forest owners wanted to fell. There would therefore be no ongoing forestry. It is now up at the Mark and Environment Court. I find it tragic that Sweden, with such strong ownership rights in the Constitution – it also exists in EU law and in the UN Declaration of Human Rights – should have to set up an investigation into strengthening property rights. Then why am I saying this is so important? Because the forest is one of Sweden's most important basic industries. It is about a fifth of Sweden's GDP. The value is approximately SEK 900 billion. And not only that, but 10 percent of the country's goods exports come from the forest. Tens of thousands are also employed in forestry, the pulp and paper industry and other industries that are directly dependent on forest raw materials. Every fifth invested krona in Swedish industry comes from the forest industry. So there is no doubt whatsoever, my friends, that the forest has an enormous impact on the prosperity of the population. Without the forest, we'd be poorer. To this shall be added the climate benefit of active forestry. Although it is sad that a forest country like Sweden will need to have an investigation to review and protect our property rights, it is positive that the Center Party has received several measures that strengthen ownership in the January agreement. It is important for forest owners, for jobs in rural areas but also for the forest industry and Swedish exports. Madam President, I would like Several have dealt with this with rules and that they are burdensome for companies. I read parts of a report published last year by the Swedish Agency for Growth. It was about the increasing costs for companies, including administration and rules. Did you know that in recent years administrative costs have increased by an average of 1 billion per year for Swedish companies? This has been taken seriously by our Minister for Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. He has travelled around Sweden on a business trip and discussed these issues. When I and several of me were in here at a session organised by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise a few weeks ago, the Minister for Economic Affairs was there. He promised that he would present a three-step rocket for the solution to these regulatory problems. Some of it should be presented before Christmas. It's going to be very exciting. There is a week left, and I look forward with confidence and excitement to what will be presented. Several have been into this with one rule in, one rule out. This is something the Center Party is behind, but not just us. Today, I saw on the Industry Board's website that they have these thoughts in Brussels as well. Ursula von der Leyen announces that the Commission will now apply precisely the one-rule-in-one-rule-out principle. In her communication to the Commission, she stated that for each new legislative proposal imposing new burdens, the corresponding burden for citizens and businesses should be removed at EU level in the same policy area. And if the European Commission can do that, then we should also be able to do it in Sweden – right? Madam President, I would like There is another point that I would like to highlight here, and that is the importance of infrastructure for business. Often when we talk about infrastructure and trains we talk about passenger traffic and very rarely about the importance of goods, because it is well that goods do not complain. After all, Gods does not vote and will not be offended if it is left at some train station, which perhaps someone else would be if the train was delayed. But it is not good enough that we just lower the speed of a lot of the industrial tracks we have around Sweden. We are only talking about high-speed trains nowadays, but rarely about the industrial tracks. We need to focus a little more on them, because they have a huge impact on Swedish competitiveness. I can't help but touch how important Arlanda is, not just for Stockholm but for the whole country. I find it strange that the Arlanda report is not presented, which Lars Hjälmered was also working on. It has been in the drawer for about a year, and I would guess that the reason is that the Social Democrats are positive but not the Green Party. That's why it's dusting somewhere, which is boring. Air traffic, like all other modes of transport, must make a change and become greener. I think most people here agree on that. There is, in principle, agreement among the parties on this, although the substantive political path may vary slightly. At the same time, technological development is constantly taking new steps forward. The green transition will be made regardless of whether Arlanda will expand or not. Swedes will of course continue to fly in the future, and that flying will increase also seems obvious. Flight capacity to and from Arlanda is therefore primarily about how well connected Sweden and its capital should be to the outside world, what opportunities Swedish companies and entrepreneurs should have and how attractive our country should be for future investors, foreign key skills and tourists to the country's rural county. Ultimately, it is important if Sweden is to be an integral part of our environment and have good opportunities for direct connections with strategically important cities or if the ambition is instead to be a peripheral place that requires some detours to travel to and from. It is ultimately about what function the capital's overall flight capacity should be used for. It is clear to me that the most strategic thing is to ensure that the entire country's business community is able to be attractive and competitive and have fast connections to other continents. It requires the capacity to manage both business and tourist trips between a regional airport and Arlanda as well as a wider range of routes directly from Arlanda to our surroundings. Without sufficient capacity, we risk becoming an appendage that primarily conveys passengers to major airports such as Oslo, Copenhagen, Helsinki or any other air hub in our immediate vicinity – yes, a place that can mobilize the capacity that does not exist in Sweden. This, my friends, may well be worth thinking about over Christmas.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1064	Madam President, I would like In the budgetary context, the Center Party is a support party for the government and has negotiated certain tax changes and green tax exchanges in this respect. A number of these proposals have attracted a great deal of criticism from experts and various sectors. One example is the change in taxes on cogeneration from local electricity production, which was intended to give some tax revenue. But local electricity production closed down, there was an electric crisis in Skåne and the tax revenue in the amount it was supposed to be. Another example is the tax on plastic carrier bags, which should generate large revenues but which have received a lot of criticism that it may not give the money it is intended to give. The criticism is also about not making a division between fossil plastic and fossil-free plastic. A third example is the chemical tax. It was introduced a few years ago, and an evaluation showed that it would not have provided the expected revenue but, on the contrary, would have meant a reduction for the public purse if you took revenue versus lost VAT and job taxes. Overall, there is a criticism that some of these environmental taxes have been ineffective and impair the competitiveness of Swedish companies compared to competitors in other countries. How does Helena Lindahl view the criticism that experts and industries generally have against the government's, Liberals' and Center Party's proposals for green tax exchange?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1070	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Helmered for the question. I think Lars Helmered knows that when you cooperate on a team, you don't always get to choose what to eat for dinner. Sometimes you have to chew up the others' blood pudding, whether you want to or not. That was true even in the time of the Alliance. With regard to the proposal on the tax on plastic bags from the turn of the year, I have had a lot of questions about it, not least at home in the village. I think you'll see it symbolically. We need to think about it. We need to reschedule. We still buy lots of items that are packaged in plastic, which we put in these bags. You can't see it as black and white, but you see it as a symbol and a step in the right direction to get people to think right. I've also been thinking about the chemical tax. All of this must be evaluated. Sometimes you face things that are more or less good, and then you have to evaluate them. If things didn't go well, you should back down and maybe do something else instead. I do not really need to stand and defend the chemical tax, because I know there is a lot of criticism. You'll probably have to make an evaluation and then come back with what you can do better.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1074	Madam President, I would like I am a summer resident in Bohuslän, and in central Bohuslän the ocean currents bring in a lot of plastic from other parts of the world that litters thoroughly. Every summer I usually voluntarily pick up a lot that comes in that way. I take this example because it demonstrates the need for international answers to this. Madam President, I would like I do not doubt the ambition of the Center Party and Helena Lindahl with these tax proposals, but I question the effectiveness of one-sided taxation such as the chemistry tax that is deteriorating for Swedish companies. You can also raise questions about the effectiveness of the plastic tax, where you do not look at the fossil-free possibilities. It is a bit serious, and we must constantly see how this affects Swedish business in the open and global world we live in.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1077	Madam President, I would like It is no secret that we have a little different entrance in terms of green tax exchange. As far as the Moderates' proposal to reduce the tax on petrol by 1 krona is concerned, I have had a lot of barking at home because we have not agreed to it. It's not surprising because we have very long distances. However, I think it is mostly a proposal and a help to city dwellers, who already have public transport. I cannot for my life understand why we should be involved in subsidising car-riding in cities when you already have everything served. There's no such luxury where I live. Instead, one should look at a rural travel allowance that benefits those who actually need it, not city dwellers who can take the subway to work.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1080	Madam President, I would like I'm an old entrepreneur myself. It feels strange that this soon 20 years after I took the step of becoming self-employed, I still have to raise the importance of entrepreneurship and what entrepreneurship means for Swedish welfare. Let me start with my little elevator line. If the whole of Sweden is to grow, more jobs are needed. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenues that in turn finance our common welfare. Sweden therefore needs a business-friendly policy, and this is not achieved by increasing taxes on jobs or entrepreneurship. Instead, regulatory simplification and a business-friendly environment are needed. Madam President, I would like In the slightly longer version, I would like to start by saying that the Liberals believe that targeted measures are needed, but also general efforts are needed to enable more companies to grow and employ throughout Sweden. A generally improved business environment with reduced taxes and less red tape benefits all businesses, especially those in sparsely populated areas. According to a smoking recent report from Entrepreneurs, small businesses account for 99.4 per cent of Swedish business – 99.4 per cent! It is in small businesses that growth takes place. This is where jobs are created and the big companies and stock market giants of the future are emerging. The report also shows that the local business environment is important. Creating a good business environment requires a good dialogue between the municipality and the business community. But it all starts with that it must be as obvious to be self-employed as to be employed. Today it is not as obvious to start your own business as to take up employment. It is a lot about the individual's experience of entrepreneurship from loved ones, but also about the knowledge the individual has gained about entrepreneurship through school. Entrepreneurship must therefore run as a red thread throughout the education system. I do not know if the President usually plays table games. I do it sometimes, and on a Friday night you might play a party monopoly. It often gets thin between the game rounds, and once you start playing it becomes easy so that it comes to new rules, catch rules that nobody knew about since before but that come into the game and make the game much harder and more complicated and maybe to a not even fair game. A bad party monopoly on Friday night is about as it looks daily for our entrepreneurs. We need to make the right rules for the country's entrepreneurs. In order to prevent an increase in regulatory burdens and administrative costs, the Liberals believe that the principle of a rule in should be examined, a rule of law that affects entrepreneurship. The principle means that for each new burdensome administrative burden introduced, a corresponding burden must be removed and is intended to ensure that the overall regulatory burden on the person concerned by a new rule is not increased in any case. That's what I call a good game. But it doesn't end with the rules. Today, companies are forced to turn to many different national authorities in their entrepreneurship. Reporting is done to SCB, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Companies Registration Office. Information about the company's management must be provided to the Swedish Companies Registration Office and the Swedish Tax Agency. Supervision is carried out by the county administrative boards and by various specialist authorities. Conversation with each of these is an unreasonable regulatory burden. Instead, a one-door-in function should be created for the country's companies. A review should also be carried out of the regulatory letters for the managing authorities in order to clarify their responsibilities to protect the business environment in Sweden. It's only reasonable. Madam President, I would like The difficulty of finding funding is one of the main obstacles to expansion and new employment. More than half of Sweden's small businesses find it quite or very difficult to obtain external funding for day-to-day operations and investments. A functioning financing system for small and medium-sized enterprises facing expansion creates both jobs, growth and increased revenue for our common well-being. Private capital is crucial for setting up, running and developing businesses. However, state venture capital must be available throughout the country so that all companies in the country are given equal opportunities. Funding is also a gender equality issue. Capital is often found in sectors where there are relatively few women who run businesses. There is a need for new thinking, both in terms of private capital and in terms of state capital – not least when we see that barely one in five business leaders is a woman. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me highlight what is perhaps the most important thing in order to achieve an equal society between entrepreneurs and employees and a society in which we take care of each other. The welfare system cannot be based on dividing citizens into an A- and a B-team, where employees are offered better protection than those who choose to create a welfare-creating company. The systems of sickness benefit, unemployment insurance, parental benefit and health care must be more closely assimilated between entrepreneurs and employees. For those who run a business it is difficult and expensive to be sick. The risk of reduced turnover, a heavy regulatory burden and a lack of financial compensation penalises those who have taken the step of becoming entrepreneurs. Often, the entrepreneur suffers double when he is forced to pay both sick pay for the sick staff and to catch up with the work that has to be done, perhaps when he is ill. If we want more people to feel like a safe, given and developing step from having a job to starting a business, the rules must be adapted to the conditions of our welfare creators. Madam President, I would like If the whole of Sweden is to grow, more jobs are needed. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenues that in turn can finance our common welfare. In doing so, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Industry for their work this year, as well as the office staff and the Bureau. I wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1100	Madam President, I would like At this Christmas season, there is a great deal of trade, especially e-commerce. For themselves, there are sometimes price comparison sites such as Price Hunting and the equivalent. I don't think I'm the only one here. You can sit at home on the couch with a phone or an iPad and see what a game, a box lego or something costs in a bit different places. It's very tough competition. I think this is particularly clear with everyone involved in consumer electronics of all kinds. What I'm going after in this is the chemical tax. The first tax was introduced a few years ago and has since been evaluated. Then we have looked at how much the tax has given in increased revenues, and then we have deducted what the state and society have lost from lost VAT revenue, corporate taxes in general and the job taxes that come from employers' contributions and income taxes and found that it is a clear minus. Now it is proposed to increase this tax. For an electricity dealer in Årjäng or Torsby it is of course tougher when you raise the chemical tax. Buying a refrigerator or a game console in Värmland is becoming more expensive, and there are other suppliers a touch of a button away who can arrange this with fast delivery, even before Christmas, from Denmark or Germany. This kind of one-sided taxation can actually threaten jobs in these places – Årjäng, Torsby and other places in Värmland. Then I wonder, Madam President, why are you doing this, Mr Teimouri?
i-9AxAaEXo3ZpEtHQKYLnUGS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! The issue of chemicals tax is quite difficult. First of all, I think it is good that dangerous chemicals are removed from the market, for example in clothes and children's toys. Then one might also look at how a chemical tax could be levied from other countries and not just in Sweden. What we have to look at in terms of the overall business climate is what we have done in general to reduce the tax burden on entrepreneurship. With the January agreement, we have improved communications and digital infrastructure and made changes in corporate taxation and more. So I think we should look at the overall tax burden on companies.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1108	Madam President, I would like There are several important issues emerging from the chemicals policy – individual chemicals that are dangerous and mixtures of them, European legislation that you can work with, what Swedish authorities do and so on. However, I believe that this points to the modern trade that exists and in which we can quite easily take decisions in this House that affect Swedish companies. Then there are customers, once again, who can order cat food from Germany at the touch of a button and super fast, perhaps in some or a few days, get it sent home. This means that we must always bear various instruments and proposals. I think, Madam President, that all this with the chemical tax and its increase puts its finger on this. It can affect entire urban environments that Swedish trading companies have less opportunities, as we can see in closed stores in malls and so on. I do not think that is desirable.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1110	Madam President, I would like In the globalised world we are seeing, we also know that trade with our neighbours and with the rest of Europe is much easier. As far as the chemical tax is concerned, I think that the very main objective is to remove the dangerous chemicals in toys and clothing. I think Mr Helmered also agrees with that in principle. Then I think you should look at what we have done in general for entrepreneurs, with improved communications, changes in corporate taxation etc. that makes it much better for entrepreneurs today in Sweden. I think that is a good thing.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1112	Madam President, I would like As an environmental partyist, I see man as a creative being who is willing and able to take responsibility. The diversity of views and ideas is what drives development forward. The freedom to seek knowledge and happiness and to realize one's own potential is something that all people must have. Madam President, I would like Ninety-six per cent of Sweden's companies are small businesses. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the basis of our Swedish business community. The Green Party and the government, as well as many other parties, want it to be easier for people to start and run businesses. It is about security and regulatory simplification. Since we formed a government, we have made it cheaper for small businesses to hire their first employee. We have also introduced high cost protection for the sick pay costs of small businesses. Within the framework of the January cooperation, we are taking this several steps further. For example, we are working on a major simplification of taxation and regulations for micro-enterprises, i.e. the smallest companies. Madam President, I would like Equal business is an extremely important issue. I think that almost everyone agrees that there is a need for many improvements. Women's willingness to become entrepreneurs has increased over time. But we see very boring statistics in this area. Fewer employees in business are women. And when women want to be business leaders, there's still a proper glass roof. We must therefore work very actively on this. Almi has the task of developing and financing small and medium-sized enterprises. The government will review Almis's mission targets. Here we have the opportunity to clarify the mission on women's entrepreneurship. In this context, we will also look at the need for market-supplementary financing for companies run by women or owned by women. Madam President, I would like Equally important is diversity in business. Almi has a special mission to also reach entrepreneurs with a foreign background with its efforts. In 2017, nearly half of the customers in business development were persons with foreign background. So it's a good grade. Last year, the Government also commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to promote foreign-born women's entrepreneurship. It's a very important mission. Madam President, I would like This is where it happens. It is now that we see the consequences of climate change with forest fires both abroad and in Sweden, with floods and with increasing flows of refugees. But it is also happening now in the climate work itself. We see several leaps being made. For example, Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions decreased by 2 per cent in 2017 – 2018. So it was in the middle of a boom. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has now finally fully supported Sweden's climate law and ambitious climate targets. SSAB's development work with non-carbon steel, i.e. climate-neutral steel production, has been highlighted in the UN context. And Ikea has been highlighted by the WTO for good work on the circular economy. And people choose not to fly, not because of air cams, but because of knowledge. We live in a special country. People turn their eyes on Sweden when it comes to climate change. This is something that not least I experienced myself when I attended a recent EU conference in Helsinki. Then people came up and asked and talked. As regards high-speed trains, for example, which have been mentioned today, they said: Has Sweden not already? Business is very central to climate change. New green jobs are being created here. Early climate action in business is very important for competitiveness. The government is investing in the industrial life and climate change. There is also a great deal of investment in innovation. These are efforts that the Moderates and Christian Democrats are cutting back on. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention trade policy. Last Friday, the government presented a major initiative – an investment in the future. From 2022 onwards, there will be an end to export credits for the extraction and exploration of fossil fuels. This is really needed if we are to reach the Paris Agreement. These are not small crumbs, but we are talking about a substantial reduction in CO2 emissions. I support the proposal in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's report.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1126	Madam President, I would like The environmental party member and colleague of us Lorentz Tovatt has previously welcomed the announcement by one of the major airlines that flights from Stockholm and Arlanda should be closed. He has also wanted one of Sweden's largest companies, Hedin Bil, to go bankrupt. We have free enterprise, and we have property rights. I really understand that both Hedin Car and Norwegian airline contribute to greenhouse gas emissions. However, Norwegian may also be more enabling in the long term, for example, in the case of new aircraft and new fuels. And Hedin Car with its almost 3,000 employees and stations everywhere can help get all the new electric cars out and so on. Madam President, I would like I therefore wonder why the Green Party is delighted with lost routes and wishes large Swedish employers to go bankrupt.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1128	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Helmered for the question. I would like to say that we are pleased to want to invest in rail and high-speed rather than mourning lost routes. When an industry is transformed, you lose jobs, but there will also be many new jobs in new industries and industries. It is rarely these examples that are mentioned. As far as Mr Lorentz's statement on this company is concerned, I would like to recall that he then softened his sharp statement. But it is a question of investing in the future. Then it is the reduction of climate emissions combined with entrepreneurship that must go hand in hand. Then we want to invest in trains, high-speed trains, and new technologies. Here we have the industry to facilitate this transition. We also have the Climate Tree. Now there is also the green exchange of taxes.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1132	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to ask Amanda Palmstierna the same question I put to Helene Hellmark Knutsson, namely about the Arlanda Council and the report on Arlanda and the future. It is such an issue that affects most of Sweden. These are external lines – direct lines – which are important for business. Entrepreneurs and employees from different parts of the country should be able to travel to Stockholm for example for a customer – or sales meeting not only by train but occasionally also by air. There, work has been done for a long time when the government and the state have been discussing what they want with Arlanda and Arlanda's future. It is reported that this report has been ready for a very long time. My simple question is: What do the Green Party and the Social Democrats think about this, and when do they intend to release the confidentiality of this Arlanda report?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1133	Madam President, I would like There are several routes where train travel is actually faster. I am thinking of the metropolitan regions of Stockholm – Gothenburg and Stockholm – Malmö and so on. I find it very difficult to see the need to fly. Newspapers have also been surveyed about more working time and so on by using trains instead. That is why we need to make investments and investments. Looking at the competitiveness of industry as a whole, we see that we are making various forms of investment in trains but also in innovation work and so on. As for when this report will be released, it is an issue that is on the table with the government. That is why, as a Member of Parliament, I cannot comment on this here.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1136	Madam President, I would like Member Amanda Palmstierna touched on the new export strategy and was quite pleased with what we could read on Friday. This is a strategy that the government should have presented in September. It's been running out of time. It is now happy to declare that it has put an end to export guarantees for fossil fuel companies by 2022. I am thinking of all the companies that are working hard today to actually get to this. Amanda Palmstierna himself mentioned the Hybrid project and steel without coal. In 2022 SSAB will probably not be there yet, although we would of course wish that. My question is: Can SSAB and other similar activities at all see a future in Sweden?
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1139	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Camilla Brodin. As regards the climate change situation in the business sector, it can generally be seen that long-term rules of the game are needed. This is why we developed the Climate Act. It is a law that many other countries follow and where Sweden is a good example. Now we've set 2022 so there'll be room to reset. There is little time to work on this. Then, of course, the government has had a dialogue with the companies. It's not like you're sitting in a glass cup and suddenly you're letting something out. Of course there is a dialogue with companies. There have been several other reforms over the years where there have been concerns. Once the reforms have landed, they have contributed to a huge innovation power to steer. Many times, industry is ahead of policy in terms of climate action and ambition.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1143	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member mentions here that companies often take precedence, and that is great. They do so in many different parts, not just in the climate transition. My question is still whether companies that carry out a particular type of activity can see a future even after 2022 or whether they have to look for another place in Europe or the world.
i-d6e614fdc6251e3e-1145	Madam President, I would like I would say that the answer is yes to the question. I do not believe that using fossil fuels is an end in itself for companies. They want to produce their products and services, and then there are different techniques, means and forms to do this. There is absolutely a future for businesses.
