i-0c1c474de11bc945-3	Mr President, I would like to Gudrun Brunegård has asked me what measures I intend to take to clarify at which Swedish schools the teaching material in question has been used and whether I see the need to take stock of more examples of inappropriate teaching materials being used. She has also asked me what measures I will take to ensure that pupils with native language education are not subjected to religious and anti-democratic propaganda and whether I see the need for some authority to examine that teaching materials used in teaching are in line with the school law and the basic values of the curriculum. Let me begin by emphasising that I take very seriously the information in the media about teaching materials with anti-Semitic, racist and secular messages in mother tongue teaching. The shedding of child soldiers, wars and intolerance is unacceptable. The school law and curricula clearly state that education must convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society is founded. Everyone who works in school should assert the basic values set out in the school law and curriculum and clearly distance themselves from what is contrary to them. All teaching in Swedish schools must be non-confessional. This also applies in previous schools with a confessional focus. In order to ensure and improve control over these types of schools, the Council has set up an investigation into the confessional elements of the school system that are reviewing the regulatory framework. The investigation will also provide legislative proposals necessary for the introduction of a stoppage for new independent schools with a professional focus. The headmaster is responsible for the educational work at a school. Decisions on the teaching materials to be used in teaching are made locally by the individual teacher or principal. Today, therefore, a great responsibility rests on teachers and principals to choose adapted teaching materials that serve their purpose and are not in conflict with school teams and curricula. The State's school inspection is responsible for the supervision of schools and for compliance with the School Act. In cases where shortcomings are noted, the School Inspectorate has the opportunity to act so that all pupils can be guaranteed the right to good education in accordance with fundamental democratic values. In the case of mother tongue education, during the previous term, the government appointed an inquiry into mother tongue and study guidance in mother tongue. The study presented its report in May this year and made recommendations, among other things, to strengthen and develop the supply of teachers on the subject of mother tongues with increased access to education for mother tongue teachers and strengthened research links. The report is being referred to 10 March 2020. All pupils shall be given access to high-quality teaching materials. The Government has therefore decided on 28 November this year to instruct a special investigator to propose, among other things, what the role of the state should be as regards teaching material in Swedish schools. The assignment also includes proposing ways to facilitate the selection of suitable and accessible high-quality teaching materials. Work is therefore under way to ensure access to high-quality teaching materials, which can make it easier for teachers and principals to choose teaching materials. Work is also under way to regulate secular elements at school as well as measures relating to mother tongue education. This will help to strengthen equality in schools and prevent students from being exposed to inappropriate teaching materials.
i-0c1c474de11bc945-11	Mr President, I would like to Violent Islamism is one of the greatest threats to our Swedish democracy today. There is much talk of how we need to take strong action to counter parallel societies, where young people are at risk of radicalisation. It is therefore shocking that municipal Swedish schools have been able to use imported teaching materials with such indoctrinal content in mother tongue teaching. It was in mid-November that the media revealed that the unit head of the native language unit in Östhammar Municipality, Zacharia Fjellander, discovered that textbooks in Persian contained Islamic propaganda that glorifies child soldiers, where young people are urged to enter the fight against the Jews and where the only democracy in the Middle East, Israel, is called Satan. This is completely contrary to the values of the Swedish school. The School Act says that education should convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society is founded. The curriculum says that the inviolability of widowhood, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality between women and men and solidarity between people are the values that the school is to portray and convey. In line with the ethics of Christian tradition and Western humanism, this is done through the individual's education of justice, generosity, tolerance and responsibility. School education shall be non-confessional. ..................................................... A few days after this revelation, on 21 November, I submitted the interpellation that we are now debating. I note with satisfaction that the following week, on 28 November, the government commissioned a special investigator to do so to propose what the role of the state should be as regards teaching materials and how to facilitate the selection of appropriate and accessible high-quality teaching materials. It is good that the government is acting. It is totally unacceptable that in municipal schools' mother tongue teaching without being caught, violence-promoting propaganda can be used. Mr President, I would like to However, my questions as to what measures the Minister intends to take to clarify the schools in Sweden that the teaching material in question has been used and whether the Minister sees the need to take stock of more examples of inappropriate teaching materials have not been answered. Isn't the Minister interested in getting to the bottom of this? I am saddened when, instead, the Minister, in generalizing terms, makes confessional free schools in general suspect. We fully agree that teaching in Swedish schools, regardless of the principal, should be non-confessional. It would have been tasteful if the Minister had ever been able to admit that the vast majority of non-confessional schools are doing an excellent job and that those students who go there, on the whole, are doing better than students in many municipal schools – especially this time, when the books in question were discovered in a municipal school. Mr President, I would like to Can't the Minister admit that when Islamic teaching materials are used at an ordinary Swedish school, there are bigger problems in Sweden than if students who, at the family's own wish, have sought a secular school would happen to hear a voluntary grace prayer before the school lunch, or if students in an ordinary municipal school were allowed to go to a dramatization about why we celebrate Christmas? Is it not time for the Social Democratic Government to stop sifting mosquitoes and swallowing camels?
i-0c1c474de11bc945-20	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased with the recognition that Gudrun Brunegård gives. When the government went out a few weeks ago with new directives showing that, for the first time in decades, we want to take up the issue of teaching materials, we are doing something that is being done in virtually all other countries. We are unique in Sweden in that we have a very decentralised school, and we are also unique in that we have few rules on how teaching materials should be designed and how teaching materials should be adapted to the curricula. It is a violation of old Swedish tradition. For many years we had, and have constantly had, some form of quality control of teaching materials. I am pleased with the recognition that comes from Gudrun Brunegård that it is good that we are finally addressing this issue. I fully agree with Gudrun Brunegård that it is totally unacceptable with teaching material containing that kind of message. Anti-Semitic messages, strong confessional messages, racist messages, messages that celebrate war and messages that celebrate child soldiers should of course not occur in Swedish school. It's perfectly clear. If this occurs, I assume that the School Inspectorate will receive information about it in different ways from the school employees, from the parents or even from the students. I also assume that the School Inspectorate, with the mandate it has, is in control of the matter. In his speech, Gudrun Brunegård asked if I would initiate an inventory or survey of whether this particular teaching material is used in several schools. I am, as Gudrun Brunegård well knows, prevented from speaking about individual teaching materials or about the activities of individual schools, but I am pleased that there is an authority, the State's school inspection, which has the task of ensuring that the regulations are complied with in our schools. I believe that Gudrun Brunegård said – I wrote down here – that in my reply I gave generalizing and disparaging judgments about the secular free schools. I can't see any generalizing or derogatory judgments about any non-confessional schools in my answer. What I can see is a factual and clear statement of an investigation that the government has set up together with, and in consultation with, the Centre Party and the Liberals in the framework of the January Agreement. The task of the study is to review how non-confessional schools can be more clearly controlled, to propose a ban on the start-up of non-confessional schools and to look at how the regulations work out in the activities in relation to the confessional elements. Therefore, I think it is perfectly natural to refer to that investigation in my interpellation response. Mr President, I would like to As regards the question of whether there should be independent, secular schools in Sweden, the Government has no plans, within the framework of the January Agreement, to put forward proposals to ban all religious free schools. On the other hand, it is hardly a national secret that the Social Democratic Party has that proposal in its policy. But I do not need to explain this policy in an interpellation response.
i-0c1c474de11bc945-25	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that the vast majority of those who have fled to Sweden from totalitarian regimes are not interested in the use of the same regime's teaching materials in children's mother tongue teaching in the new country. With the problems of integration, it becomes all the more alarming if teaching materials that fertilise extremism are used in municipal schools. Of course, teaching should follow the Swedish curriculum in native language education, not curricula from the home country from which you have fled. The question of which teaching material is used in Swedish teaching is therefore of great importance, and it is up to the individual school, or possibly the municipality, to purchase teaching material. But how should a Swedish vice-chancellor know if there are teaching material in the different native languages in which the students are to be taught? How can the Vice-Chancellor assess whether the teaching materials comply with the Swedish school's curriculum and values? There such help can be of great benefit. Now I happen to know that there are teaching materials in Persian that follow the Swedish school law and the curriculum written by many years of Swedish-Iranians. But, Mr President, was the case in the municipality of Östhammar a pure accident at work because the mother tongue teacher did not know that there are Swedish-produced alternatives for all stages of school? Or is this part of a common theme or even a deliberate agenda aimed at radicalising young people with a certain background, hidden behind the Swedish school's lack of knowledge of foreign languages? We will not know if the government does not have the event investigated and take stock of the extent to which the current textbooks or similar have been used around Sweden, in that mother tongue or in other native languages. I am therefore asking again whether the Minister intends to follow up on this issue. When I was in Tanzania about a month ago, I visited some schools. I also visited Sida and the Embassy, which works with The Global Partnership for Education. Sweden provides large amounts of money to help a country develop teaching materials. The entire Tanzanian curriculum has been reviewed and updated and helped them write new teaching materials. Then it is a little strange that there is no record in Sweden of which teaching materials are used in our teaching when we can help other countries to develop good, neutral teaching materials that support human rights and the declarations that we support.
i-0c1c474de11bc945-30	Mr President, I would like to Of course it's paradoxical! Sweden, according to the principle story, has no study material control. At the same time, we are working to ensure that there are high quality teaching materials for children with functional variations. This is one of the major tasks that SPSM has to work with, that is to ensure quality and produce really good teaching material support. We have also made sure, through various missions, that the state has produced teaching material on, for example, the history of the Roma, for the reason that it was something that the so-called market did not satisfy. Last but not least, we ensure that aid provides high-quality teaching materials in several countries where needs are high. This is one of the reasons why, early in my term of office, I decided that we in Sweden should review how we ensure the quality of the teaching materials used. Gudrun Brunegård has raised examples of teaching materials that, according to newspaper information, contain grossly incorrect elements. At the same time, however, we know from the various reviews by the Swedish School Inspectorate that there are teaching materials that do not illustrate, for example, the position of women in history. We know that there is a major shortage of teaching material in how gender equality is portrayed. We also know that our teaching materials sometimes do not exist in physical form in schools. It is copied, and it is printed out material from the net. It is high time that there was a discussion and debate on how teaching materials could contribute to high quality teaching. Mr President, I would like to International research also shows that teaching materials have a major and important role to play in the learning outcomes of students and in how teaching can be structured. Especially in times of teacher shortage, it is important that there are teaching materials that can be trusted. The fact that the study is being set up after decades of total lack of regulation of the quality of teaching materials is a major step forward. I'm really looking forward to hearing the investigation's proposals. Gudrun Brunegård highlighted the heavy responsibility that today rests on principals and teachers. That's it. It is a heavy responsibility that rests on the headmaster's shoulders. In fact, with the system in place today, it is the rector's responsibility to ensure that teaching materials are of sufficient quality even when they are in foreign languages, in the context of, for example, mother tongue teaching. It is for this reason, among other reasons, that the investigation has been produced. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight how important it is for school staff to report when they discover the kind of errors that have been reported. The school manager in a local authority who clearly said so can serve as a good example of how important it is to keep a proper track of the teaching resources at the level of the head. I should like to point out once again that I do not think we will agree on the question of non-confessional schools. I am, just like Gudrun Brunegård, convinced that there are many fine examples of good teaching and education for students who go to independent schools with a secular focus. However, anyone who today looks up a regular daily newspaper and finds information about non-confessional schools, or non-confessional ones, under the criminal side rather than the pages on educational development is actually rather distressed.
i-0c1c474de11bc945-37	Mr President, I would like to We don't want a control society. We defend Swedish democracy with both freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of religion and freedom of conscience. So there is a lot we need to consider how to design teaching materials. But we must not be naive. There must be a way of examining whether the teaching materials that appear on the market follow the values of the Swedish curriculum and do not directly counteract the values that are written in there. Therefore, I appreciate that the government has taken on these issues, which both I and many others have asked, and take them so seriously that one should now look at how to contribute to students in Swedish schools getting access to teaching materials based on the Swedish curriculum. It will be interesting to follow what that review will show. Unfortunately, however, when Östhammar municipality turned to the School Inspectorate, they were told that they could not do anything about these teaching materials. So there is a problem with how we are doing today. I would like to point out that this is a municipal school. It's not a secular school, it's a municipal school. We must not be blinded by the fact that there are non-confessional free schools and focus on them. It is equally important to look at how the regulations and school law are complied with in municipal schools. I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister for Education has stated here and now, and also in the past, that it does not intend to withdraw the permits of independent secular schools that are doing well. I would just like to ask in the last speech: will the government allow existing schools that are well-behaved to open branches?
i-0c1c474de11bc945-42	Mr President, I would like to Gudrun Brunegård concludes his final speech by asking a completely different question. I should like to refer to the investigation that looks at the matter but also to the forthcoming preparation of that issue. We will certainly be able to come back to this in more interpellation debates and other contexts. I would like to take up another point that Gudrun Brunegård mentioned in one of his speeches. She said a little bit that municipal schools should be able to have reviews of why we celebrate Christmas. This is how we approach lucia in Christmastime, and in Advent it is good to know that the Swedish school should be free from confessional expressions within the framework of teaching. Within the framework of education, non-confessional independent schools may have different forms of religious expression, but municipal schools may not. It is a system that has been in place for a number of years now. Sometimes there are misconceptions that this would mean that you as a school child in Sweden must not learn about Advent, must not celebrate lucia and walk lucia trains, must not visit a church in Advent time and must not sing hymns. That's what you get. The Swedish school should be open to Swedish traditions, and the school that organises a non-confessional Christmas celebration where one clearly but without secular elements describes to the children why we celebrate Christmas acts entirely according to the curriculum. I am always equally distressed when I hear various hints that this would not be allowed. My message to Swedish principals and teachers is therefore that they should not be afraid to celebrate lucia or go to church in Advent time, nor be afraid to act according to the curriculum – but always in the municipal school refrain from religious practice and confessional expression.
