i-LfLxE6zgnc3TzpkWB6vCYH	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse our reservation 15 on car support under paragraph 14 and reject the other reservations contained in the report. Today we are debating motions that have been received during the general period of exercise and are about support for people with disabilities. During the last parliamentary year, Parliament adopted new national targets and a direction for disability policy. The strategy is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and achieve equality in living conditions and full participation. Although public health in Sweden in an international perspective is good and is developing positively for the vast majority of people, development has slowed down or stood still for some groups. If you look at the Swedish Public Health Agency's report, you can see that people with disabilities of all ages report worse living conditions than the rest of the population. They work less and are more often in financial vulnerability. There are also large differences between the sexes here. Even the lifestyles differ between people who have or do not have a disability, and the perceived health is generally worse. Inequality in health is created by different groups in society having systematically different living conditions and habits. The Government's objective in the field of public health is to create social conditions for good health on equal terms and to close the avoidable health gaps within a generation. The red-green government has done a lot in the area of economic equality, for example. It is extremely important because we know that economic vulnerability has a negative impact on health and that there is a risk of being stuck in structural conditions that are not favourable to the life situation. The Red-Green Government has also made major investments in welfare, such as increased levels of the transfer system. But, of course, more measures are needed, and I therefore welcome the fact that the government's special investigators are reviewing governance, objectives and follow-up on the basis of the new disability plan – in other words, how there will be a workshop of our goals. Madam President, I would like There's an announcement about car support. In order to achieve a more efficient and better system, new provisions were adopted which entered into force in 2017. I share the view that things did not turn out as we had planned and that action had to be taken quickly. However, the Government has already commissioned both the Swedish Transport Administration and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to submit proposals for improvements, as has been done. We assume that this is being prepared urgently and that the government will then come back with proposals. That is why we believe that an announcement is not necessary. Nevertheless, Madam President, it is the responsibility of all of us to highlight issues and work on proposals that lead to more equality and security for the population. Not only do people with functional variations benefit, but society as a whole benefits by making it more stable and secure. In the public discussion and in the debate it is largely about the law on support and service for certain disabled people, abbreviated LSS. I have a great deal of sympathy for this because it is a unique law of rights that offers great opportunities for participation and leisure time. For many people, efforts are about basic prerequisites for a good life. For many years, the application of LSS law has had consequences especially for users with personal assistance. In the debate, it is said many times that it is the government's fault. The legislative proposals adopted during the last parliamentary term were merely aimed at ensuring that some serious consequences for aid beneficiaries would not arise. For example, we clarified how preparedness and waiting time should be interpreted. Recently, a report has been submitted to the government, the review of LSS operations and assistance payments. Unfortunately, the investigation was met with great doubts, but I have received signals that more and more people perceive it as there are both better and worse things in it. I think it is important that we handle the process carefully in the future, but it is also important that we, as politicians, dare to look at the investigation and take on board what is relevant. The agreement reached in January 2019 between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party states, among other things, that personal assistance and assistance compensation should be characterised by high quality and legal certainty. Everyone who is entitled to support should receive it. Even in this year's government declaration, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven stated clear goals for this group: The opportunity for a job, a good life and a meaningful leisure time will be improved for everyone with different forms of disability. The right to self-care, breathing and probe feeding assistance shall be restored. The person entitled to personal assistance shall receive it. Finally, the Parliament will shortly take a position on a proposal that will ensure breathing and probe feeding as basic needs. The government, together with the cooperation parties, has begun to deliver for a safer and safer LSS legislation.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-14	Madam President, I would like Today, as I said, we are debating the treatment of some 60 requests for exercise from general exercise time. In committee, as we have heard, there has been a majority in favour of making two announcements to the government. One is that the government should set up a new investigation into interpreting services for people with hearing loss and language disorder, and the other is that the government should urgently prepare the follow-up that has been carried out on the reformed car support and come back with proposals on how car support can be more effective. I would like to start by saying that we have supported this. There are many important issues highlighted in today's report, but unfortunately we have found ourselves in a situation where many of them have been given low priority because of the acute situation in which many people's lives have been torn apart and where almost everyone in need of support feels anxious and frustrated. Scrapmeter after columnmeter with scary stories directly from reality has been read in different media. Reports and warning flags have replaced each other, and despite valiant attempts to pour oil on the waves, little has happened. The situation remains acute. The government has now put forward proposals that probe feeding and breathing should be counted as basic needs. However, this has not been done as a result of any January agreement, as it appears, but as a result of strong pressure from organisations, politicians and – indeed – from a committee in which all party groups are united. Regardless of who takes credit for this, it is a step in the right direction, but the proposal has not mitigated the concerns and criticisms significantly. A ruling from the Supreme Administrative Court has already established that probing is a basic need. The problem now is how to apply the judgment. The crux of the matter is what should be considered to be close to integrity to be regarded as a basic need. So you don't count the whole probe feed, you just count some parts. That, of course, is not reasonable, and it must, of course, be addressed urgently. I firmly believe that the need must be allowed to govern and that probe feeding must be viewed in its entirety. How do you think it will work in practice if assistance hours are not granted for the entire module? This is a problem that concerns not only probe feeding but also other basic needs. Since I entered Parliament, I have fought for a review and clarification of the basic needs. I have long pointed out that it is strange that only the intake of food, for example, is regarded as a basic need – that is, just to bring food to the mouth. To this day, I propose a review of the basic needs and that it be clarified in law v ad that is what we are really talking about. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment No 5, which highlights this very point. Another re-debated issue which has also raised concerns is that of two-yearreviews. They are, of course, temporarily suspended, but the assessment was in the past that they should be reinstated when a reformed assistance legislation is in place. I believe that this is an excellent opportunity to review the system in terms of how it can be changed and how it can be simplified. It is an excellent opportunity to explore the possibility of a system in which not all persons with disabilities need to be reconsidered after two years. In the case of some disabilities that improve and become less restrictive over time, a two-year review may be justified, but this does not apply to everyone. There are people whose permits unfortunately do not change, and for these people I mean that exceptions should be made. Now is the perfect opportunity to bring about a more long-term, sustainable and efficient system before the two-year re-evaluations are reintroduced. When will we have a better opportunity for this than now? Madam President, I would like There's a lot I'd like to say about the LSS in general. I would like to talk about rest periods and waiting times, self-care and excessive and unreasonable parental responsibility. I could stand here for a long time and talk about the bad signal policy that I mean has been pursued, about the order to break the trend in the number of hours in assistance compensation and so on. But I'll also try to stick to today's topic. What I would like to highlight now is the need to look at the whole. It has consequences when people are denied or have fewer hours, just as it has positive consequences when someone gets the help they need to function fully. I believe that we need to look at the overall picture and not just at the number of assistance hours. We have parents who are on their knees, who are on sick leave and are therefore unable to contribute to working life. If we go down somewhere, the costs will end up somewhere else. I would like to see a careful review of the socio-economic consequences, not only in crowns and coins, but also in personal terms for the individual and for the family around. After all, the person who does not receive assistance is likely – or at best – to receive some other effort that costs time and money; it just ends up somewhere else. I therefore believe that we cannot say that the increase in the number of hours is simply an increase in costs, but we must look at the whole. What would it mean for society at large if we did not have assistance to the extent that we have? With this, Madam President, I would also like to endorse reservation 7. I therefore call for reservations 5 and 7.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-32	Madam President, I would like What we are debating today in the Committee on Social Affairs is one of the most important issues in Sweden, namely the right to support people with disabilities. The right to support people with disabilities is about a wide range of measures that facilitate the lives of many people with disabilities. It is about housing, daily activities, support for the visually impaired, interpreting services and much more. The efforts within the LSS have a large width and should be so. In particular, the facility with special service, which currently includes around 25 000 people, has had and is of great importance to the population. This effort has enabled many youths and adults to leave the institution and move away from home to an ordinary apartment. Just as we defend personal assistance, we must defend homes with special services and the right for children under the age of 16 to continue to have assistance – all in order to create an independent life and participation in society. However, the recent debate, anger and anxiety among disabled people, relatives, mothers and fathers, and a troubled public can be linked, above all, to the issue of assistance. The enormous anxiety and anger that we have – rightly – faced is the result of an investigation carried out by the government during the last parliamentary term with completely the wrong directive and entry. The directives stated that additional savings needed to be made in view of significant increases in the cost of assistance compensation. The previous government's eagerness to save on the right to personal assistance for people with disabilities is the opposite of solidarity. It is a clear departure from the Swedish welfare society's basic idea of helping the weak. For the Center Party, it is unthinkable to support such proposals. Since 2014, we have seen that assistance has deteriorated in a number of areas, partly as a result of government decisions, directives for investigations and the governance of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. This has led to a devastating situation for families, children, persons entitled to assistance and relatives, who have been hit very hard. However, the government has also not wanted to put forward the necessary legislative proposals following a series of unreasonable court decisions that have been about things as obvious as seeing breathing and probing as basic needs. Since joining the Social Affairs Committee, I have met and discussed with people in need of assistance, relatives, families, user organisations, lawyers and so on. I have participated in panel discussions, heard stories and life's fate and answered many emails from a worried public. All these stories and questions testify to a great deal of concern about the development that LSS and assistance have taken. Madam President, I would like To reproduce a small part of all these stories and to give an insight into how many people feel, I would like to read some of an email that I received from a person from my constituency who needs assistance around the clock. I think it sums up and pinpoints the concerns that many people feel. This is how the person writes: It is with great sadness that I have been forced today to take note of a proposal, drawn up by a government-funded inquiry, which, if carried out, takes away my authority and my dignity. The same right that I was with such pride and fought for in 1993 is now being taken away from me and my comrades. A lifetime as a human being I have lived, but only a few of these years have I fully experienced myself as an adult who has been able to decide how I want to live my life. Before the development of the assistance reform in 1994, I lived in many ways on the terms of others. I could not decide in the morning what the day would mean but had to plan long in advance to, for example, go out to a restaurant with my beloved wife, take our child on an adventure or carry out my political commitments. Despite my relatively successful work, I could not feel like an adult with the right to make my own decisions about my own life. Not until the assistance reform was implemented could I finally feel fully involved in society. Now, in the light of the investigation that is on the table, my life and independence are again threatened. Every time I read this email, I get very touched. But I am also determined to continue to fight for the LSS and its foundations to return to what it once was, a reform of freedom and a law of rights, because the right to personal assistance is basically the right to a dignified life and a question of individual freedom for those with the greatest need in our society. I, and many with me, now look forward to our making constructive progress on this issue and ensuring high quality and legal certainty for all within the LSS and with the right to assistance. I am therefore very pleased that, for example, we now have a majority in the Riksdag to decide on a legislative change so that probe feeding and breathing will again be fundamental needs. It is thanks to the January agreement, in which the Center Party and the Liberals in particular have pushed these issues hard, that we have been able to quickly put forward concrete proposals on this particular subject. The assessment is that the proposal will come to Parliament this spring and that the law will be able to enter into force as early as 1 July 2019. But this is just the beginning. This amendment is only a first step in the process of restoring and developing LSS. Now we must continue to engage in dialogue and put our ears to the ground – all in order to increase the security of those people and families who need assistance. They should never have ended up in the situation they were, and now it will be corrected, because the LSS and personal assistance are something we all have to fight for. It is a law of rights that concerns all of us; one day it may be you or I who need assistance. Thanks to the January agreement and the agreement reached by the Center Party and the Liberals, we can now begin this work. The January agreement clearly states that more important improvements will be made, including the narrowing of parental responsibility and the high quality of personal assistance and assistance compensation and legal certainty. The agreement therefore provides for a new assistance investigation to ensure that these important improvements are implemented in the best possible way. The question of the head office of personal assistance is also to be investigated. I intend to follow the issues of LSS and assistance very closely, and I will press for the agreement to be implemented. Those who have now been denied, lost or significantly reduced assistance due to the narrow application of the LSS in recent years need clear answers. You have to be able to live, not just survive. I will conclude by saying that I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, and I support the Center Party's reservation No 12.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-54	Madam President, I would like I object a little bit to Sofia Nilsson's history statement that it is politics that has had an impact on LSS's refusals and want to hear what she bases it on. There have been a number of judgments. As early as 2008, the first judgment, which had a decisive impact on LSS legislation and how it looked at fundamental needs, was delivered. Throughout the last four years of the alliance government, the issue was discussed by and to. We Social Democrats in the Committee on Social Affairs even made an announcement and asked what the government intended to do because the number of rejections increased. Then there have been a number of judgments that have produced effects. I just want to ask Sofia Nilsson the question: Can you state what in the law we have changed during the last period that has made there have been so many rejections?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-58	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Mikael Dahlqvist! It is very remarkable that in retrospect we are trying to distort and change what has actually happened. The directive you gave was that, in view of substantial increases in the cost of assistance payments, additional savings also need to be made. That is exactly the basis for the directives you gave to the investigation, and that is what has formed the basis for the whole discussion that has now taken place. With these directives, the Social Insurance Agency has done exactly what you asked them to do. You wanted Försäkringskassan to actually save money on our disabled and on assistance. That is what we are opposed to. That is precisely what is at the root of the great concern and the whole discussion that has now been going on.
i-GycyVnVfbjvZT3XSf7hchU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Nilsson, for your answer! Our authorities in this country are independent. There are clear rules on how to deal with the authorities, and if you do not follow them, you end up with the KU. Försäkringskassan has interpreted the judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court through legal advice, not through a letter from the Government. I was told the other day when students in the law program went through LSS. There was a professor there who lectured. He said this to the students: The judgments of the past few years have nothing to do with politics. They're all about law. So even he supports it. My question remains. You claim firmly that it is the government that has influenced the case-law applications of the Social Insurance Agency and the Supreme Administrative Court. What is your view on the matter?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-65	Madam President, I would like Again, the Social Insurance Agency performs and performs exactly what the government commissions them, and this time the mission was to review the costs and make savings. The commitments and what the Försäkringskassan has subsequently implemented are the ones that have caused it to become these judgments, and this is based on the work of the Försäkringskassan. If the directive had not come, we would not have been in the situation that we have been. If the Social Insurance Agency had not received the saving requirement, it would not have acted in the way it has actually done. That is the origin of this whole discussion.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-67	I would like to remind Members once again that we are not pitting each other in the speaker's seat but speaking through the President.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-68	Madam President, I would like The purpose and goal of the Left Party is for Sweden to become an equal country, a country where we should all have the opportunity to live a good life with the right to good and equal education, secure jobs with good pay, a home that we can afford and a well-being and a security system that is there when we need it. As we all know, there are groups in our society that do not enjoy those rights at all. There are also groups that are exposed to direct structural discrimination. Today, Madam President, the moment your functionality breaks the norm, your chances of life will be severely limited. In an accident, a broken neck, or if you are a child born with special needs, you can at great risk be sentenced to a worse schooling, live a life in unemployment, not be able to live with anyone you want and where you want, have really bad money and also get a worse care than others. As if this were not enough, you will no longer have equal access to the public space. Going to the movies, going out to eat or just taking a walk will no longer be an obvious feature of your everyday life, but a project lined with obstacles – obstacles created by political decisions. In 2008, Sweden signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is an obligation to ensure that all people in our country have the same rights and the same obligations in our democracy. The Convention is today seen in Sweden as an important guide in the work on human rights for people with disabilities but is not legally binding. This means that when Sweden has now repeatedly received criticism from the UN, we have seen their proposals for action as recommendations. They have not brought about powerful changes. So we can continue to violate rights without any real consequences. One of the most obvious examples of Sweden's breach of the Convention is the reductions in personal assistance. A Contracting State may not back down from rights already in place, as Sweden does in the case of LSS. This is where we've got stingy criticisms. Limitations of rights may only be made in certain particularly serious situations, for example in the event of a financial crisis. But despite Sweden's booming economy, the attack on assistance has been a crude and brutal fact. It can hardly be clearer than that new steps are needed to guarantee our fundamental rights. Therefore, we believe that it is now high time that the functional law convention as a law was investigated in the same way as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, both to make the rights of persons with disabilities visible and to highlight how well Swedish law ensures the convention, for example, in terms of accessibility, inclusion in the education system and inclusion in society. Madam President, I would like It is not possible to say anything other than that disability policy is an area that has been extensively debated for a long time. It is an issue that has aroused strong feelings, but there has been too little political workshop. I myself have almost lost track of how many times I've stood here and talked, begged and, according to some, even threatened to bring about a change in personal assistance – but without reaching all the way. After years of total political failure, we now have an LSS legislation that is so eroded that only a few per cent are granted assistance from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Thousands of people have lost their fundamental rights. The situation is not just an emergency – it is directly devastating. After tough pressure from us as well as from the disability movement, politics has had to act, but still without the situation actually changing. In some respects, it's almost like we're going the wrong way. In January, an investigation was presented that did not give much more than a substantial step backwards, with proposals that cut up an absolutely fantastic right law and also want to exclude children but in no way respond to our demand to restore the LSS. It is a product that it will be very difficult for us to support. Now the new government has promised a change of law that means that probe feeding and breathing should be seen as basic needs. It is a positive though obvious step, which, however, risks becoming a blow to the air. The basic problem still remains, namely the judgment of 2009 which states that fundamental needs must be close to privacy in order to qualify for personal assistance. As long as the law is not adjusted on the basis of that judgment, the situation will not change. This is a demand we've been pushing for almost ten years. Yet we have not been able to make it all the way. The Left Party is serious that our functionality should not determine our right to live our lives on equal terms. Therefore, we want the work for the functional law convention to become Swedish law to begin. We also demand that the government take a holistic approach and urgently adjust the law to all judgments since 2009. Last but not least, I would like to express our satisfaction at the fact that the committee has supported our motion on interpreting. Sometimes, after all, politics progresses. We naturally agree with all our reservations, but today we choose to accept only reservation 1.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-80	Madam President, I would like Throughout the last term of office, the Left Party had cooperation with the government. The Left Party had the opportunity to do something like what we have done and to conclude an agreement with the government. But not at any time, not at any time, did the Left Party act in that way. Instead, the Left Party had all its focus on profits in welfare and on combating private welfare business. Madam President, I would like My question to Maj Karlsson is: Why did you not do anything during the last parliamentary term? Why did you not conclude an agreement that focused on the issue and could move the issue forward for our disabled people?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-82	Madam President, I would like I thank Sofia Nilsson for the question. First of all, I think there are very few people who would say that the Left Party has done nothing on the issue of the LSS. We did indeed have budgetary cooperation with the government. But this is not a budget issue, it is a matter of law. However, I absolutely do not agree with what Mikael Dahlqvist talked about before. When we see that a law is being eroded, it is our duty as a legislative assembly to ensure that the law is restored according to its basic intent. That is what would have been required, and we have worked for that every day throughout the last parliamentary term.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-83	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Karlsson for his answer and would like to continue on the same theme. In the case of aid beneficiaries and LSS, private welfare companies are very large. A lot of people hire relatives. Many create their own companies and hire them. But the policy of the Left Party, which you have been pursuing for many years, is negative for private welfare entrepreneurs. How do you think about developing that part? Many persons eligible for assistance rely on private welfare companies to manage their daily lives.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-85	Madam President, I would like The right to choose is part of the Personal Assistance Act. We don't mind. It's a right you have. Nor is it a problem that there are different private operators, different cooperatives and so on. What we are absolutely against is taking tax money from us and the people who have these rights and making the money a profit. The money should go back to the business, no matter what functionality we have. I find it odd that you do not consider it as important and reasonable as we do. It is clear that our common resources should go back to the people.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-86	Madam President, I would like Maj Karlsson wishes us to restore LSS and its intentions. So do we. But Maj Karlsson also said in his speech that the investigation that has been done belongs in the trash. Then my question will be to Maj Karlsson: How should we as a legislative assembly proceed if we cannot use parts of the investigation, where we looked at basic needs, among other things? The risk is that in that case we will have to carry out a new investigation, and then perhaps we will not have new legislation in place for two or three years.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-87	Madam President, I would like If you had listened to us from the beginning, Mikael Dahlqvist, when we criticised the investigative directives that you gave and which were based on reducing the cost of assistance, we would not have had this problem today. The basic problem is that we have a number of judgments that have eroded the legislation. What we have been saying for ten years and we are continuing to repeat is that what is needed is to adjust the law to the judgments that have fallen, so that we can regain legislation based on the basic intention. This investigation involves a break-up that leads us in many ways to go back to what we abandoned when we got this amazing right law. I am so sorry that you did not listen to the criticism that we highlighted. That's where the basic problem lies. That is what means that we have lost another four years of work to save what we have been able to be so proud of.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-90	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Karlsson for his reply. The number of judgments is due to the fact that the current legislation is hollow and leaves considerable scope for different interpretation options. I think we agree on that. One of the purposes of the investigation, Maj Karlsson, was to close these gaps. It is about how we define basic needs, how we expect help with dressing etc. One can always discuss the directives in the investigation, but I claim that there are many good directives and many good things in the investigation. I am not an investigator, but I think that we as political decision-makers need to be able to deal with those parts that are not good in investigations in order to be able to move on with other parts. My question remains. Maj Karlsson himself says that this has been delayed for four years. But her suggestion that we start a new investigation means that we have to delay this for another two, three, four years. I still ask: how are we going to move forward on the question of whether we cannot use the existing investigation?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-93	Madam President, I would like The problem, Mikael Dahlqvist, is that there is now an investigation on the table that does not correspond to the t that we demand. Yes, we may have to wait another two or three years, but you can urgently present an investigation in which we will go back from 2009 to today and adjust so that we return to the basic intention. If you had listened from the beginning, we would not have had to wait at all, but I would rather wait than smash a law of rights. At least I can tell you that.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-95	Madam President, I would like Anton, Tina, Orlando, Amanda, Robert, Richard and Alicia – there are a few of the children, young and adults with extensive disabilities who have suffered inhumanely from the historically severe cuts in the LSS that the S-MP government started during the last term of office. Anton is 24 years old and suffers from several neuropsychiatric diagnoses such as asperger, bipolar disorder, attention disorder and social phobia. In 2009, Anton received personal assistance. It became a security that was at his side 24 hours a day and gave him the opportunity to live an independent life. Eventually Anton was able to move to his own apartment. But in the summer of 2017, Försäkringskassan decided to withdraw the assistance completely. The reason was that Antons's mental illness was not severe enough, despite the medical certificate showing that Antons's medical condition has not improved compared with previous assessment of the need for assistance. Anton also did not receive assistance via the municipality, but instead he was offered a place in an LSS accommodation. But since Anton's mental illness makes him incapable of having many and unknown people around him, it would not work. Antons's mother Malin tells us that his son has lost the joy of life since he lost his assistance. He is terrified of the various people who come from the home service and clean his apartment. Anton is isolated in the apartment. He doesn't want anything but to lie in bed eating comfort food. The fact that Anton has been deprived of the right to live an independent life is inhumane, unworthy and totally unacceptable. Thankfully, when society fails, many of the families affected have come together and support as best they can. But how long will they last? And what happens to all who have no relatives who can help? Madam President, I would like There are no economic benefits when the suspension of assistance provides less support, increased human suffering and, in many cases, increased socio-economic costs. When you meet a person who has lost his or her assistance, even though he or she continues to have a great need for help and support to cope with his or her everyday life, it is clear that the suspension of assistance generates costs in other items of the state budget, or in the budgets of the municipalities. These may be people with disabilities who cannot do their job without the help of an assistant, and we will then lose tax revenue, or if people whose health is impaired when they are not helped by the training required to maintain the basic condition and muscle strength or because without assistance they cannot get out in the fresh air. The deterioration of health can lead to increased health care costs. Many relatives of people with extensive disabilities live under constant pressure and stress. Often family members are forced to quit their jobs in order to support their family members. Sick leave is common. Nor must we forget the siblings of people with disabilities, who often do not receive the attention they need and deserve. Parents' time and energy are simply not enough, which in turn can contribute to mental illness within the family. Madam President, I would like We need to look at the whole picture. I am therefore grateful that the Moderates agree with us Christian Democrats, through the wording of our common budget, to safeguard the long-term sustainability of the assistance reform, both legally and economically, and taking into account the overall socio-economic costs. In order to avoid the temptation to withdraw assistance in order to make savings in a specific state budget, we Christian Democrats believe that a survey should be carried out of the overall socio-economic impact of the LSS efforts. I therefore support Amendment No 7 by the Christian Democrats in the report. Madam President, I would like It is difficult to take in, but the case law that has been brought forward by the S-MP Government's directive to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency on breaking the cost development of assistance has had such devastating effects that even people who need help breathing and getting nutrition through probes are not entitled to assistance today. We Christian Democrats have long fought to restore the intention of the LSS. When the M-KD budget received support in the Riksdag in December, a first important step was taken by ensuring the obvious: The government was urged to change the law urgently so that breathing and probe feeding should be basic needs. While it is gratifying that the government is now taking steps to implement the announcement in the M-KD budget and that a legislative change is now under way, it is clear that much work remains to be done. Several lawyers in the disability movement have warned that the draft legal text allows the Social Insurance Agency to continue with the same restrictive interpretations around the probe feed as today, i.e. that it is only the time it takes to connect on and off the probe – not the time it takes to bring the nutrition into the body – that counts as basic needs. Such a loophole would be permanent today's case law and would obviously have to be closed, otherwise the whole purpose of the amendment falls. We Christian Democrats will therefore do everything in our power to ensure that the basic need is not divided into parts that are of a privacy sensitive nature and parts that are not. In other words, all the elements and all the time needed to carry out the entire operation must be considered as basic needs. We Christian Democrats believe that this method of assessment should apply to all basic needs. It's crucial to restoring the intention of the LSS. I therefore support Amendment No 6 by the Christian Democrats in the report, which also includes other necessary measures. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats want the state to be responsible for all assistance. Today, people with municipal assistance are at risk of losing or reducing support if they move from one municipality to another. It is a postcode lottery where the risk is that it is the municipality's budget, not the person's needs, that determines what support is given. This is neither worthy nor legally secure. We Christian Democrats also want the exercise of parenthood and the possibility of working to be part of the basic needs. The fact that parenthood is not considered to be a basic need is in danger of causing a person to refrain from being a parent or to refrain from being fully involved as a parent. This is not acceptable, we believe. Similarly, we believe that it is not reasonable for a person who is able to work and may even already have a job to be prevented from working because of the lack of personal assistance or other assistance within the LSS, such as escorting. Madam President, I would like Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said in his government declaration here in the Chamber earlier this year: It is now high time to convert beautiful words into action. We have to decide which society we want. In a Christian Democratic society, Anton, Tina, Orlando, Amanda, Robert, Richard and Alicia, together with all other people with extensive disabilities, have a self-evident right to LSS and personal assistance. Like everyone else, they have the right to participate in society and live their lives, fully, on their own terms. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that we Christian Democrats also support the committee's position on an investigation into interpreting services and that the government should urgently follow up and come up with proposals on how car support can be more effective.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-113	Madam President, I would like LSS legislation is, as you know, a right law. This means that you get decisions granted if you have needs. It's the same with the state budget. It is a forecast of how much expenditure will be, and by the end of the year and by the end of the year, the necessary resources will be allocated. Therefore, a budgetary reinforcement in this respect may not be as relevant. But my question to Pia Steensland is about something completely different. It is about your budget that went through last autumn. We know that people with disabilities are financially vulnerable. We also know that financial vulnerability leads to ill health. When you look at your budget that governs Sweden, you see that inequalities between the weak groups and the strong groups are increasing. How does Pia Steensland view this? How do you think that this policy protects the vulnerable, including people with disabilities?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-115	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Dahlqvist for the question. First of all, I would like to emphasise that the budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats is a budget reservation, that is to say, a change in certain parts of the budget submitted by the transitional government. Then you can't change and improve everything. We focused on what was most acute, that people were not able to get help with their breathing and probe feeding. Apart from that, we have made no changes to the proposal that you yourself, Mikael Dahlqvist, and your government is behind regarding compensation for disabled people. What I find remarkable, if we are talking about gaps, is that in the agreement with the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals, you yourselves have agreed to remove the defence tax. That's a big difference to our budget reservation. The tax relief proposed by the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, provided a maximum tax relief of SEK 500 a month. A bank manager would receive a maximum of SEK 500 more a month. But by abolishing the military tax, the bank manager receives SEK 46 600 in tax reduction each month. Then I wonder how you think about your budget and your position in this agreement contributing to the reduction of gaps.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-117	Madam President, I would like I thank Pia Steensland for her reply. With regard to the current budget, it is interesting to see how much more those with low incomes, up to SEK 20 000 - 25 000 a month, receive after a sixth job tax deduction. As you know, Pia Steensland, you have to give and take in a negotiation. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats do not have 51% of the mandates in this House. Perhaps it would have been a more offensive distribution policy. But there are other taxes to be adjusted in the future, which will give us a different distribution. We will discuss this in the future to find a good way. An equal society is important for health, and it is particularly important for those who are weak. It is worth noting that the Christian Democrats are defending the LSS legislation. I think that's great. I share the view that this is a very important reform, and we must ensure that it works in the future. But you give with one hand and take with the other. That is why my question is still: how much more money do those who have activity compensation with your budget with which our government governs, Pia Steensland?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-121	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Dahlqvist for the question. My answer is that we have made no changes to that part in relation to the budget that the transitional government and your own party are behind. We did not have the opportunity to review any more parts, because we have only made a budget reservation. Investigations and so on are needed to make changes in the other parts. I share Mikael Dahlqvist's view that a great deal needs to be done for people with long-term exclusion from, for example, the labour market because of a disability. We need to look at how we can improve this. It is a big difference to have an opportunity to get back to work. I therefore share the intention that we must work on this in the future. But we had no way of doing it last autumn.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-123	Madam President, I would like Freedom, participation and self-determination for all people – that's how simple it is. The word right of function is simply no stranger than that every person should be able to live his own life, whoever he is and whatever happens to him in life. For us Liberals, real success in this struggle was a prerequisite for a January agreement at all. The last few years have been a darkness with government directives to break the development of assistance hours, with people who have lost their assistance and with new case law. The people deprived of their assistance have been deprived of their lives. They don't have time to wait for us in here. Madam President, I would like Now we are taking important steps forward. It's still dark, but it's lighting up ahead. Some help in breathing and feeding will be given to people right now. But we still have a lot to do. We must be fully aware of that. The right to assistance must, of course, be guaranteed for all self-care. It must not take a day longer than necessary. It is also not enough to restore just what was once. Together with the Center Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, we Liberals have agreed that a new assistance investigation will be set up this year to strengthen the right to assistance for the needs of supervision and to narrow down what can be considered a normal parental responsibility for a child according to reason. And more than that, Madam President. There must be no doubt about the quality of personal assistance and legal certainty. There have been problems there for a very long time. There must be an end to the postcode lottery. The state must take over responsibility for personal assistance for all those who need it, regardless of age. That's why we need a head man, not close to 300. Laws also need to be amended, and according to our constitution we must then prepare and investigate. No details should be left to chance. At the same time, however, we must also remember that there is a great deal of urgency for people. This preparation must therefore under no circumstances take undue time. We Liberals are not going to allow that. People don't have that time. Speaking of time, I would like to conclude by saying that the time for dismantling, fear and penetrating is over. The politics is being changed. Now is the time for dignity, self-determination and empowerment. And for us Liberals, this does not end. That is why I am in favour of the Liberals' reservation 14 on aids, and of course I also support all the liberal proposals. It is high time that health legislation was amended – tightened up and clarified – so that people could have better access to the tools they so badly need to be able to have an active everyday life and decide for themselves over their lives. We also know that mobility support is often much better than travel service. It should be in all municipalities. It cannot be freely chosen work. However, in terms of both aid and mobility support, it is today a bit like a tombola: some get it, others don't get it. It may depend on which side of a municipal border or county border you live. This is crazy. But we did not get any support for these proposals from the other parties this time. I protested against this, and I will continue to protest against it. The list can be made long over the proposals we see needed and need to be implemented in order for people to have a dignified life no matter what happens to them throughout life. Madam President, I would like For example, if more people with disabilities were municipal councillors, chairman of the education board of their municipality or MP, the world might look different. That is why we wanted to secure the support and assistance of those who want to engage politically. Unfortunately, however, the other members of the committee rejected this. Our proposal is out of business, and it's boring. But we're coming again, and I'm coming again. We never give up. I can promise you that. It's about what society we want to live in. It's about how we take care of each other in our country. It is about the freedom of those people who today have the least freedom. That is why we want more, simply because everything else is unthinkable.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-135	Madam President, I would like The future of personal assistance is vital for so many people. Restoring assistance replacements for breathing and probe feeding is a first and very important step. But just as you say, there's so much more to do. I share many of those intentions, and I know that the Liberals have good intentions on this issue. What is crucial is that we put political prestige aside on this issue. We need to find a consensus and move on. It is therefore gratifying that LSS and personal assistance are among the 73 points of the agreement between the Social Democrats, the Environment Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals. Nevertheless, I wonder how you Liberals are experiencing cooperation with the government on this issue. You have a little different entrance. How much chance do you have to influence the government in the process of restoring the intention with the LSS?
i-L3ScVhZ2fueb2YfFXnakfZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for the question! As Pia Steensland says, urgent and very important problems require unconventional solutions. That is what has happened in connection with the January agreement. So far, my view is that all parties are concerned that the agreement should be respected and that the points of the agreement should be fulfilled. On the other hand, we must be clear to all four parties that we have fundamentally different priorities. Not everyone loves all the points in this January agreement. We Liberals will refuse to give ourselves an inch if any other party would like to change parts of paragraph 64 of the January agreement on the freedom of all people. So far, I don't think it's necessary. I haven't seen any such signs. But if the slightest tendency toward such pursuits is discovered, we will put our foot down.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-141	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lina, for your answer! I have no doubt about your intentions on this matter. At the same time, we are already hearing some other notes from the Social Democrats in their speech on how to deal with the investigation and so on. They want to take advantage of certain parts, and you want to throw it in the trash. I know that you share the intention that we should have a state responsibility for assistance. From the Christian Democrats' side, we believe that we should take advantage of the parts of the investigation that show that it would be a good principal for assistance. You should of course bring children under the age of 16 and also people with mental disabilities. That's where I want your opinion if it's possible to take advantage of those parts. If we return to your ability to influence and cooperate with the government on the issue of personal assistance, there has been a legislative proposal on breathing and probe feeding. It was on the basis of the announcement in the M-KD budget that was also confirmed in your agreement. It now emerges that there are shortcomings in the memorandum and the bill. Lawyers from the disability movement have clearly pointed out that there are loopholes. The impact description in the base does not say that a single person with a probe should come back into the system. My question to Lina Nordquist is: What impact have you had in working with the memorandum? Had you read the memo before it was published?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-147	Madam President, I would like Pia Steensland is asking about the proposal that has just come about some breathing aid and feeding. It is barely part of the January agreement, I have to admit. It's far too small a part. The January agreement talks about all self-care. It also includes things that are unfortunately not so sexy but are very important to people. It's about stomies and many kinds of self-care. We see this as nothing more than a small step on a very long journey towards a dignified life for people. As far as the investigation is concerned, we are now discussing what will happen to it. An investigation, regardless of the investigator's own good intentions, can never achieve real success when the mission looks like it does. The mission aimed at maintaining the savings. That is why we are very sceptical about taking too much advantage of the investigation. It has simply been based on far too bad premises. That's it. Finally, as regards the words of other parties and whether I and the Liberals believe in the words of other Members and the words of other parties, I am not so interested in words. I'm interested in results.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-152	Madam President, I would like I can safely say that you from the Liberals have been our best friends in this fight, Lina Nordquist. You were involved in making the whole reform a reality. Now you are part of the government by an agreement. You have also made some sort of agreement on a new investigation that I have heard about. I'm still a little worried and unsure about what the new investigation will contain. I'd like some clarification. Will you work for us to adjust the law of the judgment of 2009 until now so that we have a real return to the very essence of the legislation? I would also like answers as to whether you will proceed with the proposals contained in the LSS investigation.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-154	Madam President, I would like First of all, we do not want a return to anything. We want to move forward. The judges have been misinterpreted in a devastating way for people. Judgments about massages have in some strange way been transferred to help with breathing and feeding. Judgments about waiting outside the bathhouse have also been transmitted in a way that has crazy consequences for people's everyday lives. Of course, it should not go on like that. All assistance must be legally secure. It must necessarily be the case that the person who needs assistance should receive that assistance wherever you live, and it must be of high quality. Nothing else is acceptable. I believe that the Liberals and the Left Party are in agreement. Then I myself have some doubts about the priorities of the Left Party in practice during the previous parliamentary term, where people's lives were devastated and the money and time was spent on free medicines for otherwise healthy children. However, I am pleased that we are in agreement on this issue, and I can promise that the Liberals will not fold an inch.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-159	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lina Nordquist, for your answer. I still have to ask you a question. It is clear that we will develop the work on personal assistance. But you still want to maintain the basic intention of the legislation, don't you? I just want a clarification there. Some of the most important parts of the problem are precisely the integrity-related parts of the assessment of basic needs. If we do not get to grips with this, the risk is that, for example, the new adjustment we are now making with probe feeding and breathing will have no effect. Of course we are going to modernise and develop, but the basic intention is strong when we talk about personal assistance and the law about it. I would like clarification there. I do not know whether I received an answer to the question as to whether you will now proceed with the proposals in the LSS investigation or how you are discussing it.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-162	Madam President, I would like Maj Karlsson asked if we would go ahead with the proposals in the previous investigation. I repeat: there are seeds there for something that could be good. It would be good to have a standard – if the hours were significantly higher so that it actually meant that people had a life with less bureaucracy but more freedom. The seeds are good, but there is too much missing to make it possible to take up the investigation as a whole. We therefore do not want to do so. The next question is whether we stand for the basic intentions of the LSS. Yes, of course we do. Right to function is about human rights. It is about all people having the same right as Maj Karlsson, myself, Madam President and all of us in this room to live their lives, be part of it, influence it, have freedom, scratch it on their backs or become Prime Minister. So yes, of course we are behind the original intentions of the LSS.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-164	Madam President, I would like Lina Nordquists's commitment to the issues cannot be mistaken. She is proud of the proposals and changes she believes she has made thanks to the cooperation with the Social Democrats, the Environment Party and the Center Party. And she has absolutely every right to be. But you get a little puzzled when you sit like this on the side of as listeners and listen when Lina Nordquist exclaims: Finally there will be some change! You almost get the feeling that these changes would not be possible to get in the previous group that Lina Nordquist has been in. But I have not understood that it would be so different that one can now cry out: Finally! Instead, I have found that there has been a consensus on the issues. It would therefore be interesting to hear whether Lina Nordquist has not seen the conditions for making these changes without agreeing to the cooperation agreement.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-166	Madam President, I would like Carina Ståhl Herrstedt asks why we could not do this with other parties. Yes, we would love to! But the mathematics of the Swedish Parliament made it impossible, as we saw it. The mathematics of the Swedish Parliament forced us to resort to unconventional solutions to create a better Sweden for the next four years. Otherwise, we'd be happy to get along with our regular friends. But now we had to get along with new, perhaps temporary, friends. Carina Ståhl Herrstedt talks about the M-KD budget. It is worth noting that the SEK 3 billion originally proposed by the Christian Democrats for precisely the right to function were reduced to one tenth of the final budget voted by the Riksdag. I would not say that the generosity of our former alliance friends has been entirely as great as the desire of liberals to pursue these issues. As I see it, the important thing is not with which we get the improvements through. The crucial thing is that people get their freedom back and that it is first restored and then strengthened.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-169	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lina Nordquist, for your answer. I agree that freedom, as Lina Nordquist says, should first be restored and then strengthened. There is a broad consensus on this, and that is what I was referring to. Lina Nordquist also said that she does not like words but that she likes action. Now I hear that it does not matter who is behind the proposals, and that is why I am being a little perplexed about this. There would have been a majority in this House for the proposals put forward by the Liberals no matter what. That is why I asked the question, and I do not really have any further question.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-171	Madam President, I would like As I said, the choice of budgetary partners during this term of office was not due to paragraph 64, the LSS reform. The election depended on the mathematics of the Chamber after the 2018 parliamentary elections. It forced us to try to find new ways to have a stable parliament and a stable society in the next few years. I'm very glad we did it. If we Liberals had not been given a say in restoring, restoring and strengthening people's freedom – especially the freedom of the weakest, those who today have the slightest freedom – there would have been no January agreement.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-173	Madam President, I would like My motto in politics and the reason why I am a politician is that I think that everyone should have the right to a good and dignified life wherever in the world and wherever in the life you are. This is not the case today – not in the world, but also in Sweden. I believe that no country in the world, not even Sweden, lives up to the Convention on Human Rights. We don't have an equal society today. Women and men do not have equal opportunities. Those born with a disability do not have equal opportunities to live a good and dignified life. Children do not have the same rights, but parental rights go far beyond the children's own rights. We are now working hard in the government to correct these things, including through the LSS and by fixing the breaks in the welfare. Because, as many here have said, economic equality is needed to live a dignified life. I am new to the committee, but I have had time to meet some groups and people, and I myself have some life experience with me. Among other things, I have met representatives of the deaf-blind, who have raised their voices when it comes to the fact that they too have been affected by various judgments so that they do not have the right to an interpreter. You can think about how to communicate. How close are you to your home if you can't talk, hear or see? We must correct this. I sat throughout the last parliamentary term here in Parliament and worked on other issues. In the spring of 2015, my mother suddenly had severe neurological symptoms. She couldn't walk properly. It came out of nowhere, and we didn't know what it was. She lived in Linköping, and she was the person who has been extremely close to me all my life. We had contact every day whether I lived in Sweden, France, Africa or wherever I have lived in my life. This was the start of a journey in another world — a world that many may not have been exposed to. But this is a journey that everyone can get into. Most of them do, too, at some point, perhaps when their parents grow old. My mother had just retired, so she wasn't old. She was about to turn 67 when she got sick. Then it turned out, among other things, that she was not entitled to LSS because she was too old. You have to be under 65 years of age when the disease breaks out in order to be eligible for the LSS. So what do you do? Yeah, we had to help. I was myself up here in Stockholm with my daughter. My daughter goes to school here; my mother was in Linköping. I had to move her up to our apartment. I took care of her in my spare time, if I had one. We made sure it's all right. Mother could not be here all the time, but she was also allowed to be down in Linköping where she had her friends who moved in and helped. The home service came in, but the home service could not do much. My mom fell. Things happened all the time around my mother. You didn't know what happened to her. Eventually they said it was some kind of ALS. In the autumn of 2017, my mother is getting worse very quickly. The city calls me back when I'm in government negotiations on arms exports, saying she has to move to retirement homes. LSS doesn't exist for her and still wouldn't have been enough. Her last months we have to spend moving out of her apartment and arranging it, instead of spending time with my mother, who we knew would probably die. On October 1, 2017, I was lying next to her in bed when she died. I don't wish for this. This is where it has to work! There must be some interaction here! The municipality should not demand that someone 67 years of age, who is clear in the head and who will soon die, move into a retirement home. Care must be able to function here. The nursing home also had no knowledge of these patients. You're being flown back and forth. What I want to spend my time on is finding these holes, these rifts, in social security. There's a lot of rifts. You can end up outside the social security system, and then you are not entitled to sickness benefit if you become disabled but only basic level for the rest of your life. This can apply if you have not had a job, for example if you are a student. There's a lot of trouble to deal with. Nor can these people wait three years, five years, six years or ten years for an investigation. Then maybe life is over. This needs to be fixed right here and now. Having said that, I am pleased that the government, together with the Liberals and Centers, is working hard to fix the breaks in welfare and that we are making sure to fix the LSS. Breathing and probing were a part; much remains to be done. With those words, which became a little personal, I am in favour of the committee's proposal except in paragraph 14 on car support, where I am in favour of our reservation.
i-Tnfcv8kMKm8p31poxBqSoF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pernilla Stålhammar, for your speech. After all, it was the S-MP government in the last parliamentary term that was the driving force behind the deterioration that we are seeing today for a great many people with disabilities, through a directive to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to cut the cost of assistance. The Social Insurance Agency must, of course, implement the directive, and then they began to look at older judgments and interpret them much more restrictively than they used to. A great many people testify that their condition is completely unchanged, but that the assessment is different with reference to laws that have not previously been mentioned in their decisions. Pernilla Stålhammar says that the breaks in LSS must be fixed. There's a lot of rifts right now. My first question to Pernilla Stålhammar will then be what measures she will take to ensure that this first change of law on breathing and probe feeding will have a real effect. The impact statement in the memorandum does not say that a single person with a need for probe feeding will be covered by the new amendment to the law, as reference is made to the 2018 judgment. This should be assessed in this way, and it has already been interpreted by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to mean that it is only the provision and imposition of the probe that counts as basic needs. So what measures will Pernilla Stålhammar take to ensure that probe feeding is actually covered by the new legislative amendment?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-190	Madam President, I would like We have the same ambitions with this work. We want to do it so that it will be good for all people who are in need of breathing, probe feeding and LSS and who are otherwise disabled. We are now making this decision. The proposal will be presented. We will ensure that those who have the right to breathing and probe feeding will also receive it. That is something that we will have to follow very carefully so that they do not slip outside. It was extremely unfortunate that these judges came into being and that they have been interpreted so narrowly by Försäkringskassan.
i-M1X1AtFX2ZjpqL9RZhuxJn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pernilla Stålhammar, for your answer. The unfortunate thing is that the government gave directives to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to reduce costs. That is what has forced this interpretation of judgments. We all have high ambitions, and that's great. However, it must also be converted into concrete measures, into concrete changes to the legislative text which mean that this margin of interpretation does not exist. A big part of the fact that many people are now falling out of the system is that it is only the privacy-sensitive, private part that should be counted as the basic need. It becomes absurd if it is only the underwear and clothes closest to the body that are basic needs while the other clothes do not count. A person with certain mental disabilities may physically be able to brush his teeth and care for his own hygiene, but the time it takes to motivate the person to enter the bathroom or shower is not considered a basic need today. Yet that time may be necessary for hygiene to be managed. I wonder whether Pernilla Stålhammar has the ambition and will work to restore this great tear too, that is to say that all the basic needs as a whole must be the basis for the number of hours of assistance granted.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-195	Madam President, I would like Absolutely, Pia Steensland! There is a lot that works in drainpipes and in small details, and that should not be the case. It's not worthy. I'll do everything. The Green Party does not want to see any deterioration in the LSS or people getting caught up in this. It's really important. Now I am very new to this work, I have to say one more time. I have not devoted myself to social issues, but to foreign policy all my life. But what we wanted to get at when the directives were presented were those who cheated, and that has to be done differently. It is not a question of reducing aid to those who really need it, it is a question of eliminating fraud. Nothing else has been said by the Green Party, as far as I know. There we stand firmly and safely. You should have the right to have a worthy assistance. We'll work hard for that.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-197	Madam President, I would like Promoting equality in living conditions and full participation in social life. G rounded on respect for the individual's self-determination and integrity. The individual shall be given... influence and co-determination over the actions given. The quality of operations must be systematically and continuously developed and ensured. ..................................................... I think you recognize these sentences, because they come from the 1994 LSS legislation. Then why am I reading them? Well, because sometimes I think it's pretty good to go back to basics, so to speak, so go back to the intentions of the legislation. The purpose of the LSS was for people to live an independent life. For me as a moderate, of course, I protect freedom and independence very highly. Indeed, 1 January 1994 was a day of freedom for all those with functional variations and for those close to them. It was the day the care law was replaced with LSS. More were supported and serviced with LSS. The new effort of personal assistance became a symbol of freedom that made study, work and other employment possible. This is a law of rights that has made a big difference. Madam President, I would like The LSS reform is an important reform of freedom to be protected. But in recent years we have seen a number of examples of how children and adults with extensive and permanent disabilities who cannot breathe or eat themselves have lost assistance hours or been denied assistance. Today there are many close relatives who struggle every day not to perish and people who feel very bad because they are worried about getting rid of their assistance. Thanks to the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget adopted by the Riksdag in December 2018, we have finally made a step forward in terms of breathing and probe feeding. As we are hearing here today, there is also a great deal of agreement on this issue. In the M-KD budget, SEK 350 million more than the government did in its budget was allocated to a legislative change. After 2019, there are 700 million each year. This year there has been a memorandum from the government. It came just over three weeks ago, and we will have reason to discuss it in this House. The LSS investigation, which is currently being referred and which was presented in January, will also be discussed in this House. However, it is an investigation that we Moderates believe raises more questions than answers at present, but we will come back to that. Madam President, I would like Today, we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Social Affairs, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and we are discussing over 60 requests. There is a great deal of commitment to these issues. We see this in this House, and that is a good thing. I would like to say a few words about the car support. We are a majority in favour of the announcement that the government should urgently prepare the follow-up to the reformed car support and then come back with proposals on how to make car support more effective. Here, too, I have understood that perhaps there may be a consensus in the future, which is to be welcomed. Thus, a moderate motion is partly approved. In order for a person to be granted car support today, the person must be able to drive the car himself. Many people with disabilities today live an active life but may not be able to drive the car themselves. I'm looking forward to looking into this. Today, these people are often offered travel services, which probably means increased costs for society as a whole – it is important to look at social costs – and also a risk that it counteracts the disability-olithic goals of participation. In addition to the car support, we Moderates agree that interpreting services for people with hearing loss and language disorder should be investigated. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to express my gratitude to all the organisations and people with whom I have been in contact and with whom you have all been in contact in this House in recent months and years. Only last Monday, I visited Gunnel, who has personal assistance. She shared her daily life very generously, and it provided knowledge that is invaluable. It is people like Gunnel and organisations working on these issues that help us in the Riksdag to push forward the issues of the LSS reform.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-209	Mr President, I would like to This morning, like so many other mornings, the alarm bell rang by millions of Swedes to go to work or to their company. All their efforts build Sweden strong, and they should be able to expect that when they are involved and contribute by paying taxes, the police, health care and school will work. That is not the case today. Moreover, their efforts need to be appreciated more. That is why the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the budget that won the Riksdag and that the Prime Minister now governs included tax cuts for all Sweden's employees. I'm very proud of that tax cut. My question to the Prime Minister is simple: Will the Prime Minister continue to lower the tax for all Sweden's employees, all those who build Sweden strongly, over the years to come?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-212	Mr President, I would like to As was said, it is those who go to work every day that ensure that we can build well-being, and to well-being, taxes are needed. In the Swedish model, we collect taxes together and benefits based on different needs. As was pointed out, we have a budget that we govern, and this budget is to be implemented. What we will then do with budgets in the future will have to take from budget to budget. What we agree on in the January agreement is that we should have a proper review of the tax system and try to achieve a new tax reform. The agreement states, among other things, that we will reduce the economic gap in our country, and then we will work on it. Let us have a broad discussion on what the tax reform before us should look like and ensure that we can both afford the welfare we need and get a better distribution policy.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-216	Mr President, I would like to That was not really the answer to the question I asked. The January agreement contains many good parts, including that the military tax should be removed, and here the Prime Minister is clear. But I am stunned by the fact that the Prime Minister can never imagine lowering the tax for an industrial worker, a banker, a principal or a assistant nurse. Can we not also reduce the tax on employees during this term of office?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-218	Mr President, I would like to We have a tax reform ahead of us. I believe that it is smart to look at the overall picture and how a tax reform is to be designed, and this includes reducing the economic gaps. In addition, we have a tax shift of 15 billion ahead of us where we are going to increase the tax on emissions and reduce the tax on labour and entrepreneurship. Exactly how this is going to work out will be discussed. However, I can see that Elisabeth Svantesson has been involved in raising the tax rate for a lot of wage earners just because they are in a trade union. That's the wrong way to go.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-221	Mr President, I would like to When the reports of the terror cult IS abuse of humanity began to fall in and we were reached by images of crucified children, living people in cages that were burned up and women who were sold in slave markets turned almost all Swedes regardless of religion away in disgust. However, a number of hundred Swedish citizens were attracted by what they saw and went down to support IS in these abuses of humanity and genocide. Now a number of hundreds of these want to come back because it has been shown that the caliphate they dreamed of was not viable. We could have stopped some of these if we had already taken a decision in the last parliamentary term to withdraw the citizenship of those who have dual citizenship. The Swedish Democrats suggested this on a number of occasions, but the Prime Minister and the then government were not prepared to support the Swedish Democrats in this. Now these people are coming home, and many of them will not be punished at all. They come back to our society as full citizens with full access to Swedish welfare. With all due respect, is the Prime Minister prepared to admit that it was a mistake not to support the Swedish Democrats' proposal to make it possible to withdraw the citizenship of IS terrorists with dual citizenship?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-226	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Karlsson started the post just as we all know when it comes to these and other terrible and completely unimaginable abuses. The fact that people go there and participate in this is in itself unimaginable, but the most important thing now that we have heard of these unimaginable atrocities is that these people are being called to account in some way. A proposal that Sweden has taken up together with other countries is a tribunal. We believe that this is an exceptional occurrence of an exceptionally cruel terrorist cult. This has attracted some interest, and now we are going to work further so that these people are convicted of the crimes committed. I do not think, therefore, that it should be assumed that they will go free, but that they should be convicted. On the initiative of Sweden, evidence has already begun, and evidence collection is now taking place to hold these people to account. Should a person in Sweden have been involved in committing crimes, the Swedish court has quite far-reaching opportunity to convict also for crimes committed in other countries, and then we will make sure to do so. The focus should be to get them convicted, and it can be done on site or in the region. It can also be done in other ways, and you can be judged here in Sweden. And one can directly question whether the parents who have involved their children in this misery are fit as parents at all.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-233	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the Prime Minister's intention to prosecute and punish anyone who has participated in crime. The idea of a tribunal is worth looking at, and I support the Government's ambition in this regard. However, it is a fact that a number of hundred people have already come back here, and they pose a threat to the security of Swedish citizens. We saw what happened on Drottninggatan because we weren't watching IS sympathizers. In order to avoid this in the future, is the Prime Minister prepared to look at the possibility of withdrawing the nationality of dual-citizens engaged in activities such as those of the IS terrorists? There will almost certainly be similar situations in the future. Is there any scenario where the Prime Minister is prepared to withdraw the citizenship of people who go and support organizations that declare war on Sweden?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-237	Mr President, I would like to That is one of the issues that has proven to have come up. However, when you do this, just as Mattias Karlsson says, it is only for those who have dual citizenship. This means that it does not solve the problem. It certainly does not solve the problem here and now, but it will take a number of years before that legislation is in place. Here and now, I believe that the priority is to have those convicted who have done this. No matter where you're convicted, you should be judged. During the last parliamentary term, we have contributed and are now continuing to add, including through two broad agreements, more resources to the Security Service, the police and other authorities. We have gradually strengthened the legislation to allow more people to be judged. Now the law that also links with terrorist organisations will soon come criminally. Gradually, we are tightening up the penalties. Now we also see that the judges are starting to come. One came just a short while ago. That's how we're gonna keep going.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-240	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven has repeatedly expressed his disappointment at Brexit. He has said that it is a divorce that he deeply regrets. At the same time, Stefan Löfven, also repeatedly, has marked against populism and talked about the spread of false news as something that shakes democracy in its foundations. Both of these things are, of course, excellent, but they ring falsely in the light of the remarkable campaign launched by LO and leading social democrats in the run-up to the European elections. The Prime Minister's picture of populism and the danger of Brexit does not seem to be shared by either LO or the Social Democrats' middle names on the ballot in the May elections. They have, in fact, made the slogan of the Brexit campaign, and made it their own: In an election film, a dark picture is painted of the fact that power over everyday life has disappeared to Brussels. It is also claimed that the Center Party will use every opportunity to push back Swedish workers' wages and working conditions – completely without any evidence. This is pure left-wing populism, packaged with a message that was used to put Britain in the very difficult situation it is in right now. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Is Stefan Löfven behind the message from the Brexit campaign that LO and leading social democrats are spreading, and does Stefan Löfven believe that the Center Party wants to exploit every opportunity to push back Swedish workers' wages and working conditions?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-245	Mr President, I would like to What LO is campaigning for Brexit stands for LO. I have nothing to do with it at all. We in the Socialist Party want to run an EU campaign that focuses on the most important issues that the European Union is going to deal with. These are security issues, but they are also labour market issues. There is a balance to be struck, in my view. We have a common labour market, and we should be happy about that. It gives us strength. However, the labour market rules must be characterised by fair and fair conditions for employees – even when going from one country to another to work. We pushed the issue of posting directives. The Posting of Workers Directive that existed gave Swedish courts the opportunity to judge so that we got a rule that said that Swedish trade unions could not fight for their collective agreements. When we wanted to change it, there was not so much lineup on the other edge, if I may say so, but it was said that it would not be possible and that we would not be able to do it. We wouldn't push that question. Now we did it anyway – and we received support to amend the Posting of Workers Directive. My question to Annie Lööf is whether she thinks it's a good way to stand up for fair wages and fair terms– I mean it is, and that's why we pushed it – and if the Center supports that line. If you do not do so, then you are guilty of providing a labour market that makes it free for capital to move but which puts employees against employees. If we agree on these, I will speak on the Center Party's view of the labour market.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-249	Mr President, I would like to I'm behind freedom of movement. I support the Swedish model being Swedish. That is why the Center Party is opposed, for example, to the social pillar, which moves power from the Swedish model to the EU and Brussels. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answer, but now it is actually the case that LO's campaign film highlights the second name on the Social Democrats' own list. It is therefore one of the prime minister's own top names in the upcoming election movement that goes to elections in this way. In addition, LO's main message is to take back control! This is a direct copy of the Brexit campaign's Take back control. The currents that in the UK have led to a decision that the Prime Minister himself regrets are now using his own party and his own top name to campaign in Sweden. For this, of course, the party leader of the Social Democrats has a responsibility, but so does the Prime Minister. Now the Prime Minister cannot see any problem in bringing forward two completely diametrical views, so I ask again: Is the Prime Minister behind this message?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-253	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats are campaigning to ensure that Europe focuses on what is most important for Europe to focus on, and that is basically a positive message. We believe in Europe, we stand up for Europe and we want Europe to develop. On the other hand, we are not in favour of moving more decisions to the EU. That is why we think it is wrong to say that the social pillar moves power from Sweden to the EU. It doesn't. But only that reaction and view of the social pillar expressed by Annie Lööf make me concerned. If we are to have a market that is common to capital and companies and others but where employees' rights will be threatened when employees are put against employees, then we will have a problem. One way to ensure that power lies where it should be is that Swedish trade unions can now fight for their collective agreements, wages and conditions. That's good. That is the path we are going to take with the European Union.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-256	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! This week, LO strongly criticised the government's health insurance policy. The reason for this is that the refusal of sickness benefit applications has been almost sixfold since 2014. This is a very dramatic increase. It is difficult to receive sickness benefit in Sweden today. We have the OECD's hardest rules for that. Many people are affected by this. SVT reported, for example, about 26-year-old Martin, who is disabled. He lives in a care home with 24-hour staff to help him. He needs a coach to be on the job market. Thanks to that, he's had a job and he's been paid an activity allowance for it. Now the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has withdrawn it, which means that Martin is referred to the municipality's social welfare office. The same applies to Sture Eklund from Norrbotten, who has fought against Försäkringskassan and got right. He has received a judgment that he should receive sickness benefit, but Försäkringskassan still does not pay sickness benefit to Sture.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-261	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for raising the question, because this is an important part of Swedish welfare. Health insurance should work by providing financial security to those who need it when they are unable to work but also stimulating a return to work as quickly as possible – in a dignified way. For this reason, at the moment, when we have seen a number of judgments and decisions by the Authority, an investigation is under way to see what review and what possible changes need to be made to the regulatory framework so that health insurance benefits in the way that we want it to benefit from. We want low sickness rates, but of course we also want humanity and dignity in the treatment of people. The concept of normal work should be reviewed. What is it really, and are there other concepts that need to be changed so that we can have a good remuneration when people need it without us having a dramatic increase in costs? We don't want people to be sick.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-265	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. It is also the case that the Government has ordered the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to make restrictive assessments in order to achieve a certain number of days that you must not exceed when it comes to sick days. Can the Prime Minister promise to remove the order to the Social Insurance Office to hold down these days? That's what makes it so many rejections.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-268	Mr President, I would like to I don't know what order Nooshi Dadgostar is talking about. A government may not interfere in any decision of authority. The individual decisions on who receives and does not receive compensation are taken by the Authority. It is legally forbidden for a government to interfere in this. The review that is being carried out, as I said, aims to see whether the regulatory framework needs to be changed. We still want low sickness rates; no one feels good about going sick for a long time. But it should of course be dignified, and the compensation should be good when you need it.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-270	Mr President, I would like to In 2012, the Alliance Government introduced the right to deduct donations to non-profit organisations. It was we Christian Democrats who pushed forward the reform, and it was going to be a great success. Donation increased. At a modest cost to the Treasury, organisations such as the Red Cross, Save the Children and Erikshjälpen were able to help more people in vulnerable situations, both here in Sweden and abroad. So many who were 10 Swedish took advantage of the deduction. Plan Sweden and Stockholm Stadsmission have told us that they got as much as SEK 15 million more every year to invest in life-changing efforts for our fellow human beings. More children in the Third World were given the opportunity to attend school. More homeless people could get a warm bed to sleep in, a meal, and a moment's association. Sweden was the second-last country in Europe to introduce the right to deduct gifts. The Social Democrats have always been against it. It was therefore tragic, but unfortunately not at all unexpected, that as soon as you had the chance during the last parliamentary term, you ensured that Sweden became the first country in Europe to abolish the right to deduct. Thanks to the budget reservation of the Christian Democrats and Moderates, the tax deduction for gifts will now be reintroduced. The deduction will enable thousands of children to go to school and for research to thrive. Fewer will need to fall asleep hungry and alone. Not bad for a napkin sketch! This is a good thing, but it is not possible to trust the Social Democrats on this issue. Those organisations that are struggling to make the world a little better need clear answers and long-term rules of play. So to my specific question: can the Prime Minister, here and now, make a promise that the gift deduction will remain this time?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-276	Mr President, I would like to Again – each time a budget is to be made, one has to decide which taxes are to be included, which may be increased and which ones are to be reduced. You don't stand at Question Time and answer exactly how taxes are to be designed. But I can say this: as a principle, one can think about what logic it is to first reduce taxes as much as it ever can, so that we have less opportunity to help build up schools, health care and care for the elderly in a better way, and then introduce a tax deduction for people to pay out of their wallets. Would that be a success? I don't think so. We shall have a welfare in Sweden and pay taxes so that we can manage it and develop it. This should not stand and fall with whether people want to open the wallet in individual cases. People do anyway, thank God. The increase that we have seen for a long time, even before the beginning of the deduction, is good– people want to help. But the foundation of our welfare society must of course be paid through the taxes and other income received by the state, municipalities and county councils. Then they will be distributed so that we know that we have sufficient care. This is true here at home but also out in the world. Sweden is one of the countries that provides the most in aid and development. I think this is a better way. It is more stable, and that is solidarity. That's how we're gonna keep going.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-281	Mr President, I would like to Here is a clear dividing line between the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats. We believe that solidarity and humanity cannot be fine, right and proper only if it is done through the tax bill. It must also be good, and encouraged by society, that it also happens between people. I wonder if the Prime Minister believes that the basic welfare in Sweden is threatened because of a gift deduction. Can you not do both, have a basic welfare from the state and a gift deduction? No social democratic government in the EU except the Swedish government has reduced or removed deductible gifts. In Denmark the amount was now raised to almost 20 000. In Norway, the maximum amount is 40,000. Of 28 EU Member States, only Sweden and Slovakia currently do not have this option in full. Is it reasonable to introduce a gift deduction and then remove it next year?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-285	Mr President, I would like to It is not the case that the welfare society stands and falls with this. The main principle is that a solidarity-based welfare society should be built with taxes and income received by the state and municipalities. Money is given anyway. I donate money every month. I do so with joy and pride, because I realize that it is good for all the organisations that do such a fine job around Sweden and the world. But I'm not sitting around thinking that I think Ebba Busch Thor should be involved in paying. I'll do it myself. I think that's right. It is not that the gifts disappear unless you have a deduction. What the deduction will be in the future will be a future discussion, but my principle is that we should build a solidarity-based welfare society not on the willingness of individuals to contribute but on solidarity in society.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-289	Mr President, I would like to European cooperation has brought peace to our continent, stable democracies and the highest standard of living that people have ever experienced. However, European cooperation is facing a huge choice in the coming years. The path may depend on the experience of a number of recent crises, where EU cooperation has not really been able to solve the problems: the financial crisis, the terrorist threat and the migration crisis. There are now two approaches in Europe. One is that we need to cooperate more within the European Union and that the European Union needs more muscle to solve this type of crisis in the future. The second approach is that we should roll back and cooperate less. This discussion is taking place throughout Europe at the moment. The large countries – Germany and France – and a number of countries are pushing for greater cooperation, and there is a very interesting debate on how to do it. There are a few countries that put themselves on the hangovers: Poland and Hungary, but unfortunately also Sweden. Sweden does not participate in this in-depth discussion. The risk is that if you do not participate when other countries cooperate more and more, you will be left out of it all the time. I know, Stefan Löfven, we're on the same side. I suppose we had joint press conferences at one time in connection with the EMU vote. I know deep down that there is a friend of Europe living in Stefan Lövven's heart. But why, Stefan Löfven, does Sweden slow down this discussion? Why are we on the same side as those who do not want to deepen EU cooperation?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-293	Mr President, I would like to This cooperation needs to be clarified a little bit. We are involved in the discussion on how to strengthen cooperation to combat terrorism and organised crime, how to strengthen our defence and how to bring about more research, innovation and climate change. We have been saying this all along. We want Europe to do more and do more together. Then the question is sometimes how much the EU institutions and each Member State should decide. It's another discussion. We are not so convinced that decision-making rights should automatically be transferred to the EU. This can be done on certain issues, as has happened. It is in the Treaty, so we know what decisions are being taken. There is no doubt that we want this cooperation. We see the EU as a huge opportunity for Sweden. Anyone who has been against the European Union and some who, not long ago, even thought that we should leave the European Union must now understand that this cooperation is actually A and O for Sweden's prosperity and future. However, Europe is not doing everything right. We must also say that we do not automatically have to have new EU agencies if we want to strengthen security in Europe. I therefore welcome this discussion and we are taking part in it. I welcome Mr Macron's discussion, although I do not always share his view that, when we strengthen cooperation for greater security, it must mean that we have a European agency to do it. That's the part, how it's going to work, remains to be seen. However, for Europe to work more together for our security and success, for innovation and exports and, of course, to cope with the climate, we fully agree. However, this does not automatically mean that more decision-making power should be transferred to Brussels.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-298	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister acts as some kind of neutral commentator. He welcomes discussions, he says. But say something in the discussion yourself! Sweden has an opinion on this. The Prime Minister says that we should not automatically transfer power to Brussels. No, it's not a s if have claimed that it would be done automatically. If we are to solve the climate problems, we need more decision-making power in Europe. If we are to combat terrorism, we need more decisive power in Europe. Sweden now says no to participating in the financial pact, the financial regulation which is an experience with the financial crisis. Sweden says no to participating in the Banking Union in order to stabilise the banking system in Europe. Sweden is outside the euro area. Sweden has said no to the prosecution to combat corruption and terrorism. Sweden says no to a common carbon tax in Europe, and Sweden says no to the defence cooperation proposed by President Macron. We can say that we welcome discussions. But we say no in the discussions! Sweden says no, no, no. We take part in discussions and say no. The only problem is that these partnerships will now be built up and become a reality. Me and the Liberals want Sweden to be on the field and play in the game, not move further and further up in the gallery and eat hot dogs.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-303	Mr President, I would like to I like hot dogs.
i-fcbb0b6730a69b90-0	I knew it. )
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-304	... but we don't eat that in this context, Björklund. It's a wrong picture. In fact, Sweden is leading the climate debate in the EU. We're just ahead. It is we who talk about what we need to do within the framework of cooperation in order for the whole world to meet the goal that is set. We are in the lead in that discussion. We are fully involved in the discussion on defence cooperation. On the other hand, we are very vigilant that the cooperation between defence and defence industries must not mean that defence industries only exist in France, Germany and some other large countries, but also in Sweden. That is why, of course, we are being careful in this discussion. As far as the Banking Union is concerned, an investigation is under way. Björklund knows that. We don't know how it ends. Feel free to go on the offensive, Björklund, but we must keep a little more to the facts.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-309	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps the climate crisis is mankind's most difficult challenge. A great deal of effort will be required from all parts of society. Investing in sustainable travel is crucial. We need more passenger and freight traffic on trains. As Uppsalabo, I see clearly that the railway is something of a lifeblood for Uppsala. It is about communication to Stockholm, the rest of Sweden and out into Europe. I am therefore extremely pleased with the announcement last term of office about four tracks and better connection between Uppsala and Stockholm. But the climate issue is global. We also need to review the opportunities for sustainable travel in a broader perspective. I would like to ask: what is the Prime Minister's view of the possibility of sustainable travel in Europe?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-312	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the more important issues. How do we ensure that we achieve the climate targets we have set ourselves? We have to do that. There, passenger travel and freight transport are crucial. We need to move as much as we can from road to rail, but the roads will remain financial, and we need truck transport in the future. Then it must be much cleaner cars. We are now making a huge investment and investment in rail. We do so both in the form of new investments and in the form of maintenance. That is how we shall continue, for this is what gives us the opportunity. The three new high-speed baselines we have been talking about will link Sweden with the rest of Europe and give us even better opportunities. That is why we also want to review the possibility of simplifying the ticketing system, so that it will be easier to take the train down to the continent if it fits. So there is a lot to do here. That work is under way, and we intend to continue to do so. We'll live up to the climate targets.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-316	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! The issue of climate-smart, sustainable consumption is involved. Last week I met students at Rosendal Upper Secondary School in Uppsala. They thought that we adults need to take greater climate responsibility now. In fact, public sector consumption is responsible for 40% of CO2 emissions from consumption in Sweden. The largest sector that delivers to the public sector is the construction industry. The Agenda 2030 delegation signed the DN Debate on Monday that there are too few demands in the procurement process. Then I have a question for the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister think that we can get more climate results by addressing public procurement and especially the construction industry more clearly?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-319	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I definitely think we can. I am pleased that we made sure that a procurement authority was set up. It is not only about climate targets but also about other aspects of procurement where we can do much better. But the environmental and climate perspective is important, which is why the Procurement Authority has this task. There is support for procurement, not least in the case of works. It is one of the three priority areas on which the Agency is working. In addition, it has been given a special mandate to also work for a more environmentally friendly transport sector, which is a different environmental villain. That work is ongoing. It has to go on. It is a way of implementing and ensuring that the environmental objectives we have can actually be achieved.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-322	Mr President, I would like to Around Sweden there is evidence of an untenable situation for the young adults who have been allowed to stay here as a result of the High School Act, which the red-greens pushed through. They suffer from homelessness and are exploited by criminal gangs. The Social Democrats' own councillors warn that the government has not thought about the consequences. Unfortunately, this is just another example of a failed integration policy. It must be over now! We Moderates are prepared to be involved in taking responsibility for a tight and sustainable migration policy, but then a number of issues need to be raised. It is about family immigration, the upgrading of citizenship, the qualification of welfare and the effective return. The message that has so far come from the government is that it is only prepared to look at a few issues that only aim to make migration policy more generous. It's not taking responsibility. Why is the government not prepared to accept the broader responsibility?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-325	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that's exactly what we are. First of all, during the last parliamentary term, we have made sure to change the rules so that there were far fewer applicants for asylum in Sweden than it was with the old rules at the beginning of the parliamentary term. It is important that we ensure that we maintain a level that allows all the countries of the European Union to actually assume their responsibilities. Sweden cannot take that responsibility alone. Now there is a debate on the seven directives that are to regulate at European level that we have a reasonably coherent migration policy. It will be good for Sweden. It will serve Sweden. That is why we will ensure that we are involved in this work. We will seek the widest possible participation in order for it to be good. Then there is the integration work. There we now have an agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals. We have been very clear about how to strengthen integration work, ranging from schools to opportunities to get into work as well as social orientation and more. Respect for the values of the EU Treaty by Romanian Social Democrats
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-329	Mr President, I would like to In 2016, Romania's Social Democrats began to push through legislative proposals that in practice legalise corruption and give the government the right to fire judges. The reform is probably related to the fact that the Presidents of the Social Democrats are personally suspected of huge fraud against the EU budget. He has also been sentenced to one year in jail for electoral fraud in 2015 and another three and a half years in prison in another corruption case last year. After this, the head of the special corruption prosecutor in the country was fired. When documents about the hag leaked out, the Social Democrats responded by threatening journalists who write about the case with a couple of hundred million SEK in fines under the EU's Data Protection Regulation. Last week the Social Democrats tried to ban opposition parties from participating in the EP elections. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister why he believes that his Romanian party colleagues are still in line with Article 2 of the Treaty and the values of the Union.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-332	Mr President, I would like to No, I'll be very clear about that. We do not accept any corruption whatsoever, not even anything close to it. I cannot take responsibility for what happens in another country, what those rules look like and how they are followed. But the principle is very clear with regard to that particular party. We are not going to put any fingers in the middle and be careful in any part just because it happens to be a party that has the same name as ours. Corruption and everything that has to do with it must be combated. That is why we stand up for the work that the Commission is doing in those countries where there are problems with this. For all countries must live up to our fundamental values, regardless of which government is in the country. There is no doubt whatsoever about where we stand when it comes to corruption.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-333	Mr President, I would like to On 11 February, Prime Minister India met with the Minister for Defence. The Swedish Minister for Defence then signed a security agreement between our countries. It was also planned for the sale of over 100 JAS aircraft to India. And Sweden has previously sold arms both to India and Pakistan. Moreover, these countries are two out of eight nuclear states in the world. In 2018, both were on the top-5 list of countries to which Sweden exported the most arms. Some time ago, the long-standing conflict between India and Pakistan over the Kashmir area flared up. Battleplanes on both sides were shot down, probably with the help of the Swedish weapon system Erieye, which was sold to Pakistan. My question is whether the Prime Minister believes that there is a risk of nuclear war and how the Prime Minister sees us exporting weapons to two nuclear powers that are in conflict with each other.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-336	Mr President, I would like to As far as arms exports are concerned, we have just adopted a new regulatory framework for how this is to be done – in broad agreement. That regulatory framework must be respected. I do not know what the consequences are for individual business. I can't stand to say that. We have an important and good cooperation with India. The conflict that we have now had to follow is serious in itself. There's no doubt about it. As I understand it, the degree of seriousness in this has been reduced, and dialogue is being conducted. We must, of course, assume that it ends in such a way. What I think about nuclear weapons is no secret. I believe that we must make sure that we begin to dismantle the world in general. This also applies, of course, to nuclear weapons.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-340	Mr President, I would like to This week my municipality of residence was in the spotlight of the national media. The reason could have been nicer. A female teacher at a school in the municipality would collect the pupils' cell phones. A student gets provoked and calls her a whore. A male teacher hears what happens and escorts the boy out of the classroom. Then 15-year-old N and his parents report the male teacher for harassment. The number of students who report teachers has increased significantly in recent years. This puts us at risk of having teachers who are both scared and insecure, which makes it difficult to maintain order and a good teaching environment. This development is, of course, a national matter. I therefore wonder: how serious is the Prime Minister's view of development, and what steps does the Prime Minister want to take to strengthen the teachers in their mission and to restore order to school?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-343	Mr President, I would like to One of the main elements of school policy must be order and study. That is the basic condition. This is particularly important for those children who need more support and who may find it more difficult to absorb knowledge. So that is the basis. That is why I and the government have said that we want to reverse the order in relation to mobile bans. One should assume that the phones are not on, but teachers or principals can decide that it is okay for teaching purposes if they think so. Then there is the matter of harassment and the teacher who was registered. No, I mean that teachers should have the rules and support of society that they need to maintain order and study. I do not know the rules in detail, but I fully agree with the responsible Minister, Anna Ekström, that it is important for us that we show this. If there is a need to change the rules in some part, we must do so. I don't know exactly what that would be, but the teachers should have our support for maintaining studies. Otherwise, the students won't learn anything.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-346	Mr President, I would like to In a new measurement of the World Bank, Sweden is ranked as one of six countries to be inspired by when it comes to gender equality in the labour market. At the same time, we know we have a long way to go. In the revolution that began a year ago under the name of Metoo, hundreds of thousands of women witnessed sexual abuse and harassment, often carried out in the workplace. In Sweden, the revolution took unique forms through professional and sectoral uprisings, which showed women's vulnerability to the labour market and a particular vulnerability to women working under precarious forms of employment.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-349	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important issue. I am proud to lead one of the world's first feminist governments. Sweden is often cited as an example in this area. But it's just as it says here: we have a long way to go. Not least, the Metoo uprising shows that there is far too much going on. The amount we got reports of, I think, shook quite a few. We already have a long-term strategy on men's violence against women. Of course, it also includes sexual harassment and what happens to women. As far as workplaces are concerned, I believe that the work of the parties and the cooperation of the parties against sexual harassment are absolutely crucial. There you can also have support from health and safety laws, health and safety agreements, inspections and whatever it may be. But in addition, we need a lot more. There is a need for a debate in society on how seventeen of us treat each other, especially how men behave against women. There are a number of things going on, and this should continue.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-352	Mr President, I would like to Last Tuesday the Swedish National Agency for Education wrote that teacher qualifications are reduced in the country's primary schools. It does so from already very low levels. The lack of teachers is a major problem, and the supply of skills needs to be taken seriously. The battle for teachers strikes economically against the country's municipalities and independent principals when they have quickly pushed up teacher wages and staff costs. As teachers and politicians, I see school leaders offering each other salaries in the battle of qualified teachers. It risks impairing the equivalence of our schools.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-355	Mr President, I would like to We had to start the last period by making sure to increase the number of places in teacher training as well as in nursing training. It had been trained far too few for a long time, and then there will be a deficit. There are a few things that need to be done. It is about more training places and an even better education, so that quality is raised and that it becomes more attractive to become a teacher. But it is also about those who have an academic degree but not an educational degree getting such a degree as quickly as possible. We are already seeing that engineers in schools are coming out who are serving well. Then, of course, the resources of municipalities need to be increased. They have done so throughout the last parliamentary term. Unfortunately, we now had another budget which reduces the resources available to the municipalities, but we will have to correct that when we present our budget. In addition, the conditions for teachers must be improved. It is about their salaries – we have increased wages – and about the possibility of getting help from teachers' assistants, for example.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-359	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Boverket's latest report pointed to the need to build 93 000 dwellings per year in order to balance the housing market. At the same time, 55 000 dwellings were started in 2018. This will be related to the Government's migration policy, where 133,000 residence permits were granted in 2018. Thus, housing construction is significantly out of step with population growth in Sweden.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-361	Mr President, I would like to One is this: if you introduce investment aid, more will be built. It had been introduced by the former Social Democratic Government in the early 2000s, and it was removed by the subsequent bourgeois government. That's when the construction went down. We introduced it again – then increased the construction. Now the Swedish Democrats have been involved in approving a budget that wants to remove this particular investment aid. On the one hand, to stand and worry that we have a housing shortage – which we have, and that is serious – and on the other hand to approve and vote for a budget in which the support for building more rental apartments at reasonable rents for more people is voted out is very illogical, I am afraid. We will make sure to bring back the support, because we need to build much more housing. We now have a great opportunity in the country to build many homes for a long time. If we can come to an agreement in politics and with the industry and other actors, we will get a spin on the construction!
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-364	Mr President, I would like to In connection with the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution in Iran, the Swedish government courted the Iranian Embassy. The same Islamic revolution meant the introduction of sharia laws applied in Nasrin Sotoudeh's case. She is sentenced to 148 lashes and 38 years in prison only because she represented women who do not respect the Islamic government's sharia laws, such as forced veils and sexual apartheids. Nasrin Sotoudeh is a lawyer and human rights activist and represents women who have lived there for 40 years. My question to the Prime Minister is: will the government make a new visit or call the Iranian ambassador to give the government's view of Nasrin Sotoudeh's punishment and demand release of her and her fellow sisters?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-366	Mr President, I would like to Whether the ambassador will be called up or not determines the State Department. There is no doubt about where we stand in terms of human rights, regardless of which country we are talking about. We are trying to have dialogue and a relationship as good as possible with all countries, because that is the only way to reach a message in the end. But we never hesitate to bring forward the message to be put forward against the death penalty and, of course, for the rights of women and others. This message is constantly bringing forward in the best way we can think of, precisely to stand up for human rights, equality and equality, no matter who we meet and when we meet them. So there is no doubt: Whether you have a good relationship with a country or not, Sweden never hesitates to convey the message.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-370	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about what is being done to get everyone home from work. I'm practically a builder myself. My brothers, my father and his father before him operate in various ways in the construction industry as well as many of my closest friends, and we see a terrible development. The year has started with a couple of really dark months. Too many people, not least in the construction industry, have died at work.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-373	Mr President, I would like to Although, for a long period of time, we have reduced the number of deaths, one death is one too many. If what we have experienced at the beginning of the year lasts, unfortunately, we are now seeing an increase. We cannot accept anything but a zero vision in this area. Of course you should be able to come home from work. There are a few things that need to be put in place, and there we had to start over during the last parliamentary term. The research that the former bourgeois government had removed has been added again, because it is extremely important that we research in the field in order to learn as much as possible and implement as much knowledge as possible. We have contributed a lot of resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority so that we have about 100 inspectors in addition. But that also applies to other areas. How do we combat undeclared work so that people are not exploited in a completely black labour market? Unfortunately, there are no rules at all. It therefore wants a broad range of work, not least together with the parties, to stop the fatal accidents.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-377	Mr President, I would like to The counties north of Dalälven are needed for the whole of Sweden to function. It cannot be repeated enough in this House, and so at first sight the government's policy on the relocation of authorities from the big cities to the rest of the country looks rather appealing. However, the reality is different. One highly topical case is the kronofogdekontoret in Hudiksvall municipality in my county of Gävleborg, which is now closing down on unclear grounds. It is a well-functioning office and an important employer in Hälsingland. The government can do something about this, but unfortunately you are sitting with your arms crossed. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government's policy really means that it is only the Stockholm authorities that are to be relocated to the country, while it accepts that those who are already in place outside the big cities are being centralised. What does the Prime Minister have to say to all the employees and heelers who are at risk of losing their enforcement office in Hudiksvall?
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-380	Mr President, I would like to It is of course true that the whole country should not only live but also be able to grow and develop, and that is why we should have more agencies and service offices around Sweden. That is why it was so tragic that the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats went through with a dramatic reduction in resources for the Employment Service, which will also mean that the number of jobs around the country, even north of the Dalälven River, will disappear. Last Friday, a week or so ago, I had a meeting with the Secretary of State with a number of heads of government. I think there were eleven managers in place to discuss how we can help each other to ensure that the state presence is around the country and how we can coordinate different authorities. Service offices are such an example of government presence. There, several authorities can be part of a single office so that citizens can have access to services. There are other ways to do this, and of course our call to the authorities to consider whether it is possible to coordinate in any way so that the service remains before taking dramatic decisions.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-383	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! I have received a question from the website All voters. It is a collaboration with the magazine 8 pages, which is aimed at people who for various reasons need to get news in light Swedish. The question is posed by a guy named Javeedan. He's 24 years old and lives in Alingsås. Javeed writes: As we know, almost half of all car journeys in Sweden are shorter than 5 kilometres. Why does the government not say that those who drive so short should cycle or walk instead? If we reduce these journeys, we reduce half of the mortality and save a lot of fuel. It's good for the climate, and people who start to move instead of driving get better health. The government has a goal that Sweden will become the first fossil-free welfare country and cope with a green, sustainable transition. I therefore wonder how the Prime Minister views Mr Javeed's question.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-386	Mr President, I would like to How we change the climate so that we can look our children and grandchildren in the eye is a fundamental foundation of politics, and it is done in many different ways. We have a common climate framework with objectives on how to move forward in the different areas. I will not tell people, however, that they will make their way between point A and point B in a certain way. That's their choice. But if they choose the car, it should of course be a clean car, that is, a car that does not emit CO2 but is powered by electricity or something else. We have therefore introduced a bonus – the Malus system that makes it easier to choose a green option. In fact, I think that support for the electric bicycles has helped to increase the number of people taking the bike than the car over short distances. But you'll have to choose how to travel.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-390	Mr President, I would like to First, I would like to welcome the Prime Minister to join Parliament's car network – in view of the previous question. Mr President, I would like to There is a social contract between the state and the Swedish people. The public service contract includes that the State must guarantee the functioning of its core business. It is about that it should be possible to drive after our roads regardless of the weather. It's about getting treatment on time if you have a serious illness. It's about your kid getting a good schooling. It's about breaking and entering being cleared up by the police. It's about your parents getting a dignified care for the elderly. This government intends to introduce a free year, i.e. pay adult people to be free at the expense of others. It is a reform that can cost between 1 and 10 billion. Many would call it a pure siesta policy. There are many social problems in Sweden, but that adult people should be free at the expense of others to take courses in fly fishing is not reasonable.
i-d0103bd1800b3d88-395	Mr President, I would like to That is an incorrect description, and that is not what it is about. Free years should be an opportunity for people not to be free without being able to try something else in a year, maybe develop, maybe find another job. What do I know? That's the kind of business we're talking about. I believe that we need more conversion activities in the Swedish labour market. If you have the opportunity to change, I think that more people actually have the energy to work longer. That is the question to be examined. It is clear that it will not be easier to maintain all the things that Lars Beckman lists if you just concentrate on reducing taxes. Then it'll be difficult. There will be less money to move around with, and then there will be less money to the police, the school and so on. If you have this as a starting point, it will be difficult to explain to people that they will automatically get better service.
