i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-0	Madam President, I would like Honourable Members of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now debating the first review of government policy by the Climate Policy Council. It is a painful calculation of the policy pursued by the Council. Sweden will not reach the target of net zero emissions by 2045, nor will the transport sector target for 2030, which has been specifically examined in this important report. We now see that emissions in Sweden are even increasing. We in the Left Party therefore want the parliament and government to announce an emergency for the climate. By announcing an emergency for the climate, we show that we take the climate issue very seriously. We need to save our civilisation from dangerous and uncontrollable climate change. That issue must prevail over all other political decisions. I look forward to debating this with you, ladies and gentlemen!
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-5	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Left Party for initiating this important debate and highlighting climate policy in this House. It is difficult to imagine anything more important, because 100 metres from here are now school-shopping young people who are demanding that we in this House live up to our responsibility for the climate agreement in Paris. They say they have no reason to educate themselves when we do not give them a future. It's an eerie message, but it's still logical. With them, and in many other places, voices are raised that say that the earth's climate is in an emergency. I agree. We in the Green Party have said that for a long time. It was this insight that led us in the Green Party seven years ago to propose that Sweden should establish a climate policy framework with ambitious climate targets, a climate law and an independent council that examines the government's overall policy. Almost all parliamentary parties joined forces and contributed their own parts. This cooperation has given Sweden one of the strongest legislations in the world in the field of climate change. An important part of the framework is that each new government will present an action plan describing which climate policy will be implemented during its term of office. It is now being prepared within the government and will be reported this autumn. Of course, the Climate Policy Council's report is a key element. Madam President, I would like There are many important conclusions and recommendations in the Council report. I would like to mention three in particular. The first is that, despite everything that has been done, Sweden is far from fulfilling our part of the responsibility for the Paris Agreement. There can be no doubt that the need for action is great and urgent. The second point I would like to make is that we cannot sign the Paris Agreement with one hand and grant fossil subsidies with the other and continue with policies that lock us up in fossil dependence. All relevant policies and legislation must be adapted to climate change objectives. This leads to the third point that I would like to highlight: that all sectors and actors must be involved in the work. The responsibility lies with all of us. We all have to do what it takes. No one can anymore say that someone else should do the job, and no one can anymore sit in the gallery and comment or clap their hands or distance. We have to do this together. The determination and consensus that existed when the climate policy framework and ambitious objectives were adopted needs to be followed up with an equally broad consensus and synergy of action. Climate must not be an issue in which the planet is sacrificed for cheap political points. Madam President, I would like It is my intention that the climate plan being prepared should include important recommendations coming from the Climate Policy Council and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, but also from civil society, industry and other political parties. It is my ambition that the action plan should be the whole of Sweden's plan. I would therefore like to make a request to the House. If there is one issue in which we have to work together, that is the climate issue. We have shown that it is possible to agree earlier. Let us show that we can continue to do so. Yes, it is an emergency, and what is required in such situations is that we act and cooperate. I look forward to concrete input from all parties and hope that all parties develop their own shadow plans that can contribute, in the same way that all parties present their own shadow budgets. Let us give young people a future!
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-17	Madam President, I would like We need to make a major social change in order to achieve the climate goals. This is a change that needs to involve the whole of society and goes hand in hand with the work on redistribution and equality policy. No one should be left behind when we change the climate work. We're going to reach net zero emissions by 2045. This means zero emissions in most sectors. The transport system needs to be changed, industrial emissions must be reduced to close to zero and we must create the conditions for storing CO2 in order to achieve negative emissions. The technical prerequisites for changing are good, but research and continued investment in the industrial life is important. The Swedish business community has a strong desire to change. Within the Fossil free Sweden initiative, the industries themselves have developed roadmaps towards zero emissions. The transition is a prerequisite for competitiveness. The European Commission estimates that 2 million new jobs will be created as the EU now sets the target of achieving net zero emissions by 2050. Madam President, I would like We will not be able to achieve the climate targets ourselves. We need to work together in Europe and globally. The EU has the economic conditions, but it also has a responsibility to take the lead in international climate action. We must be a strong force in the UN and in the EU for a more ambitious climate policy. The EU's overall emissions must be reduced faster than they are today. Madam President, I would like We must show courage, take responsibility and work together to save the climate.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-22	Madam President, I would like The climate is one of the big issues of our time, and the Swedish Parliament has agreed on the world's perhaps most ambitious climate goals. During the alliance government, emissions decreased by 20 per cent, while growth increased by 10 per cent. It was a policy that really benefited the climate. Instead, under the red-green government, we see that emissions are increasing. Only yesterday, figures from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency showed that emissions increased in 2018. So we have come further from achieving our objectives. When asked whether this is a failure, Isabella Lövin answers no. Instead, she blames everything from business to weather. This confirms the criticism that the Moderates, together with heavy bodies such as the Institute of Economics and the National Audit Office, have directed against the policy of the Red-Green Government as it does not deliver results. It's been four lost years for the climate. This is serious, and the report by the Climate Policy Council reinforces the concerns of many of us. The Council notes that we will not achieve our objectives with government policy and also criticises the fact that the accounting of the effects of the government's climate policy does not meet the requirements of the Climate Act. There must be an end to an unsuccessful policy of symbolism. It is not enough to paste the "Climate" label on a reform and hope that it will have an effect. A focused policy is needed aimed at reducing emissions from transport and industry in particular, each accounting for its third of our emissions. That is why we have invested in our budget in the expansion of the infrastructure for charging poles along our roads. We want to screw up today's reduction obligation with higher requirements for the incorporation of biofuels. We also want to introduce a climate deduction for companies investing in technologies that radically reduce or delete their emissions. We also need to secure a fossil-free energy supply through both more renewable and nuclear power in order to electrify our transport and our industry. Unfortunately, we see that the government's tax increases on cogeneration and the phasing out of nuclear power will rather lead to less and no more electricity. The government measures the effect of its policies in the number of SEK spent when it should be evaluated based on reduced emissions. And there the government has failed radically. If we are to achieve our climate goals, we cannot afford symbolism policy. A fresh start is needed for Swedish climate policy, and the Climate Policy Council's report and criticisms underline in every way why.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-30	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the Climate Policy Council's report. There is a lot of interest in the report and a lot of good conclusions, for example that the government should better evaluate the benefits of its policies and not just talk about the crowns being invested. But unfortunately we have somewhere in a typical Swedish climate policy perspective where we only look at Sweden and miss the global perspective. The Climate Policy Council's report lacks a global perspective and impact assessments of how Swedish policies depend on what happens on the global stage to work and not just become extremely costly. This is not fundamentally the fault of the Climate Policy Council, but depends on the seven parties that have agreed to set it up in these forms. What we should talk about more about is technological development, research and innovation. That is what will finally be decided. It is not taxes, subsidies and regulations that will reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot in any way deny that more than 80 percent of all energy today is fossil. The world is completely dependent on fossil energy sources – it is a fact. When you look at the statistics you see that sun and wind are almost negligable. They account for a single percentage. Growth is relatively good, but these energy sources will remain at an extremely low level over the next few decades, according to all available analyses. Energy storage on a larger scale is still not cost-effective. It simply requires too much energy to implement. The expansion of coal, oil and gas is still going on on a large scale around the world. According to the latest forecasts, oil consumption will continue to increase significantly by 2040. This is the reality we are in, so this one-sided focus on Sweden – as if we were under some kind of dome – almost seems ridiculous. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, for example, we subsidise electric cars for billions over the next few years. These cars then end up in Norway, often already after six months. The subsidies thus go to companies, car manufacturers, wealthy people and to Norway, while the people who would like to buy these cars on the secondary market in Sweden cannot do so. In addition, we tax ordinary families with children who may buy a Dacia that they can just afford. Madam President, I would like We have a growing petrol tax rebellion in Sweden. Fuel prices are running out, and the gaps between the country and the city are at serious levels. Then Sweden's politicians have given the Climate Policy Council a perspective that allows their proposals to land in increased instruments, i.e. tax increases.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-37	Madam President, I would like We have had an alarming development in recent years. The Climate Policy Council says that Sweden has had a long-term trend of reducing emissions, but from 2015 the pace of emission reduction has slowed down. Think about what happened then! In addition, emissions are now increasing. This is a failure of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. We must reduce emissions and increase growth. If one blames that we have had a strong business cycle, it is the business cycle that is the problem. Then you're obviously against growth. It's not okay. We will set an example in the world. Then we must avoid complicated rules and high costs that prevent companies and people from being involved in changing. Then we need solutions where the challenges are, and then good living conditions are also needed. This is often referred to as a contradiction between city and country. And yes, it is. Because it is the countryside that is on all the solutions. There are forests, energy, manure, outlets to produce food and already expanded infrastructure for the electric car. It is the countryside that is the big winner of the green transition. It's the city that needs the countryside. We in Sweden will do things that others want to copy and take advantage of. That's how we become real forerunners. We have set the world's toughest climate targets, and we will live up to them. If we are to make this transition, we must show all the benefits. It is not possible to just talk about threats and problems and engage in horror propaganda. We have to show all the great possibilities. That is what all other countries want. There is much more to take care of here in Sweden. We have environmental cars that are exported a masse. The Swedish biogas is competed out by double-subsidised Danish dito. The production of domestic biofuels has not started, so we are vacuuming the world market. But there's a lot going on. The Center Party has achieved an incredible amount in the January agreement. We must be able to demonstrate the possibilities. When we draw an electricity cable to Lithuania and export Swedish renewable electricity, it is good because they become less dependent on Russian oil and gas. They become less dependent on rogue states, just as when we stopped importing the Russian oil we were driving our cars on. We will have a better security policy situation and an increased level of self-sufficiency. When electric cars roll on our streets, we also get reduced particle emissions. It's good for your health. Reduced noise means that we can build more homes. Climate policy, done correctly, offers fantastic opportunities. The Center Party is the party that believes in technology development, in people's inherent power to do good and in green growth and entrepreneurship. This is how we meet the climate challenge, not only in Sweden but all over the world – through opportunities and by taking the lead shirt and leading the way.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-47	Madam President, I would like What is quite clear from the report of the Climate Policy Council is that current policies are far from sufficient. The Council notes that climate objectives must be integrated into all political decisions, in all public investigations and in all proposals submitted by the Government. This also means that our authorities must be given new assignments and that our state-owned companies must be given new ownership directives. It does not hold that we have, for example, a defence force that routinely says no to the establishment of all new wind power in Sweden. It does not hold that we have a government authority, Swedavia, that wants to double the number of departures by air to and from Arlanda.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-50	The report also clearly states that today we have infrastructure planning that is not at all related to our climate objectives. The Finnish Transport Administration and the infrastructure planners seem to be living in their own universe and are planning for new motorways and growing emissions based on forecasts of more motorism. Isabella Lövin, what is the plan to change the infrastructure planning in Sweden, so that we get a planning that fully integrates the climate issue? The report also addresses the important issue of levelling out differences in Sweden. We cannot have a policy that makes people living in rural areas feel left behind or where people with small wallets think that rich people can continue to live their lives in the lurch and burden the climate several times more than ordinary people. I think it is incredibly important that we have a clear justice dimension in climate policy. I have missed this so far in the Swedish debate. Isabella Lövin is quite right that there is an emergency for the climate. But what conclusions do she and the government draw from it? The United Kingdom, Ireland, Scotland, Wales and a large and growing number of municipalities have declared an emergency for the climate. This means deciding to give priority to the climate issue over all other issues. To announce an emergency for the climate would be a clear signal to the activists who are demonstrating on our streets and the students who are on strike outside right now that we are taking their concerns seriously, that we will do more and that we will give priority to the climate issue over all other political issues. Isabella Lövi n and all the other debaters here! Are you prepared, just like us in the Left Party, to announce an emergency for the climate?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-56	Madam President, I would like A decrease of 2% in three years is significantly worse than a decrease of 19% in eight years. Yesterday we were able to read that emissions in 2018 have actually increased. It won't hold! We must keep a curve that leads to our reaching the Swedish 2030 target. Then we must shift the focus from symbolic measures to changes that actually have a greater quantitative effect. It was a rather interesting move we had some time ago when representatives from the Committee on Transport and the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture were gathered to hear the main features of the Council's report. For me as a rural resident, there were occasions during the draw when I didn't know whether to laugh or cry. When I was able to read the report in more detail, the Council had nevertheless made some recommendations showing that not everything revolves around Södermalm. In the recommendations, the Council states that we should take account of the different conditions between city and country and that we should equalise negative distribution policy effects. Furthermore, the Council states that an effective climate policy is based on legitimacy, trust, fairness and acceptance. That sentence is extremely important. It is easy to sit on your high horses when you live in a larger city and have completely different conditions to change or choose public transport compared to the countryside. The Council also refers to the importance of the interaction between policy and industry in terms of industrial change. Co-decision gives the necessary trust and legitimacy. When the industry then manages to reset, we have major environmental benefits to bring home. The transport companies like to see longer and heavier trucks in order to get fewer transports on our roads. Even if we want to transfer as much goods as possible by rail, we still have to have lorries in the future. The Swedish Transport Administration has shown that for SEK 150 million we would get a 450-mile combined road network that would work for trucks of 34.5 meters. Unfortunately, this is stuck somewhere along the way in the mills of the government. Unfortunately, because that would drastically reduce emissions. Research shows that we can go much further when it comes to biofuels, which I also mentioned during yesterday's Question Time. Researchers have shown how only residues from logging can supply the entire Swedish domestic aviation with biofuels without the need for more forest felling. As far as electrification is concerned, as the Council is clear about the need to speed up, we in the Christian Democrats are looking at how, in addition to investing in technology-neutral charging infrastructure, we should electrify the major roads for heavier vehicles. It is of great value here to cooperate with other countries in Europe in order for us to have the same technical solution. Finally, Madam President, Norway has pointed out the direction of electrification of domestic aviation. And we know Norway!
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-65	Madam President, I would like The new Climate Act entered into force on 1 January 2018, and the Climate Policy Council will make annual assessments of climate policy. This year's report has focused on the transport sector, a sector that accounts for one third of Sweden's total carbon dioxide emissions. It is coldly noted that, under the current conditions, we only reach the mid-way target of reducing emissions by at least 70% by 2030. We know that transport issues are perceived as very close to the individual citizen and can separate and segregated people if we do not make wise decisions and look at the whole. In fact, it calls for both strong policy measures and for us to take account of the different conditions between, for example, urban and rural areas. If climate policy is to be implemented, political pamphlets, whips or carrots are not enough. In fact, it must be built on consensus, understanding, acceptance and collaboration. The alternative is chaos and yellow vests on the streets, and it is an expression of frustration. The alternative is also that young people leave school to strike, and it is also an expression of frustration. Liberals believe in green tax exchange. The polluter should pay. That is why we want to increase taxes on emissions and environmentally harmful activities by removing tax subsidies on fossil fuels, reforming the travel allowance, increasing the benefit value of cars that are not environmental cars – by the way – an expression that we need to define much better than we do today – while at the same time we want to reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship precisely in order for it to pay off with a green tax shift. Of course, aviation should also bear its climate costs. As part of the January Agreement, a proposal on environmental management of take-off and landing charges will be developed and a high level of interference of sustainable renewable fuel will be given financial incentives. When an aviation fuel tax system is in place, we also want it to replace today's flight ticket tax. The flight that emits more should pay more than what emits less, and it should be easy for us as consumers to do the right thing. That is why we also want to introduce a mandatory climate declaration for the purchase of air travel. Madam President, I would like The fact that we have to use more fossil-free electricity when we see electricity as a solution to all our problems is obvious. We therefore want targets of 100% fossil-free electricity systems with a mix of nuclear, hydropower and renewables. We believe that nuclear power is needed for the sake of the climate, as the UN Panel on Climate Change also thinks.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-71	Madam President, I would like Having listened to the speeches by other parties, I can see that the debate is high and low. I see a commitment in this House, and that is encouraging. I also note that several Members are calling for more details. In addition to the broad conclusions I mentioned just now, the Council has made a series of more detailed proposals that we are looking at. The same applies to the civil society checklist and business roadmaps. They give the government a clear indication of what they are calling for in order to contribute to zero emissions in 2045. Here I can mention some suggestions that I find inspiring. Among the most obvious are the proposal to remove CO2 tax exemptions in the sectors that currently have them. The Council points out that such exemptions are a misguided way of providing support, as they maintain dependence on fossil fuels. There are other ways of providing better support. Another proposal is that industry needs long-term support in order to develop new technologies that provide leaps in development, rather than ant steps, in the right direction. This is something that the government is already doing, but it is a direction that we will continue and deepen. A large part of the report is devoted to transport emissions. There are many suggestions here. A whole toolbox will be needed. There is no single magic solution, no alexander. For example, the Council wants to see a final year for the sale of fossil fuels. And the government's ambition is for the sale of fossil-powered cars to end in 2030 – that is something that there is already a majority for in this House. The electrification of transport is fast but not fast enough. More charging stations are needed, especially in rural areas in the so-called white spots. Better opportunities are needed to produce and also to use biofuels. A starting point for the government, as underlined by the Council's report, is to take account of the distribution effects. The aim is for climate policy to reduce the gaps and make it easier to do the right thing, not the other way round. These proposals and many more are now being prepared. I think I have made it clear that this action plan should be the whole government's proposal. The process is therefore broad. It is far too early today to take a closer look at our discussions or what will or will not be included. But most agree that emissions must be reduced rapidly, and the government puts the emphasis in the action plan on the word action rather than on the word plan.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-79	Madam President, I would like Government! Isabella Lövin does not want to describe the increased emissions as a failure, we heard yesterday. But the truth is that government policy is a failure and that we are getting further away from our goals. Together with the Konjunkturinstitutet and the Swedish National Audit Office, the Moderates have criticised the government's policy as it does not deliver results. We have long demanded that the government disclose the benefits to the climate when making new proposals. The Climate Policy Council criticises the Government's policy not being sufficient to achieve the objectives, but also that the reporting of the results is poor and does not meet the requirements of the Climate Act. So the government does not measure the impact of its policies. This is not done either before making proposals or afterwards. My question to Isabella Lövin is therefore: Is this to be changed in the future? Is it going to go from symbolic politics to performance politics? Are we going to present the climate benefit when making new proposals, and are we going to improve accounting, as the Climate Policy Council demands?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-82	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz! First of all, it is not true that we do not report on the effects of the measures we are taking. It is continuously analysed by our authorities. But I want to focus on this with cost-effectiveness, because it's something that the Moderates keep coming back to. One might ask the economic experts who really want to identify the most effective measures to reduce emissions. For example, it is about increasing the CO2 tax and making it more expensive to release. Then it is very interesting that the Moderates and Christian Democrats in their budget, the one they got through with the support of the Swedish Democrats, chose instead to lower the carbon tax, remove the air tax and remove 40 percent of the environmental and climate budget. In what way, Jessica Rosencrantz, will it reduce emissions here and now, when scientists give us ten years to halve emissions? And what measures did you take when you were in government to eliminate emissions in the transport sector?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-85	Madam President, I would like Government! Thus, during the alliance government, emissions decreased. Now we see that they are increasing during this government. What we did was eliminate the over-indexation of the petrol tax-- that's right. We abolished the airline tax, because we would rather have demands on biofuels in the tank. That's a better way to go. But I have to question whether you really report the benefits of your actions. The e-bike premium we never saw much calculations of. When it comes to climate change, which was strongly criticised by virtually all expert authorities, the government only says: We will return in the future with improvements.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-87	Madam President, I would like After all, we can do both – aviation tax and investment in biofuels in aviation. So do we. It is clear that during your years of power, you did not make a major reform to remove fossil fuels in the transport sector. And you have done nothing to get rid of the fossil subsidies for cogeneration plants and fossil fuels in cogeneration – that is exactly what increased emissions last year. Let's do something. We are removing those subsidies, and we are investing in renewables, so that ordinary people can contribute to the green transition.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-90	Madam President, I would like The Climate Policy Council's report and its recommendations include: Strengthen municipalities' mandate and tools to promote fossil-free transport! They highlight things like local congestion taxes, that municipalities should be allowed to decide over themselves, and car pool parking. You can add parking fees and other things. When are these changes coming, Isabella Lövin? Why does the government not trust the municipalities? These are issues that have been discussed long and well. This also contributes to increased environmental car exports to Norway, Germany and the Netherlands. Why does the government not trust the municipalities? Why does the government not allow the municipalities to govern and help in this transition? When can we expect to see any of this? Does the government at all share the idea that municipalities should be given a little more power to control both their land and their congestion taxes?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-93	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! Yes, it was the Green Party that at one time pushed through the congestion tax in Stockholm, which there was massive resistance to. Now we have it in place. It is an important instrument. It was not least in the beginning an important instrument, until the bourgeois took over in Stockholm and decided to take the money from the congestion tax and invest it on motorways rather than on public transport, as it was intended. We know that there are constitutional problems in giving tax law opportunities to municipalities on this issue. Perhaps that is regrettable. I can well say that nothing was done about it during the time of the alliance. I think it is an important question of principle that municipalities should be given the opportunity, for example, to introduce environmental zones in their inner cities and to charge car charges in different ways.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-95	Madam President, I would like Now this was not a debate about the commodity of congestion tax or not being, but it was a debate about municipalities being given more instruments. I note that Isabella Lövin does not say anything about car pool parking, environmental car parking or parking fees, where there are simple pen lines in the law. One word is enough to allow free parking for environmental cars. This would be one of the most powerful measures to reduce exports of environmental cars. Why has the government not acted in this area, when we have seen this development, which is a problem, for years?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-97	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin! When it comes to opportunities to promote car pools and rechargeable cars, I note that cities and municipalities everywhere provide this kind of opportunity so that you can park for free and charge your car. We have written in the January agreement on how to further benefit car pools and moped and motorcycle pools. We are also going to tax-promoting bike commuting, which I think is a good thing.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-99	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for the Environment and Climate Minister. One of the main issues raised by the Climate Policy Council is the emissions from road traffic, which unfortunately is increasing. Exactly a year ago, in May last year, the Minister's new spokesperson, Per Bolund, said that there would be a proposal for a kilometre tax on heavy goods transport. It was due in the autumn of 2018. I have not seen such a bill. Such a law on mileage taxes would, of course, be an effective way of reducing emissions from heavy goods transport. Isabella Lövin's Green colleagues in the UK, Wales, Scotland and now also Ireland are driving and have been involved in declaring an emergency for the climate. I note that the environmental parties in Gothenburg, together with the Left Party, also want to do so. Why can't we announce an emergency for the climate here, at national level, Isabella Lövin?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-103	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! The January agreement clearly states that we will investigate and look at environmental charges to replace the Eurovignette for heavy goods transport. With regard to the climate emergency, Jens Holm has wrongly described it as that countries have now decided to put the climate ahead of everything else. However, looking carefully at the decisions that have been taken, it is, for example, a fairly loose declaration in the UK that the UK will have net zero emissions in 2050. We already have a law that says we should have net zero emissions in 2045. That we are driven by making a real difference and making sure that we get emissions down, I hope no one doubts. However, when the Left Party cooperated with us last period and highlighted its important gains during this cooperation, you did not mention a single climate policy measure that you have achieved.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-106	Madam President, I would like To announce an emergency for the climate, I think, is a clear signal from us politicians, where we say that we will do everything we can to prioritise the climate. I note that in the UK both Labour and the Greens make that assessment, and so do the environmentalists and left-wing parties in Gothenburg. I think it would be helpful for the climate transition if we called for an emergency for the climate. It would be easier to prioritise the climate issue.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-108	Madam President, I would like Firstly, I agree that this is an emergency. Secondly, I must question whether the Left Party really does everything and puts the climate ahead of everything else. When you yourself describe what you have achieved in the last parliamentary term, you do not mention any climate policy measures at all. We have to fill politics with content, Jens Holm. We cannot just throw out signal politics. It is important that we reduce emissions here and now, and then we need proper policies. I hope we can work together on this in this House.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-110	Madam President, I would like We in Sweden have a great competitive advantage. Many of us live in the middle of the forest, and if there is something we should use in the transition, it is precisely the forest. The Council's report states that while there are effective instruments to increase the use of biofuels, domestic production has not been sufficiently stimulated. .....................................................
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-113	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the question! What the government has done and what the alliance government never had to do is impose a reduction obligation on fuel. That is to say, we are forcing the fuel distributors now to increase the involvement of renewables in petrol and diesel. This provides long-term planning conditions for investments in biofuels in Sweden, where we can use the green industries and the large capital that we have in the form of biomass that can be used for fuel. This is something that has been requested from the industry for a very long time. We also provide research support and support specifically for what the honourable Member mentioned, namely biofuels for aviation. This is something that triggers a lot of activity both in terms of research and in terms of investments in biofuels in Sweden. It is about long-term and stable policies.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-116	Madam President, I would like Earlier, in winter, we had a long time in the Environment and Agriculture Committee. A whole day from and to, we held meetings about LULUCF. According to the Minister, it would be completely impossible to implement it. Yesterday I saw that the Forest Industries on their website writes that the Commission has now adopted the Swedish proposal regarding LULUCF. The Minister therefore shows that she does not want to use the Swedish forest to the full. We will use the Swedish forest – but sustainable. The Minister doesn't want to go that far. But now we see that it works.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-118	Madam President, I would like I stand up because we have to report correctly to the Commission under the conditions that the Commission has carefully specified. I hope that other Member States will too. We shall have comparability in how countries report so that we can actually check whether emissions are going down or not. Sweden has a very nice condition for 100 percent renewable. We'll be very happy and proud of that, and we'll go ahead. But we do not want to confuse the cards or open the door for others to do so.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-120	Madam President, I would like In order to make the transition, we need to make transport more efficient, create a well-functioning transport system and reduce emissions in the transport sector. We must move on to biofuels and set out the way forward for the reduction obligation. Forests will play a crucial role in the transition to climate-smart society, partly through the ability to produce advanced biofuels and partly through the role of forests as carbon sinks. The electrification will also be very important. To do this, we need to develop electric roads, expand charging infrastructure and develop new and better batteries. Madam President, I would like I am extremely pleased with the announcements made by the government during the last parliamentary term regarding four-tracks and better rail connections between Uppsala and Stockholm. The government is now ready to realise the greatest train investment in modern times, and it will have a huge impact on climate goals. Emissions from aviation must also be reduced. Aviation tax should remain, and we want to review the possibility of introducing instruments for more green approaches and introducing reduction obligations for aviation as well. A major responsibility for the transformation has the country's municipalities with sustainable urban development, the development of smart cities, waste management and public transport. Climate change has led to important investments for the climate throughout the country, and with the urban environment agreements we have less climate impact in the cities. Madam President, I would like The climate challenge requires leadership, common solutions and cooperation between all sectors of society.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-127	Madam President, I would like Several speakers have spoken here today about the obligation to reduce. The International Council on Clean Transportation, the ICCT – who were the discoverers of the diesel-bluff – has also looked at the biofuels. According to their conclusion, almost all the substances we use have too much climate impact and drive up prices. Why increase the reduction requirement if it increases emissions in relation to fossil diesel and petrol?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-129	Madam President, I would like We are facing a change in society as a whole, and the transport sector is an absolutely crucial part of managing the transition. We need to move forward on a broad front with electrification, efficiency and biofuels. The advanced biofuels produced in Sweden are extremely important. That is why we also need to make the efforts that the government has put forward.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-130	Madam President, I would like Advanced biofuels and biofuels from real residues are great because they reduce emissions. But it is not Swedish biofuels policy today. Swedish biofuels policy is to import fulbiofuels that increase emissions and also help raise prices even more. In addition to the government's high tax policy which has started the petrol tax uprising, we will also have even more expensive biofuels. According to the research, it is not good biofuels. Why should we continue with politics? I still want answers to that question.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-132	Madam President, I would like The reduction obligation is doing exactly what the climate my island has just said, namely that the development of biofuels is also taking place domestically that we need to cope with the transition. It is extremely important, together with the LULUCF rules that exist and where we need to report accurate data to the EU. The question, Madam President, comes from a party that voted against the Paris Agreement and on all other issues thinks that Swedish politics is important, but in climate policy the responsibility is entirely waived.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-134	Madam President, I would like The Climate Policy Council writes: Implement regulatory changes that discourage the rapid further export of environmental cars. We have a huge problem, namely that exports of cars under five years old increased by 107% last year. There are figures showing that one third of all electric cars end up in Norway within a few years, and gas cars end up in the Netherlands and Germany. The government hasn't done a damn thing here.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-137	Madam President, I would like I note that we Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, have a January agreement which addresses many of these points. We will carry out one of the most offensive climate efforts ever. I look forward to the fact that, in the climate action plan submitted by the Government to Parliament this autumn, we are addressing a large part of the issues raised in the debate. But we also need to make sure that we drive progress.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-139	Madam President, I would like I still did not hear any proposals as to what the Social Democrats and the government want. There is nothing in the January agreement on how to stop this. The Center Party proposes a split bonus – malus so as not to export prematurely, free parking for the best environmental cars, discounted or abolished congestion tax, possibility to drive in bus files when appropriate and so on. These are things that would directly make a difference and that would keep the cars in Sweden and do climate benefit here. Is that one of the things the Social Democrats are up to? Do you have any proposals of your own to reduce the export of environmental cars?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-142	Madam President, I would like Since I am the former chairman of the municipal board in Uppsala, I know just how important what Rickard Nordin says is for development and for a sustainable Sweden. What I know is that we will discuss together how to develop a climate action plan that meets the very challenges raised by the honourable Member. I look forward to those discussions.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-143	Madam President, I would like Ms Burwick raised several important issues in her speech, including the rapidly growing emissions from aviation. There's a flight tax, and that's good. At the same time, the Arlanda Council, chaired by the Minister for Infrastructure, has made a proposal. It is predicted that flights to and from Arlanda will double. Do the Social Democrats believe that Arlanda can expand in this way?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-145	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Jens Holm that emissions from aviation must be reduced. As I said in my speech, we will work on keeping the air tax, reviewing the possibilities for more green approaches and increasing the reduction obligation for flights. These are incredibly important measures. We also need to look at the future of Bromma, for example.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-147	Madam President, I would like It's something that's not really connected. On the one hand, the government has introduced a flight tax and a number of other reforms that Mr Burwick has presented, which I fully welcome, but, on the other hand, if at the same time we are planning for flights to and from Arlanda to double, how will it be done within the climate targets? Is it not obvious that emissions from the aviation industry will grow if you spend a lot of money on expanding Arlanda, Marlene Burwick?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-148	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that emissions from aviation must be reduced, and I hope that we in this House can take many of the decisions that are important for that to happen. In this perspective, we need to review Bromma's future and move that air traffic to Arlanda. But it is important to see this in combination with the train investment that is also carried out by the government, which is the largest in modern times. It is also about how we can get out more easily by train in Europe and also about the extension of high-speed trains. These issues need to be looked at in a holistic way, and we want to work together with all parties in this House.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-151	Madam President, I would like Listening to the government can give you the impression that everything is going in the right direction, but the truth is the opposite. Emissions are increasing, and we are getting further from our targets. The Climate Policy Council is clear that electrification must be increased for the sake of climate change. If we are to reach climate targets, we need to electrify both industry and transport. A recent report states that the need for electricity will increase by 30% to 2045 if the road maps for industry and the transport sector are to be implemented. But the government lacks a plan for electrification of Sweden. Recently, it was announced that cogeneration and electricity generation will be shut down in both Malmö and Stockholm as a result of the government's tax increases, which exacerbates today's electricity shortage. The Green Party also wants to phase out nuclear power, which accounts for 40% of our energy supply, to 2040. The effect of the government and the Green Party's policies is therefore less, no more, electricity. It is clear to the Moderates that we need both renewables and nuclear power. The UN Panel on Climate Change also anticipates a significant increase in nuclear power in its main scenarios to achieve global climate goals. Has the government made any analysis of how solar and wind alone will replace not only 40% of current electricity production but also an increase in total energy production by 30%? What is most important, Madam President? Is it phasing out nuclear power or succeeding in electrification and achieving our climate goals? The government clearly lacks a plan for electrification of Sweden, and it is clear that the Green Party must release its dogmatic resistance to nuclear power. Anyone who protects the climate must realise that we need both renewable and nuclear power to electrify both industry and transport.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-157	Madam President, I would like Firstly, the UN Panel on Climate Change does not recommend any more nuclear power. Secondly, the report referred to by Jessica Rosencrantz is not a scientific report but an assessment based on very loose assumptions. Let us look at how Sweden is producing today. There's an electricity surplus. With investments in wind power that will amount to 25% of Sweden's electricity production within four years, we will continue to have a surplus that can be exported.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-159	Madam President, I would like I note that the roadmaps for fossil freedom to which the government attaches a great deal of importance in all other contexts, which I think is appropriate, are being waved away in this context by Isabella Lövin. I am sorry to hear that, because it is clear that all the reports we can hear show that the need for electricity will increase radically in the coming years. Isabella Lövin often says that we need to electrify, but when it comes to concrete results and measures, we see, on the contrary, that electricity generation risks reducing with government policy.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-160	Madam President, I would like I recommend reading today's DN Debate, where energy experts predict that we will be able to export nearly 40 terawatt hours in 2022. Sweden has never been close to such a large electricity surplus as what we will be able to expand to thanks to the Energy Agreement. New nuclear power is twice as expensive as new renewable electricity. This is not to be cost-effective, Jessica Rosencrantz. Can you explain this to the viewers and voters?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-162	Madam President, I would like It sounds like we have plenty of electricity on Isabella Lövin. Tell it to all the companies around Sweden that cannot establish themselves because there is a shortage of electricity in many of our municipalities. Tell that to Mälardalen, where due to lack of electricity you cannot expand charging poles to the extent needed. The question I ask myself is: Why does Isabella Lövin see an intrinsic value in excluding a fossil-free energy species instead of ensuring that we can use all fossil-free energy types to jointly reach the climate goals?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-164	Madam President, I would like The Moderates point out in the debate that we agree on the climate targets and that that is the only way we are arguing about. However, it is only true on a theoretical level. What reforms do the Moderates want to implement to achieve the climate goals? Your budget contained many beautiful words about climate-neutral economy, Jessica Rosencrantz, but how can reductions of over 2 billion in the environmental and climate budget make us reach climate targets faster?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-166	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Marlene Burwick! The Social Democrats want to black out our budget, but the truth is that it is the second largest climate budget that has ever passed through this House. What we have reduced support for are inefficient investments that have been condemned by expert authorities such as the Swedish National Audit Office, such as the Climate Board. I cannot even reproduce all the extensive criticisms on the part of the National Audit Office that both I and Marlene Burwick have taken part in and that this is clearly inefficient symbol politics. The result, of course, is that emissions have increased with this government's policy.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-168	Madam President, I would like It is serious that emissions are increasing. This requires more, not less, measures. This requires investment, not 2 billion cuts. It is indeed black irony that Sweden lowered its climate ambitions with the M-KD budget the same week that the world negotiated in Katowice to save the Paris Agreement.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-169	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that e-bike premiums or climate anxiety therapy will cause us to reduce emissions and reach our climate targets in Sweden. What we from the Moderates are investing in are offensive efforts to expand charging poles and increase the requirements for the involvement of biofuels. We want a climate allowance for the industry in order for the industry to change. In the area by area, we say 'yes' to strong efforts, but we do not say 'yes' to fruitless symbolism policies where you only spend money while the result is that emissions increase.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-170	Madam President, I would like One of the main problems raised by the Climate Policy Council is the national infrastructure planning, based on forecasts of increased traffic rather than emission reduction targets. One consequence of this planning is the planned construction of Tvärtändning Södertörn south of Stockholm – a giant motor vehicle that will cost over SEK 10 billion and that will increase emissions, not reduce them. Do the Moderates consider cross-connection Södertörn to be in line with our climate goals?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-171	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Jens Holm! I think it is important to take the Climate Policy Council's recommendation seriously when it comes to having a policy that holds Sweden together and that does not put cities and rural areas against each other. I believe that in infrastructure planning too, we will need both railways and roads to ensure that Sweden stays together. If we all believe and aim for cars to be fossil-free in the future, I do not see a problem as big as Jens Holm that we are also building new roads for these fossil-free cars.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-172	Madam President, I would like In this case, it is a motorway of more than SEK 10 billion in the Stockholm region, a region that is already receiving major infrastructure investments and where public transport needs to be increased rather than on the roads. Cross-connection Södertörn is dismissed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency precisely because the motorway will lead to increased, not reduced, emissions. Therefore, I do not understand why the Moderates, and also the government, believe that this should be a priority object. It is not at all in line with our climate targets. Or do the Moderates think it does?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-173	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to safeguard both accessibility and sustainability in society and in our infrastructure planning. I will come back to my observation: if the cars of the future are to be emission-free, I do not really see why the Left Party insists on fighting every new road. In that case, the problem has been solved, so to speak. I believe, however, that we must have a balance here. I believe that we need to see that we need both increased public transport and greater rail investments as well as reinforcements in our road network.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-175	Madam President, I would like The Climate Policy Council's report shows the complexity of the climate issue without sufficiently addressing it. Much needs to be done locally and in companies, but the challenge remains global. Nor is it possible to do things overnight; according to the Council, the share of electric cars per kilometre will still be relatively small by 2030. From a global perspective, the electric car is also not a solution because the world is still completely dependent on fossil energy. It is therefore unfortunate that we have a transport policy that steers towards biofuels, which increases emissions outside Sweden but looks good for our statistics. We have an energy policy that drives more fossil electricity generation in other countries – and perhaps even in our own country. There is also talk of phasing out fossil subsidies in agriculture. That may sound good, but we are talking here about a crisis industry that is going to produce food for us and which, moreover, is doing so in an extremely climate-friendly way. If we stop farming, we will import much worse food and cause emissions in other countries instead. Net sales would be likely to be negative. Increased production in Sweden is something we can really contribute, but it may not be able to tidy up the statistics. A prerequisite for the industry's contribution is that the climate for doing business in Sweden is good and that companies can be competitive and have the necessary resources. As the UN Panel on Climate Change recently pointed out, we need to use all the technologies that enable emissions to be reduced, including nuclear power. It is these global perspectives that are ultimately central. Unfortunately, they are missing in the Council's mandate and therefore in its reports. This underlines the need to discuss new climate targets based on actual global benefits, as recommended by the Institute of Economic Development, and to establish a framework that works in harmony with this.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-179	Madam President, I would like Martin Kinnunen constantly refers to our great dependence on fossil fuels, and it is true that dependence exists. But what puzzles me is that the Swedish Democrats do not seem to think it is a good idea that Sweden should be self-sufficient when it comes to energy. We have the best conditions to drive our cars ourselves, with Swedish biofuels and Swedish renewable energy. Does Martin Kinnunen want us to continue to depend on Russian oil and gas or on oil from the OPEC countries?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I really think we should be self-sufficient in energy. It is therefore positive that we have a development that is pushing for electrification. This will happen, but it will not go overnight. In accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Finance Ministers, we also believe that the optimal option is not to phase out fuel engines by raising fuel prices in shock or stimulating biofuels; it is probably to have some ice in the stomach and wait for development. We will see electrification, and this will also be better for the climate.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-183	Madam President, I would like I wonder if Martin Kinnunen is aware that petrol and diesel prices have been raised by 1.50 in the last three months because of the spot price of oil on the world market and because of the Swedish krona rate. I think it is very serious that this argument should be used so that we do not change and take the lead in the green transition when it really affects the wallet of ordinary people every day that we are still dependent on oil from rogue states and countries that have us in their grip.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-185	Madam President, I would like The price of oil today is about $70. We've had significantly higher prices – almost 100 percent higher prices – without having higher fuel prices. It is still tax that is totally dominant in price developments. In addition, the reduction obligation helps to raise prices while increasing emissions in the countries of origin due to indirect soil effects.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-186	Madam President, I would like There will be a European elections. The European Parliament and the European Union can do much to reduce emissions from transport, as the Climate Policy Council has highlighted. The Center Party's Fredrick Federley has made great efforts to tighten up emissions trading, but there is more to do in the field of transport. Of course, aviation and shipping must enter the emissions trading system. We need more auctions and less free allocation. There are many more things that can be done in the field of transport at European level, where the Center Party is also running on the river. Train traffic needs to open up its reservation systems so that it is as easy to book trains across borders as it is to book flights. We also need to have strengthened consumer rights so that it is not a matter of ten crowns when there are delays. The train must have strong late payments in the same way as the flight has. We need to have climate declarations on all our transport – not only on aviation but also on shipping, bus and boat, so that emissions can be compared. When it comes to aviation, it is possible at European level to ensure that we get straighter routes. This – ensuring that you actually fly straight – is one of the biggest measures we can take to reduce emissions. Today we fly crookedly, which is absurd. The air should be free. We can also ensure that we negotiate the rules that prevent us from taxing aviation fuel. That would allow us to have an aviation fuel tax instead of the ticket tax that we have today. When it comes to the automotive and land transport sectors, we need to have tougher demands in the new production of cars. We also need to make sure that it is not possible to get away by buying free from others that make things better. We need to have better requirements for biofuels that make it easier to use all kinds of biofuels, because they reduce emissions. We also need to have better requirements for new trucks and be able to drive longer and heavier vehicles. The solutions are there. The question is whether the political will is with others than with the Center Party. We are going to elections on a green Europe, a Europe with less emissions and more prosperity. This is the way to meet the climate challenge.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-195	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin and I share the great ambitions at European level. However, I would like to return to this point by the fact that, unfortunately, emissions in the transport sector and in the cogeneration sector increased last year. The fact that emissions have decreased since 1990 is due to the powerful CO2 tax that we introduced in Sweden in the early 1990s. What major reforms did you make when you sat in the alliance government, Rickard Nordin, to get fossil fuels out of the transport sector and out of the cogeneration sector?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-197	Madam President, I would like We saw that emissions decreased during the time of the alliance government. They decreased by 19% – that is much more than this government and the former could deliver. For example, we introduced an environmental car premium. During our reign, one third of all new cars sold were environmental cars. The ethanol cars boomed. It is a fantastic fuel, which can reduce emissions. In Norrköping, ethanol is produced that reduces emissions by over 90 per cent. This has been destroyed by this government through its tax policy; now the ethanol cars are dead.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-199	Madam President, I would like I note that you turned diesel cars into environmental cars and that you failed to make a major reform to introduce renewable fuels into petrol and diesel. It is this backwardness that we are now struggling with. When the Environmental Party came to the Ministry of the Environment, it was unfortunately empty in the desk drawers of new reforms to bring down fossil emissions. It can hardly have come as a surprise to the Center Party that we need to remove fossil fuels. I still lack the answer to what you did during your reign.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-201	Madam President, I would like The truth is that diesel cars were environmental cars throughout the last government period. Now there is not even an environmental car definition. It is a disgrace, and it means that we cannot proceed with procurement. We delivered the FFF investigation – 1,300 pages full of suggestions. The problem has been that the previous government did not take hold of it. We had a reduction obligation under way, which the EU failed. We had new proposals in two years before the last government was finally able to deliver a proposal. The problem has been the meekness of the previous government. This is what has been the major problem, and it is now also increasing emissions.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-204	Madam President, I would like In 2017, Rickard Nordin's party leader Annie Lööf said about the red-green climate budget: The environmental party's billion-dollar roll over the last few years has rather led to an increase in climate emissions in Sweden. ..................................................... That's the way it is. But I wonder how Rickard Nordin defends the fact that there is now a continuation of this climate policy after all we have been able to see with continued inefficient efforts, combined heat and power production that is being shut down and less electricity production in Sweden.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-206	Madam President, I would like If Jessica Rosencrantz has read the January Agreement, she has also seen that it says that what she is referring to, the Climate Count, will be updated and streamlined. These regulations are not finished, so how Jessica Rosencrantz can judge that this is still ineffective is for me a bit of a riddle. She also said herself that one should not have fruitless symbolic politics. That, however, is exactly what the Moderates are delivering. You remove things, but you don't add anything. Why do you do that if you now really want to make a difference?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-209	Madam President, I would like I have presented many of the strong proposals we have put forward in this debate in several contexts. I hope, of course, that Rickard Nordin is right, because when we stand here again in a year's time, the Center Party will also be behind the climate policy that determines whether emissions will increase in 2019 or not. I hope that there will be a conclusion to a climate policy that puts city against country and a conclusion to symbolism policy. Unfortunately, I have to say that so far I am not impressed. It looks like the red-green policy will continue.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-212	Madam President, I would like The Center Party will be behind the budget presented, but that is not all climate policy. There is an incredible amount more to climate policy than just what is presented in a budget. I hope that Jessica Rosencrantz knows that quite a lot in this House is about completely different things, including legislative measures, which we talked about earlier, in terms of environmental car parks, the possibility of charging congestion taxes locally and driving in bus lanes. These are things that are not in the budget, where the Center Party goes much further than both the Moderates and the government.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-214	Madam President, I would like I noted that Rickard Nordin's speech was like an election speech for the European Parliament elections. Then I can add that when the environmental movement has compared all the candidates, Malin Björk of the Left Party has been absolutely highly valued on environmental and climate issues. An important EU issue when it comes to the climate is the EU's state aid rules, which in practice today is a ban on state aid. This means that next year we may no longer have a reduction for biogas, biodiesel and ethanol. Does the Center Party want to change that?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-216	Madam President, I would like It even states in the January agreement that we should aim to negotiate the state aid rules. I share Jens Holm's view – he also knows this – that it is completely absurd and unreasonable for the European Union to set rules that will prevent renewables from being cheaper than fossils. There's a hole in the head. There we in Sweden must take a strong stand together. I think we agree on that, myself and Jens Holm and obviously the government too, because we have got it through in the January agreement.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-217	Madam President, I would like It is one thing to get it through in an agreement between four parties. It is another thing to get it through down in Brussels against the EU. Then you really have to know what you want. One simple way to solve this is to allow environmental protection and climate action to be exceptional, so that countries can always take measures for the environment and climate, such as tax cuts and state subsidies and perhaps the creation of a state company to run this. Is that what the Center Party wants?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-219	Madam President, I would like I think it's fun to have a change of line where there's no contradiction whatsoever. We in the Center Party have said that the EU's rather tough targets for what to achieve, such as climate support, should be further tightened. It must then be excluded from the state aid rules so that one can meet one's objectives. There we are in complete agreement. Actually, I don't see at all what's the contradiction in this line shift.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-221	Madam President, I would like I said in my previous speech that I believe that Parliament and the government should announce an emergency for the climate. This would mean that the climate issue would be taken over by all other political decisions. And there are many politicians who say that the climate issue should be taken over. For example, we also heard climate minister Isabella Lövin talk about it. What does it really mean, and is it something that the government is doing today? No, I don't think so. I believe that the government could, for example, give new regulatory letters to our authorities, including to the Swedish Armed Forces, Swedish State Swedavia and so on, and say that everything they do must remain within the framework of our climate targets. The same applies to our state-owned companies, which must have completely new ownership directives from a climate perspective. I don't see it happening from this government. It may also be about not giving permission for the expansion of Preemraff in Lysekil. If they can expand and refine oil, they can become Sweden's largest emitter. It is also about daring to say no to the construction of the fossil gas terminal in Gothenburg, which can bring fossil gas into the Swedish biogas network to a large extent. All proposals and government investigations must relate to climate targets, as proposed by the Climate Policy Council. But I don't see it happening from the government, even if that's a lot of fair words. Now the representatives of the government have the chance to prove that the climate is really being put above all else, and I hope to hear that.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-226	Madam President, I would like In the January agreement, we agree that all relevant legislation in Sweden will be reviewed so that we can meet the climate targets. This is unique. Perhaps it is the most ambitious wording in the whole January agreement. It will have effects on all relevant legislation, including the Planning and Construction Act, the Environmental Code and so on. If the Left Party puts the climate above all else, why did you not push climate issues during the last parliamentary term? Why is Malin Björk not in a single climate-relevant committee in the European Parliament?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-228	Madam President, I would like Why was it that when the European environmental movement looked at all EU parliamentarians, it was of all Swedish MEPs that Malin Björk of the Left Party received the highest ranking on climate issues? Isabella Lövin, you're completely wrong. We pushed climate issues in the negotiations with you. Unfortunately, however, you said no to a higher aviation tax, which we want, and no to the fact that the infrastructure plan should be kept within the framework of the climate targets. On the other hand, we got free public transportation for children and young people, great, and night trains up to Jämtland, also great – things that the Left Party ran.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-230	Madam President, I would like I was in the negotiating rooms, and I know what's true of that. We drove through the night trains to Jämtland. Your own accounts show what your priorities are. These were not environmental and climate issues. When the Left Party gets high marks, it is based very much on a few votes in Parliament, not on who has really pushed through legislation, worked every day and sat in committees. And it is the members of the Green Party who have elected those committees and who are working on those issues.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-232	Madam President, I would like I am still a little surprised that the Green Party and the Social Democrats did not agree to our proposal for a higher aviation tax and that the infrastructure plan should remain within the framework of our climate targets. However, it is great that we got through free public transport for children and young people. And we want to be fair-- the Green Party had to communicate out the trains to Jämtland. But when the European environmental movement compares all MEPs, it is the Left Party that is best for the environment and the climate. Note it!
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-233	Madam President, I would like In the transition, we have to be smart. Where's the easiest thing to do? Well, in larger cities that have a well-functioning public transport system that can also be relatively easily expanded because there is the right infrastructure. In addition, cycling is much easier in cities. We must clearly show the benefits of public transport compared to sitting in a traffic jam and barring. Where is the most cheating about the travel allowance? Well, in larger cities where you don't really have as much need of the car. We need to develop instruments to push for change for the sake of the environment and climate. Then we must have instruments which do not paint with broad strokes of brush, but instruments which, with surgical precision, do the right thing, precisely so that it does not become symbolic policy or that we do not lose the legitimacy, trust, fairness and acceptance on which an effective climate policy is based. For example, we in the Christian Democrats are looking at a completely new model of road taxation, which is precisely the toughest in the areas where the alternatives exist, in the larger cities. Transport is one thing, but we need to look at the overall situation of rural areas in terms of the business environment, the possibility of work, access to services, goods and services, and so on, because we have no living countryside left, nor do we have any Swedish food, no Swedish raw materials. Biofuel can be seen far behind. Madam President, I would like When I returned to the office yesterday after the vote, I received e-mails from a pensioner in northern Värmland, which I will very briefly finish by reading out. In addition, if we are pensioners with low pensions, the economic muscles do not exist so that we can contribute more to the environment. It is not better that the government has announced new taxes and tax increases. We cannot be supposed to sit still in our homes and wait for the last trip up to Sankte Per. It is pleasing, however, that on that journey there is then no tax. So far, perhaps it is best to add. ..................................................... An effective climate policy is based on legitimacy, trust, fairness and acceptance.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-240	Madam President, I would like We need to make a major social change in order to achieve the climate goals. I hear the honourable Member say a great deal, but he lacks the insight that it is a very urgent matter. I would like to repeat my question: how do the Christian Democrats believe that cuts of over 2 billion in the budget will speed us up to the climate targets?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-242	Madam President, I would like The answer to this question has actually been given by Mrs Burwick already by Jessica Rosencrantz. Your own experts, Konjunkturinstitutet and Riksrevisionen, saw several of the initiatives and said they were ineffective. We have had contacts with other organisations within the environmental movement that are in complete agreement with them that the initiatives do not reach their conclusion. And we can see that. During our years in the government, emissions went down considerably more than they are now. Now they're even going upstairs.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-244	Madam President, I would like That's not true. What we need to do to achieve the climate goals is a major investment in transformation throughout the country and capture all the ideas that exist in our elongated country to achieve this. This is what we can do with the investments that the Moderates and Christian Democrats are cutting back on. Let me use a word that you use in the European election movement. What is the appropriate amount of climate change in KD's world? And what is the time for the climate crisis?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-246	Madam President, I would like As far as the word is concerned, it is about what the EU should care about, not what the EU should do. If it is something that the EU should work hard on, it is environmental and climate issues, because it transcends all land borders. This is where we have to work together. As the largest overall economy, the EU should really take the lead and show other countries, such as China and the United States, that a change is worthwhile. We have to get them on the train. Otherwise, the train goes to the precipice, and we're going to go with you. So we cannot have a proper environmental and climate policy.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-247	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats welcome the fact that the Christian Democrats are now clearly talking about nuclear power and that this issue is being raised and high in tone. That's a good thing. But when will the Christian Democrats become clearer and act on the matter? Ringnecks start shutting down this year, and next year it's gonna be done. When will the Christian Democrats initiate more concrete proposals that end up in this House?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-249	Madam President, I would like Yesterday we last took part in voting for an announcement of what was not expected. Otherwise, it is my colleague Camilla Brodin in the Committee on Economic Affairs who is pushing these issues – in a worthy way, I would say. What lies in her agenda, unfortunately, I cannot answer, Martin Kinnunen. I'll have to ask you to talk to Camilla Brodin, because it's like I said she's running these issues for us. However, I know that we will continue to work, because we see, as the IPCC report says, that nuclear power is an important part.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-252	Madam President, I would like Exactly, the security of delivery we got through yesterday. In the field of energy, however, there are a number of sensible parties in the Swedish parliament, which includes the Liberals. It is funny that they make sense in this area. We pushed this issue within the framework of the Energy Commission, but we did not get support for it. Now, however, more parties have joined, and we have got through the proposal on security of supply, which is very positive. We can also get nuclear power through if the Christian Democrats and the Moderates join and vote in favour of it in this House.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-255	Madam President, I would like As I said, I have to hand over this question to Camilla Brodin, because she is the one who is in the Committee on Economic Affairs working on these issues. They're not on my table, so unfortunately I can't give Martin Kinnunen an answer.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-256	Madam President, I would like The Government called for concrete input from the various parties, and then we really need to talk about nuclear power and less coal power and for an increased research budget in the EU, for example on fourth generation nuclear power, as the Liberals have long proposed. It's concrete input. Madam President, I would like This is just over two weeks before the European elections, all debates should be about the role of the European Union and how the various parties can work in the European Union and with the European Union. Most parties here claim to be environmental parties. In fact, however, only one party clearly declares the need for an EU-wide CO2 tax in order for us to have a chance at all to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and that is the Liberals. At the end of the day, all the other parties are more concerned about giving the EU a certain level of taxation than they are for the climate and global warming; we can only say that. Madam President, I would like Sweden must work to ensure that the EU is a guarantor of the Paris Agreement and to show the way forward in the climate work. I think we all agree on that. If we are serious about all these words here today, if we are to be an example in climate work and if climate work is to be the focus of all the work we do, it is not good enough not to look to the whole and suddenly cry out for more subsidised diesel for the farmers as compensation for last year's drought. On the contrary, it is pouring gasoline, or diesel, on an already operating fire. It will neither help the farmers as it actually increases the risk of more dry years or meet the understanding of the common man that he should invest in electric cars and public transport.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-259	Madam President, I would like I thank all Members for a good debate. Let me repeat that what we will go forward with, in addition to the climate action plan, is to review all relevant legislation so that it will be in line with the climate law. I hope and expect all parties in this House to work together to achieve the goals that we have set together: to have net zero emissions by 2045 and to reduce emissions in the transport sector by 70% by 2030. It is very ambitious, but I am absolutely convinced that we will be able to do it. We should not build ourselves into inefficient additional fossil dependence, for it will go against our goals. The energy agreement gives us long-termness and cost-effectiveness, and I hope we will stick to it. I look forward to concrete proposals, not just criticism. Come with your own climate action plans that deliver!
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-279	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked the EU Minister whether he intends to work for a fundamental reform of state aid rules to make it easier for Member States to provide support for measures to curb climate change and save biodiversity, and whether he intends to promote environmental protection and climate action as explicit grounds for exemptions from state aid rules. The work in the government is distributed so that it is I who should answer the interpellation. As stated in paragraph 34 of the January Agreement, the Government shall work towards reforming the EU's rules on state aid and other support schemes so as to contribute to, and not discourage, a fossil-free society and the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The government will thus work to ensure that the future state aid framework enables Member States to use measures that involve offensive efforts in the field of climate change. This also means that the government will work towards phasing out climate-damaging support. The government has already started – in dialogue with other Member States – this work. As the honourable Member knows, the review of State aid rules is a comprehensive process. Under the EU's better regulation rules, it is implemented in two stages. The first step is to identify which parts of the regulatory framework need to be reformed. The relevant changes are then identified before the reform of the regulatory framework enters into force on 1 January 2023. The government will take a very active part in this work. However, the exact details of the regulatory framework that need to be made in order to achieve the climate targets is too early to say, as the work has just begun.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-282	Madam President, I would like For all of us who believe that the state and the public sector play a crucial role in the transition to a sustainable and fair society, the EU's so-called state aid rules are a major problem. In practice, EU state aid rules are a ban on state aid and a ban on compensation or aid for certain activities, which may be certain energy sources and so on. I personally believe that state aid, or public aid in general, is incredibly important. We know that it is renewable energy we want, and it may need to be subsidised in an initial period. It is the same with sustainable food and plant-based food versus animals. We need to eat more vegetarian. At the same time, plant-based food is something that does not really exist on a large scale yet and that may need to be subsidised for a period of time so that it can be established on the market. This is prohibited under Articles 107 to 109 of the EU Treaty. For our Swedish part, this has become a major problem in several contexts. For example, we have our tax exemption for biogas, biodiesel and ethanol, which will expire in about a year's time. It is likely that we must not retain this tax exemption because the European Union considers it to be a so-called state aid. We are discussing in the area of traffic the importance of being able to have lower rail charges or perhaps no charges at all. It is the same for shipping – if it is sustainable, you may not have to pay fairway and pilotage fees. But then we are told that such a reform would be contrary to the EU's state aid rules. Can we set up new state-owned companies or financial institutions, such as a green climate investment bank? Some argue that this is contrary to EU state aid rules. All of this, Madam President, creates great uncertainty and makes it harder for us politicians to act at a time when we need political decisions and political leadership for the climate more than ever. What is stated in the EU state aid rules today is that there are a number of exceptions that can be made where states can enter and, for example, provide subsidies, tax reductions or similar for things and activities. This can be about when there is a natural disaster or about achieving regional or social policy objectives. Good, but environmental protection and climate action are not subject to derogations from EU state aid rules, making it difficult to act for the environment and climate. I note that the government will work towards a change in EU state aid rules. That is very good, but this is not a new question. It has been around for a long time, and there have been problems with it for a long time. It is good that the government has woken up, but I would like to know, for example, how this change will be pursued, for example with regard to the exceptions. Does the Minister mean that climate action and environmental protection should be the reason for exceptions to EU state aid rules?
i-GYaYCrSVsfdWF7zwfRExdG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens H olm, for the opportunity to talk about this important issue! Nevertheless, let us be careful about how things stand. In fact, I am surprised by Jens Holm's description, given that he is a knowledgeable and experienced politician who has also been sitting in the European Parliament and should therefore know this. It is already possible to obtain exceptions for investments in renewable energy and subsidies, for example. I know this because I have been Minister of Energy under the previous government and have been involved in increasing support for renewable energy in particular by nearly 90% during the previous parliamentary term, as part of the energy agreement. Why did we do this? Because there is room in the rules to invest in what is clean and which today is not able to overcome the market threshold on its own terms. This has been extremely successful in Sweden. This is evident not least in the rather powerful increase in wind power on land in Sweden. Despite the fact that we have had a number of nuclear reactors closed in recent decades, we are a major net exporter of electricity thanks to these investments, which have been possible through the electricity certification system that we have approved under state aid rules. Is this enough? The answer is no. That is why the government has agreed with the Center Party and Liberals that, now that we have ongoing reform of the state aid rules, we should go in to ensure that the space is extended so that we can take the measures that we need to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and to ensure that Sweden is a leading country and becomes a fossil-free welfare country. For it is extremely important that we can show other parts of the world that this is quite possible: it is possible to live without burning coal, oil and gas while living good and free. This is particularly important at a time when we have politicians, both in Europe and in the United States, who say that it cannot be done and that we must either sacrifice jobs, growth or the environment. They choose to sacrifice the environment and climate. We don't want to do that. We want to show that it really doesn't have to be that way at all. When this work begins, it is therefore important that Sweden is one of the countries, together with others, that are pushing ahead. The honourable Member asked how it should be done. It should be done exactly as you always do when you want results. If you are content with having a lot of opinions, a lot of opinions and the right sign, then you are content to just talk. But if you, as this government, want to achieve results, you create alliances. Then we go together with large countries and small countries and ask: what can be done to ensure that conditions are in place and rules that do not unduly distort competition? Not least we, as a small country, have an enormous interest in the fact that the large countries of the European Union cannot use their large muscles to distort competition and thus knock out companies in other EU countries. But we still need to open up an opportunity here to ensure that together – the public, government, parliament and the state, together with the private business community and academia – we can find solutions that enable us to change our way of life, so that we do not depend on fossil energy for our freedom and for our welfare.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-292	Madam President, I would like I and the Minister for Economic Affairs fully agree that we should switch to a fully renewable energy system and that we must achieve our climate targets. We in the Left Party want to move faster in the field of climate than the government wants. It is not at all that the Minister insinuates. And I don't know if it was a pass to me that it was a matter of placards. It is a very well thought-out policy on the part of the Left Party. That is also why I am highlighting the issue of EU state aid rules, which is a technically complex issue. But I think it needs to be examined politically. Then I am a little surprised when the Minister says that there are already exceptions for environmental protection and climate action today. I cannot find these exceptions in the EU treaties. Neither do any of the experts with whom I have spoken. But the Minister is happy to tell you where these exceptions are. It is still a major problem that you have to apply, notify, to the Commission. And it is the Commission that decides on derogations. We have received a number of exemptions for reductions in, for example, renewable fuels. However, I suppose some things need to be taken into account, because the criteria that exist today relate to natural disasters, regional policy and social objectives. There the government has succeeded well. However, it is only for a short period that these tax reductions have been achieved. Next year, they expire. That is why I think it would be best if it were absolutely clear in the EU Treaty, or in a protocol to the Treaty in any case, that countries in the field of the environment and climate can take precedence. It cannot be claimed to be contrary to EU state aid rules. Is that how the minister thinks, too? I would also like to know how the government is pushing a change in EU state aid rules. I have been on the EU Board for eight years, and I have never actually seen the government report on the EU Board that the government is pursuing a reform of the EU state aid rules. Minister for Industry, when did you last raise this issue at European level? The Minister is making such a big deal out of the fact that it is important to form alliances here, which I very much agree with. It is important to build alliances with other progressive countries that want to move forward in the field of environment and climate change. Therefore, it would be interesting to hear which countries we have with us today on this issue. Finally, the electrification of the fleet of vehicles and the massive expansion of battery production, hydrogen production and a hydrogen network will not be allowed to take place without any form of State aid, either at EU level or at Member State level. I see this as a concrete area in which EU state aid rules simply clash with the electrification and investment in sustainable transport that we need to do in the future. Does the Minister also think that this is just one of those areas where state aid rules are currently setting the hook, or does the Minister think that it is working well as it is when it comes to electrifying the fleet of vehicles?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-299	Madam President, I would like No, if we had thought that the state of affairs was exactly as they should be, we would not have addressed this in the January agreement together with the Center Party and the Liberals, which are very central to government policy. We believe that this regulatory framework, now that it is being opened up to reform, should of course allow more opportunities to take, for example, climate action. It is necessary and good, also to allow countries like Sweden, who want to go forward and who want to be on the front line, to show that it is perfectly possible to combine jobs and growth with a good life to live and to do so in a way that is good for the environment and the climate. This is not something that we are all aware of in a moment, but it is quite possible to do. What I turned against was not that we should pursue this; we will. We're making alliances. I have experience from the TTE Council, that is, the ministers dealing with energy and sometimes also some climate-related issues. Energy is so central to being able to reset. 70% of climate gas emissions come directly or indirectly from the energy sector and energy use. Often we are alliances with countries like the Netherlands, Denmark, Germany on some issues and France on some other issues. Basically, it is a question of creating an alliance so that a majority is achieved and so that changes can be made. However, I do not really share Jens Holm's so night-black picture of what you can and cannot do. I am a very pragmatic politician and a result-oriented politician. Jens Holm is right that in principle state aid is prohibited, but there are a large number of exceptions that are not only temporary. I will give an example that I can very well do and worked with a lot during the last parliamentary term. This applies to the current electricity certification system that is in place to support and generate renewable electricity. It was already established in 2003, i.e. eight after we joined the European Union, and is still there. According to the current agreement, the energy agreement, it will remain for quite a long time. It has increased the availability of renewable electricity in Sweden in a fantastic way. In the last parliamentary term alone, we managed to increase aid by a further 90%. It is clear that it is full in accordance with the rules that apply, otherwise we would not have been able to do so. So there are such examples. Is that enough? No, it doesn't. I think Jens Holm puts his finger on a number of things. As far as electrification of the transport sector is concerned, a great deal is already being done. But that's not enough. We will have to accelerate this work. When it comes to establishing your own battery production, I will say the following. Storage is a central part of being able to change our society. As long as we have the order where electricity is to be produced and consumed exactly in the second, we naturally have problems when we have very much weather-dependent production. That is why we need this type of storage in the transport sector for electric cars, but also in our electrical system. That is why, together with private initiatives, the government has, of course, worked hard against the European Commission. I understand that there is a very big issue in the European Commission itself to get this type of European production. Today we are totally dependent on Asia for this, and that cannot be the case in the long run. We cannot trade oil dependence from the Middle East for a battery dependency from Asia with everything it entails in terms of social, environmental and climate problems.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-305	Madam President, I would like This is an incredibly important issue. Of course, as the Minister says, there are exceptions. But the problem is that it is something that a Member State has to apply for, and it takes a long time for the Commission to examine. The Commission is examining this from a market and competition perspective. It is nevertheless the interests of the market that are superior. This market perspective hovers like an unsightly spirit, I think, over us politicians. Can we do this or not for Europe? When this uncertainty exists, we tend to retire and not do things. This applies to net renewable energy billing. Did we get to do it or not? Was it state aid or not? The Minister may remember the energy efficiency programme PFE. Some said it was state aid. The removal of charges for trains and shipping is considered to be State aid. As far as renewable fuels – biogas, ethanol and biodiesel – are concerned, I certainly do not hope that our tax reduction will disappear next year. We must fight in Brussels. This is the problem. We are forced to put a lot of energy into arguing that this is fully compatible with the market. We should just have to go straight ahead with the environment and the climate and know that doing so is not a problem at all, because the EU should affirm that countries reduce their emissions and switch to sustainable and fair societies. Madam President, I would like I am relatively satisfied with the answers I have received. They mean that the government should act to reform state aid rules from an environmental and climate perspective. However, I would like to see the government and ministers act much more aggressively, so that it is addressed at all relevant meetings at European level. It's not happening today, so there's a lot more to do.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-308	Madam President, I would like The fact that a Member is relatively satisfied with the answers from the Government must surely be seen as a high score. It's not that often you hear it, no matter what the answer is. Basically, I think that the differences are not so big in Sweden, at least not between the government and the Left Party, in the view that we have to change. Then there may sometimes be differences in how you want to do this. I think many people have understood that the government wants to make Sweden the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It has to do with the need to reset. We need to do this in a concrete and step-by-step way, so that our competitiveness, the jobs we have and the growth we have can be maintained and perhaps even developed and become more sustainable. But we also know that there are parties in both Sweden and the European Union, not least in the European elections before us, which of course do not want this at all. In that landscape, of course, we will seek alliances to carry out these changes. I'd still like to raise a warning finger. I think that Jens Holm makes it a little easy for himself when he says that it should be up to the Member States. The risk is that countries with much greater economic muscles will go in and distort the competition for their own industries' well-being and woes, competing out those of us who want to do a lot and mask what, for example, environmental and climate action, although it basically is not. I think it's important that there's still someone to make sure it's true. At the same time, as I said, we must act to increase the scope for making real efforts for the environment and climate. Those of us who want to show the world that it is perfectly possible to change in a pragmatic and results-oriented way and at the same time develop the welfare society should also be able to do so.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-313	Mr President, I would like to Lina Nordquist has asked me if I would like to work to give parents the right to temporary parental allowance to teach school staff vital knowledge and whether I am considering any other solution to how parents should be given the opportunity to teach school staff about the children's need for self-care. Finally, she asks when families can expect a new regulatory framework. Like all children, children with chronic diseases have the right to an equivalent education in a safe environment. A municipality shall ensure that all school-obliging children in the municipality are allowed to attend school and shall offer children over one year of preschool to the extent required by the parent's secular work or studies or if the child has a need of his/her own due to the family's situation in general. This applies regardless of whether the child is in need of self-care or not. Preschool and school have a responsibility to help children with their self-care, such as taking their medicine when they are in the business. It is the health care system that determines which action can be carried out as self-care in each individual case. The ability to get help with self-care in preschool and school is a prerequisite for children and parents to feel safe and for parents to reconcile family life and work. The temporary parental allowance allows parents to repensate for lost work income when the parent temporarily has to give up work in a number of different situations when the child is sick or needs to visit a doctor. Combining work and parenthood can be particularly challenging for parents of children with chronic illness or disability. Often the parent is needed on the spot at school or preschool to train staff around the individual child's illness and self-care. This can be difficult, especially for those parents who do not have flexible working hours. How this is best resolved needs to be further explored. It may be within the temporary parental allowance or within another benefit. There is no ready-made answer today. Lina Nordquist also raises the family week in this context. The family week, when fully built, will mean that five days per year will be left to the respective guardians who work and who have children between 4 and 16 years of age. In a first step, three days will be left per guardian. For the sole guardian, in a first step six days will be left and in full extension ten days. However, the purpose of family week is not to remedy the problems we are talking about here. It should be able to be used when the preschool or school is closed during holidays, planning days or the like. It is too many families, perhaps most, challenging to reconcile family life and working life. In addition, having a child with a chronic illness, with the anxiety and amount of care that it can entail, does not reduce that challenge. The family week will also give these families, like other families, some extra margins, which they may so well need.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-318	Mr President, I would like to Being the parent of a child with chronic illness means becoming a carer in addition to being a mother or a father. This may involve close contact with the health care system. This may force you to go down in working hours, although you may not really want to. This also means, of course, many years of anxiety. Moreover, in addition to all of this, parents may need to teach the staff in preschool and then in school about the child's illness each time the child changes school, class manager or teacher. Of course, this may take many days. For example, if a child has diabetes, it is not even enough to measure blood sugar and give insulin, but an adult must also recognise the child's symptoms and be able to figure out exactly what is the right dose every time the child is going to eat. For parents, it is a matter of being able to convey knowledge about their child's needs and the particular situation of their child. But according to Försäkringskassan's new practice, the child, as the Government knows, is miraculously healthy on his way to preschool or school. It has not been so before, but the new assessment of the past few years means that a child who can be in preschool or in school is not sick in the sense of Försäkringskassan. That's why parents can't take out vabs either. Instead, they must take vacations, try to flex – and thus use the leisure time that they have and that should be used for everything else in life – or be on leave without pay. Of course, this must not be the case. That is why, Mr President, I put the question to Minister Strandhäll, if the Government is willing to work to give parents the right to temporary parental allowance – vab – in order to support both the child and the school staff these days and to give this knowledge, which can be of direct importance to life. I also asked to know if the Government is considering any other possibility of being free from work than vab for these parents. Finally, I asked when parents and families can expect a new set of rules and new practices which are better than today's. Mr President, I would like to I am relieved and hopeful about the answer I have received – Minister Strandhäll sees the importance of every child getting the help it needs in preschool and school. But I do not really hear any answers to the questions I have asked. It's nice to care. This is very important, especially for an elected representative. But in those of us who have power, consideration must always be linked to action. I therefore ask the question again and hope to understand better. Does the Government believe that temporary parental allowance may be one of the ways to go for these families? Otherwise, does the Government consider other wages, such as contact days? Finally, I realize that it is, of course, an estimate, but when can parents not have to take a vacation and be without pay to help their sick child?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lina Nordquist, for a very important interpellation! I'm pretty familiar with the background to it. I have also met on several occasions representatives of not least parents' organisations who have children suffering from chronic diseases and disabilities. They have pointed to this particular problem. It is incredibly important to point out that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has made a different assessment and changed its application in this case. Previously, temporary parental benefit was granted in these cases. It is based on a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court. In fact, such a matter was conducted all the way. The judges first in the Administrative Court and in the Administrative Court of Appeal went in different directions on the matter. When the matter was finally settled in the Supreme Administrative Court, it occurred in such a way that it prompted the Social Insurance Agency to change its practice of granting temporary parental benefit in those cases. The honourable Member may be aware that during the last parliamentary term we set up an investigation to look at the whole of parental insurance. The ambition in that investigation – which is completed and handed over – was to have time to look at the temporary parental allowance. This was one of the questions that were included in what to look at. Unfortunately, the investigation did not have time to look at the temporary parental allowance. That is why we must now seek a new solution to the problem. We have to think, just as the honourable Member is concerned, in new ways. What initiatives can we take during this term of office? I tend to stress in these cases that health care and school have a great responsibility. Then, much of that responsibility has been passed on to parents, relatives and sometimes to the person who is personally affected in communicating about his or her own care. Formally linked to the legislation we have today, health care and school have a responsibility here. I also have a great deal of respect for the conversations I have had, not least with many worried parents in these cases. You feel that it doesn't really work as intended in many cases and that you're not safe with it. As a result, parents play an enormous role in creating security in the transition. I also know when I received a question at some point at General Question Time about this that I referred to the fact that we are working to get the family week in place. It is part of the January Agreement that we have concluded together. However, as I did in my interpellation response, I would like to say that the root causes of the family week are not to resolve this situation, if I may put it that way. But it will allow more parents to have greater flexibility and also the parents of these children. I am prepared to look further at the question. I am also prepared to think about other solutions to provide security in these situations. I wish we'd already had time for that.
i-WF8Q3invcwW5BVvcXdzvWJ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, once again, Minister. I am pleased that the Government wants to investigate and try to find better solutions than today's to how parents of children with chronic illness or disability can be present at school or preschool when needed. I will continue to follow the issue, and I hope that a solution can be found to this. I would also like to thank the Minister for what he has just said about family week. On 28 March, to which the Government refers, the Government and I held a discussion on families with children who have a chronic illness. Then the Minister said, "Then, of course, you have to ask yourself in the future whether there are changes in vab that we should focus on or the excellent family week." ..................................................... Now I'm not going to hang up on the word excellent. But that attitude troubled me at the time. Indeed, through the January agreement, we Liberals have accepted the introduction of three family days. Then that's how it's gonna be. The agreement is to be kept. However, parents of chronically ill children should not have to use the days that others can use to be on the beach or go to the movies to sit in school in meetings with school staff. Nor can the same number of days be sufficient, regardless of the disease the child suffers from or how many children with chronic illness have the same family. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Government said here in the speaker's chair and also wrote in the interpellation response that the purpose of the family week is not to remedy the problems we are talking about here. It should be used when preschool and school are closed. I am very grateful that it has been said. Getting family life and working life together is challenging for many families. Of course, it is worse for those families who have one or more children with great needs and chronic diseases. Thank you very much for that turn. It's important. Can the Government promise us Liberals that it is the new approach to this issue? Family week should not be used for meetings of sick children with school staff.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-342	Mr President, I would like to Let me be very clear on this point. Like many other parents, the family week is intended to provide greater flexibility and opportunity for parents to reconcile work and family life. It is also very clear, as I also say here, that it is not the basic purpose of the family week that, as the honourable Member says, parents should sit in meetings with the school for quite different reasons. That's it. We must, of course, seek further solutions to the problems that have arisen in relation to the changed application of the rules on temporary parental allowance. We must try to meet the needs expressed so clearly by parents who have children with chronic diseases or disabilities, regardless of the legislation in place for school or health care. I thank you for an important and good interpellation debate so far.
i-ADRcFJirnvU1bdc4WBqEZc	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. Of course, I cannot help but take the opportunity, as I stand here, to emphasise once again what I think we agree on. Someone in the classroom, on the school trip or break needs to have a basic understanding of the needs of sick children, their symptoms, being able to stick their finger, interpreting answers and giving the right dose of medicine. Parents should not have to bear the full burden for this to happen. It must become part of our social safety net. We Liberals also want it to be possible to wriggle at meetings between school and social services if a child, for example, has very difficult social problems. I see that we may differ from one part to another in terms of solutions, will and clearly so far. I also see opportunities for consensus and for new and better regulations. I think we can build on that and create something that can be really good. It is my firm opinion that the conditions of these families must be changed. I am convinced that in a country such as ours, with a democracy such as ours and with resources such as ours, it is possible to find a solution to this. It is needed for the parents' sake, for the school staff and above all for the children's sake.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-350	Mr President, I would like to That is absolutely the case; we obviously need to look at a sensible and appropriate solution for this. At the same time, I think it is incredibly important that we, as politicians, are clear to the principals responsible for both health care and school, because it is basically the case that preschool and school have a responsibility to help children with their self-care. This applies, for example, to what we talked about, to take your medicine, stick your finger and so on. The employer also has a responsibility to ensure that the employee has the necessary skills. Of course, it must not be confused, whether we find solutions that allow us to meet the needs of parents, too, to train or talk with their staff at an introductory stage. So we can achieve a full clarity and balance in these parts. I thank the honourable Member for a good and important interpellation debate, and I look forward to working on it. I am also sure that the honourable Member will come back and check it out.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-354	Mr President, I would like to I apologize for being a little late; we had expected the other interpellations to take a little longer. Ludvig Aspling has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs in which respect she works in the feminist foreign policy theory when Sweden supports states whose authorities persecute LGBT people. Ludvig Aspling has also asked her how she intends to work to ensure that Tanzania, Afghanistan, Ethiopia and Somalia reform their LGBT law in a more liberal direction and the actual impact on the LGBT law of these countries I believe the world has had so far. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The feminist foreign policy gives me and the government a powerful tool to promote human rights, including sexual and reproductive health and rights, and for those groups that are structurally subordinate and discriminated against. The implementation of feminist foreign policy is always based on the challenges that exist in the current context, i.e. in the country that it operates. LGBTQ people are subjected to human rights violations in all parts of the world, including through discrimination, threats of violence and violence. As regards development cooperation, the Riksdag has stated that the overall objective is to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression. This makes development cooperation an important tool for LGBT people's enjoyment of human rights internationally. Sweden is an important player and operates globally, regionally and locally. Dialogue and advocacy are important ways of working. Sida's implementation partners work to assist with, among other things, expertise in the legislative work in partner countries, and so do UN actors such as the High Commissioner's Office for Human Rights. Through development cooperation, Sweden is building a broad range of relationships with actors from different parts of society, which contributes to Sweden's ability to pursue issues such as human rights. In several countries, Sweden's assistance goes largely to civil society and multilateral partners. The situation of LGBT people is very difficult in the countries that Ludvig Aspling lifts, and we must work long-term to achieve a positive change. Sometimes it is a question of helping to slow down negative development. In Tanzania we see a worrying decline in democracy and human rights. Impact work towards a wide range of actors such as civil society organisations, religious communities, public institutions, politicians and journalists is needed and takes a long time. Sweden supports organisations, including UN organisations, that work for LGBTQ people's rights in the country, among other things, with the aim of building capacity for the local organisations working on these issues. Swedish aid to Somalia is channelled mainly through the UN and the World Bank and aims to strengthen systems and institutions that maintain and guarantee respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law and strengthen institutional capacity for accountability. This should of course also be guaranteed to LGBTQ people. The democratic reforms, including the new Civil Society Act implemented in Ethiopia, have increased the opportunities for liberalisation. But a change of attitude may take time. To better support democratic reforms in the country, the government has therefore recently decided to extend development cooperation with Ethiopia by SEK 200 million for the remaining two years of the strategy period. In the dialogue with Sweden, the government points out that the situation for LGBT people's enjoyment of human rights is not sufficient. But otherwise there is a positive development in Ethiopia which we strongly support. In Afghanistan, sexual acts between persons of the same sex are surrounded by strong stigmatisation and are punished with long prison sentences. However, since the introduction of a criminal justice reform in 2017, they are no longer, as the interpeller claims, subject to the death penalty. We continue to work actively for progressive social development in Afghanistan, where human rights work is a key task. To stop this would weaken the institutions that are emerging, which would hardly benefit the country's LGBTQ people.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-365	Mr President, I would like to The countries that receive the most assistance from Sweden are Tanzania, Afghanistan, Ethiopia and Somalia. A large part of the support goes precisely to support public authorities and state appliances. At the same time, authorities in these four countries are carrying out rather severe and even statutory repression against LGBT people – something that is described in a hair-brushing way in the State-Sponsored Homophobia report published by ILGA. In Tanzania, the person who commits a voluntary homosexual act risks life imprisonment, while in Ethiopia the same act can give 15 years in prison. In Somalia and Afghanistan, the situation is a little more uncertain. There has been a criminal law reform in Afghanistan, as the Minister for Development points out, but since there is a great deal of arbitrariness in the application of law there, experts still claim that the death penalty is a risk. In the United States, President Trump has recently launched a diplomatic offensive called global pushed decriminalized homosexuality on how to plan to use aid as a tool to achieve this goal. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats have proposed a moral floor for aid recipients, which would mean that aid money could never finance an authority while oppressing and committing human rights violations. Of course, we understand the dilemma that arises between, on the one hand, being in place and influencing and, on the other hand, the risk of funding things that are not good. However, we see very little that suggests that any of these countries are changing their attitude towards the rights of sexual minorities. An exception could be the new Afghan criminal law, but it depends a little on how it is implemented and whether it actually becomes a reality. The difference between how we look at these issues and how the government parties view them boils down to a classic conflict between conservatism on the one hand and left-wing liberalism on the other. Conservativeism claims that there are absolute values that apply to all people regardless of their origin, nationality or religious affiliation. The government parties, on the other hand, base their world view on multiculturalism, which is based on the idea that all cultures are equally worthy and that behaviours and traditions based on religion or culture, for example, cannot be criticized by outsiders. This results, for example, in the fact that LGBT people in Afghanistan are reportedly still being sentenced to long prison sentences, or even death, by a judiciary financed by Sida and European Union money – something that we see as totally unacceptable.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-373	I would also like to ask whether the Minister for Development sees any sign that these countries are moving in a more positive direction. In Afghanistan we have seen a potentially positive development, but if the Minister for Development can stick to the other three countries: do we see any chance of a positive development there?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-374	Mr President, I would like to I have to start by saying that I think the overall change we are now seeing in the world is unfortunately going the other way. More and more countries are becoming more and more authoritarian and working to restrict the human rights of minorities and people working politically in opposition, but also for journalists and the open conversation. This also applies, of course, to a number of our aid countries. In Afghanistan we see a small sign of a minor change. In Ethiopia, we generally see greater freedom and an increased opportunity for an open public debate. There are also examples of positive developments. I think this conversation is also a positive development. Otherwise, SD has shown a very negative attitude towards LGBTQ people and minorities. It has been against virtually all the reforms in this area that Parliament has decided in recent years. We have many examples of this. For example, leading people like Björn Söder have compared homosexuality with paedophilia. If we see a turnaround in the Swedish Democrats in this perspective, it is an extremely positive and unforeseen development that I must say I strongly support. With regard to the United States, which Ludvig Aspling also mentions, they have, of course, gained a bad reputation in terms of aid in recent years when Trump has worked to limit the rights of girls and women and also wants to reduce the aid budget. However, this has not been fully achieved, especially the latter. I met with the head of Usaid, Mark Green, a few weeks ago, and it has managed to maintain a decent budget at the same level as before, despite the efforts of the administration and government to limit it. We also work closely with Swedish aid organisations and Usaid in a number of areas. What Ludvig Aspling refers to when it comes to the work of LGBT people is what I understand an individual ambassador who has made a positive move and wants the US to push the issue of changing legislation in the world. However, it does not appear to have support in the administration. We have asked the administration in Washington, and they say that they are not planning any initiatives and that there is no money to do anything in this area. Unfortunately, Sweden is allowed to continue to pursue LGBTQ people's rights without strong support from the USA. But, of course, we would welcome a change there too.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-380	Mr President, I would like to It is still the case that the United States is the world's largest donor of aid. They give more money than any other country. Of course, I do not have the same personal contacts as the Minister for Development. I find it difficult to comment on what is being said between the US authorities. I can only rely on what we read in the media. It is true, as the Minister for Development says, that more and more states are becoming more and more authoritarian and that we see a generally negative development. That's right. But it is also the case that these countries receive more and more aid. As far as the income from donors is concerned, there is not always a clear link between a country acting in a way that we cannot accept and ending the flow of money, which we think is a tool that should be used to a greater extent. Tanzania is an excellent example, but there are more. I thought we should look a little at the difference between protecting these people from attacks by civil society or from other people and protecting them from the state. There's a very big difference. In one case, if LGBTQ people are subjected to discrimination or violence in society in general, it is not always the state apparatus has the opportunity to go in and control it. These states often do not have very good control over their own territory, sometimes even over their own judicial system. But what we are talking about here are states whose public state apparatus in its official criminal code states that people who commit, for example, a homosexual act should be sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment or life. These countries still receive huge amounts of money from Sweden, even though this is something that they could change with a pen stroke. I am not saying that it would necessarily solve the situation completely, but it would still be a way for them to show that these traditions that still exist are something that they are trying to improve. It is this tool that the Minister for Development does not seem willing to use. I also find it doubtful when the Minister for Development says that we are starting from the current context. I interpret this a little bit as having to take into account what a particular country thinks about these issues when deciding, for example, what requirements to make. We consider this to be very doubtful. There must be a limit that Sweden draws where we can no longer be involved in funding a particular project or authority. Take the Afghan police, for example. I think it is the best example of this. The Afghan police are well known for systematically raping children and keeping children as sex slaves. Everyone knows this that has insight into how Afghanistan works. It is a police authority that has not been very active in upholding the rights enshrined in the new Women's Rights Act, the EVAW Act. The UN has stated this, and it is also well known. The Afghan Police Authority is not an appropriate recipient of aid money – not only because it imprisons LGBT people but also for many other reasons. That is precisely what is at the heart of this interpellation. We believe that the West must be prepared to close the crane when one reaches a certain limit. Is there such a limit, I would like to ask the Minister for Development, when you also feel that now is the time, now that we can no longer finance, for example, the Afghan police? What is it the Afghan police should have to do before you consider the measure to be heaped?
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-392	Mr President, I would like to I do not really think that Ludvig Aspling answers my question about whether SD has really reached some kind of floor that can be considered acceptable with regard to the rights of LGBT people or whether it is Ludvig Aspling personally who is pushing those questions. I see many examples of the fact that Swedish democrats do not seem to consider LGBT people's rights to be essential at all. Otherwise, there is, of course, a great deal to discuss in this area. Tanzania, I think, is an interesting example that shows how we work and how I want to work. We have now, in fact, adopted new instructions in the government yesterday regarding a new strategy for Tanzania, where we show that we are very concerned about developments there. The lack of human rights is significant, and there are also problems with the threat and imprisonment of political opponents and journalists. Therefore, in the new strategy, we want to have a closer dialogue with the country before deciding what the scope and direction of the Tanzanian aid should be in the future. If we cannot get satisfactory answers, we can end up reducing aid to Tanzania substantially, even though it is a partner for Sweden and has been so for decades.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-395	Mr President, I would like to I must stress to the Minister for Development that this interpellation is about aid. The Swedish democrats are not funded with aid money, and we do not get aid money no matter how hard we try, as we have talked about before. I do not think that I am getting a clear answer precisely as regards how to deal with these countries. The question I ask and to which I would like an answer is: Is there a limit to when it is time to turn off the crane? I asked about Afghanistan, and I asked about Tanzania. It is excellent to think about this and to plan to do so. It's great in that case. Tanzania is an excellent example of a country that should not, in fact, receive any aid money anymore, at least not to the extent that they are receiving it now. Tanzania is in a different situation from Afghanistan and other countries. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, I am particularly interested in the police department there. It receives salaries paid through the Afghan reconstruction fund to which the Swedish contribution is not earmarked. Nevertheless, they receive money through the EU as well. I wonder: Is there any limit to what the police authorities in Afghanistan can do before the Minister for Development feels that we have to turn off the crane and can no longer finance this? That's what I'm thinking. The behavior of these authorities is very bad right now. That's not good at all. That's really just what I wanted to ask you.
i-ef37b44ef9db3c02-401	Mr President, I would like to I would like to answer the question about the context. Is that how Ludvig Aspling says that depending on the situation we decide whether to pursue these issues or not? No, it is rather the case that the situation in the various countries determines how to pursue human rights issues. In some countries, such as Afghanistan, there are no organisations at all that openly push the issue of LGBT people's rights. It is not possible to do so nationally in Afghanistan. One could say that Sweden is the country that has historically made the most use of everyone when it comes to young girls going to school. We have a very extensive activity in terms of education and schools, and it is partly financed with Swedish aid money. I think it would be very unfortunate if it were to be withdrawn because it is a very archaic character of culture and an unreasonable attitude towards minorities in the rest of that country. Afghanistan is an example of a country that is extremely problematic. It has now been more or less in conflict for decades, and we do not know how long it will continue. But so far Sweden has chosen to work actively to get a positive development. We will see when we make the next policy change and how we make decisions on this issue in the future.
