i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-2	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by congratulating the President on his birthday. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: Thank you very much! ) Madam President, I would like In today's globalised world, it is not uncommon for spouses or cohabiting couples to be associated with several countries. For example, one may have moved between countries. Nor is it unusual to own a dwelling in another country. For example, in the case of division of property, death or separation, the connection to several countries can make the division of property more complex. Uncertainties may arise as to which country's law on division of property shall apply. The EU has drawn attention to this and, in the context of enhanced cooperation, has adopted two Regulations on matrimonial property regimes and registered partners respectively. The Regulations apply to property regimes with cross-border implications. They create a common regulatory framework, and they are now going into Swedish legislation. Madam President, I would like We Moderates think the proposal is good. The idea of bringing together legislation on matrimonial property regimes in international situations in a law is reasonable. Nevertheless, we have tabled a follow-up motion and have a reservation. It is about how the issue of child marriage should be dealt with in Swedish legislation. Thanks to an announcement by a parliamentary majority, legislation to prevent children from being married in Sweden has been tightened up. Today, those under the age of 18 are not allowed to enter into marriage in Sweden. In addition, the possibility of obtaining an exemption from the age requirement was removed in 2014. Honorary oppression has unfortunately spread in Sweden. Everything suggests that in the last few years things have gotten worse. It is important that we in this congregation push back all forms of such oppression. Child marriage is an important one. It must be very clear to everyone who comes to Sweden that all forms of oppression in the name of honour, including marrying children away, are unacceptable and illegal in Sweden. Our Swedish legislation must in no way give legitimacy to these forces. In recent years, Parliament has approved a number of legislative amendments aimed at strengthening protection against forced marriages and child marriages. In 2014, a new forced marriage offence was introduced. This means that it is punishable to get someone to marry by taking advantage of the person's vulnerability. In the same year, the Riksdag also decided that foreign child marriages, forced marriages and so-called proxy marriages should only be recognised when there are exceptional reasons, i.e. very strong and clear reasons. In 2018, the Riksdag took further steps to mark against child marriage. The Parliament decided on a ban on recognising foreign children's marriages, regardless of what connection the persons had to Sweden when the marriage was concluded or how old they are when the matter is examined by an authority. If at least one of the persons is still a child during the trial, there shall be no exception to the prohibition. Madam President, I would like It must be an obvious starting point for all legislation and all official work that children should not be married in Sweden. Nor should the legislator signal that marriage as a minor is in any way possible. The changes proposed by the Government to the marriage code still contain wordings concerning minors and the conclusion of marriage contracts, as has also been noted in the consultation procedure. Such a formulation can continue to offend minors in Sweden who cannot or should in no way be able to enter into marriage. Therefore, on the basis of the legislator's clear ambition not to allow marriage among minors, it is reasonable to review such rules. The Government should review the legislation relating to marriage in order to investigate whether there are provisions related to minors and whether there is a continued need for such provisions in Swedish legislation. It is an important act of symbolism. It is an important marker that children should not be married in Sweden. There should be no reference to that kind of marriage in our legislation. Madam President, I would like That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 1.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-13	Madam President, I would like Do children in Sweden need to write a prenuptial agreement? If so, what children need to do so? At the end of the 1800s, namely in 1892, the age limit, from 15 to 17, for girls was raised to marry in Sweden. Later, the age limit has been raised further, to 18 years, and the possibility of exemption has been removed. What is a little interesting about the change in 1892 is the exception that was made then. Sami girls were considered to belong to another culture and therefore did not need the same protection against child marriage as ordinary Swedish girls. Today, in practice, the same thing is happening to girls who are considered by the majority society to come from a different culture. In 2016, the Finnish Immigration Service identified 132 children who were married in Sweden. But then only 80 municipalities had been investigated, and according to the Children's Ombudsman the number of darkness is large. In Malmö alone, 65 children were married. More married children should be present in the other 210 municipalities in Sweden. Moreover, it is likely that more child marriages have occurred after the inventory. Some of the children found were under the age of 15, which would even run counter to the exemption introduced for the Sami girls in the 19th century. Although we know that there were relatively many married children in Sweden in 2016 and even though the Migration Agency at least then knew where they were, the authorities have since chosen to close their eyes to the problems. Child marriages were not reversed when the law was changed. Nor has the previous legislation on forced marriage, to which the minister responsible referred, to protect children from child marriages, helped these children to obtain redress. Maria Stockhaus from the Moderates claims to want to investigate the need for children to write a prenuptial agreement. For something else the Moderates do not want in their reservation, although the speech might suggest more that they want to prevent child marriages and prenuptials for children. But Maria Stockhaus also mentioned that it was only a symbolic act. For me, it's not a symbolic act to say no to child marriage. That is definitely something we should have done a long time ago. The 132 children who were married in 2016 deserve more than symbolic acts. In Germany, more than half of the married girls were of Syrian origin. In Sweden, the Finnish Immigration Service has chosen not to disclose the origin of married children, but a qualified guess is that they come from the same cultures as the married children in Germany. These married children may have a need to write a prenup, especially when they seem to come from cultures where the husband is the owner and ruler of the family's assets. It should be added that, according to German statistics, they very often come from cultures where the Mahr is applied instead of division of property and where a woman who differs from her husband is entitled to nothing other than the sum negotiated in advance in the context of the Mahr. It should therefore be in the interests of the spouse to take the rights of the child wife into a division of property by prenuptial agreement. But is it the husband's interest we should protect? At least I don't think so. The text already in the legal text that the prenuptial agreement should be signed by the guardian of the child becomes strikingly similar to the procedure for the Mahr. There the parents settle with the husband how much the girl should receive in compensation if the husband no longer wants to be married to her. We do not need an investigation to see what there is a need for children to be able to write a prenuptial agreement. Instead, we should remove the possibility of tricking girls into their lives and assets by removing the possibility for children to enter into both marriage and prenuptial agreement. Since Parliament's order does not allow us to just go in and remove parts of the text in a bill from the government, which in this case might have been what you would have liked to have done, we want the government to delete this text instead. In our Sweden, no children should be married, regardless of their origin. This is not a symbolic act; it is a fact. The exception for Sami girls was removed in 1915. Now is the time to really remove the exceptions for all other children. I would like to support our Amendment No 1 in paragraph 1. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of this.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-24	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in its entirety and therefore rejecting all motions. We are here today to debate the civil committee's report on the property regimes of spouses and cohabiting couples in international situations, which is a report on the Government's proposal for, among other things, a new law on matrimonial property regimes in specific international situations. The debate is not about whether or not we should allow child marriage in Sweden. That is not allowed, and we all agree on that. It is becoming increasingly common for spouses or cohabiting couples to be associated with another country. For example, they may have been resident or have property abroad. In the case of division of property or any other matter relating to the property regime of spouses or cohabiting couples, links with several countries may lead to both practical and legal difficulties. Therefore, regulating which country's laws apply to property regimes in international situations is both good and wise. This may, for example, involve where and according to which country's law a division of property is to be made in the event of a death or separation. As we have heard before, the EU has adopted two regulations regulating these conditions. They also contain rules on marriage contracts and conflict-of-law agreements as well as on the recognition and enforcement of decisions given in another Member State. Madam President, I would like In order for the regulations to be applied in practice in Swedish law, the Government proposes additional provisions to the regulations in a new law. In order to achieve a more coherent and transparent legislation in this area, it is also proposed that existing Swedish international private and procedural rules on matrimonial property regimes in cases other than those referred to in the regulations and on cohabiting couples' property regimes should be brought together in the new law. The government also proposes a change, which has so far been the subject of most debate, in Chapter 7. Paragraph 3, second paragraph, of the Marriage Code, which provides for a prenuptial agreement. This applies, among other things, to changes in formal requirements. Today, a marriage must be both written and signed. Now it should also be dated. It is simply a practical question. It is noted that such requirements exist in international situations, and now we are also introducing this in Swedish law so that it is the same rules regardless of which prenup is entered into. In the vast majority of cases, marriage contracts in Sweden are already dated. The same paragraph of the marriage code states that a minor can also enter into a prenuptial agreement, and that is what the debate today has mostly been about. We can see that this is something out of date, and it is not something we use. But I and a majority in the committee assume that the government will look further at this issue. If you want to get married when you are 18 – you may still be only 17 years old – it will now be possible to enter into a prenuptial agreement before you turn 18 to regulate these relationships.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-31	Madam President, I would like Emma Hult said in her speech that it is not allowed for children to be married in Sweden, but that is not true. The 132 children registered as married in 2016 are still married in Sweden. It is therefore possible for children to be married in Sweden, because the government did not want to go as far as, among other things, we Swedish democrats wanted to do and actually make it illegal for children to be married in Sweden. Moreover, the fact that it is not illegal for children to be married in Sweden makes a difference all the time. In cases where a social service or school discovers that a child is married, they cannot act against this in itself. It is not illegal in itself – unless the marriage was concluded in Sweden after the law came into force. This has in no way affected these 132 children and the others who probably were here in 2016. They have not been affected at all by the new legislation that has come. One might also ask why they would have to write a prenuptial agreement if there are no children's marriages allowed in Sweden. However, this is not just the case, but there are always such small wordings in all sorts of regulations. For example, there are special rules for children who are married to receive child benefit themselves, and children who are married should have joint housing in the municipalities. The entire framework is built on the basis that children should be able to be married. At the same time, it is said that children must not be allowed to marry. Let me put it into practice on one issue. Why do they need to write prenuptials if they are not allowed to be married, which in itself is not true because they are actually allowed to be married?
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-36	Madam President, I would like I note that today you are not able to marry in Sweden until you are 18 years old. There are no exceptions to that. We fully agree that this is the way it should be. I also note that this debate is not about child marriage. We have had such a debate, and we can certainly have it again. Today, the debate is about how to regulate the property regimes that exist between two parties who have entered into marriage.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-38	Madam President, I would like What this debate is about is prenuptial agreement. The question was why children should be able to write prenuptials if children are not allowed to be married. Would it not have been much better to say that children should not be able to enter into a prenuptial agreement, since children are not allowed to be married? That would have been the natural thing to write in a bill. The natural thing would also have been to remove this text. Because things other than things about child marriage have gone very quickly when the government has treated them. For example, Afghan men have been treated without asylum grounds. Then it went really fast, so fast that the Law Council questioned whether the limit of how to create Swedish law was reached. More recently, they have acted very quickly against gambling advertising and are proponents of the gaming companies having to assume their responsibilities, because otherwise new legislation will indeed come. Even introducing market rents is something that the government seems to be very quick to do, even though it does not really want to do so. But when it comes to children and their chances of marriage and the need to write a prenuptial agreement, nothing happens. It'll take forever. The changes that have been made have only focused on the Swedish majority population not being able to marry before the age of 18. But there is nothing that has applied to, among other things, the 132 children that the Migration Agency identified in 2016. No one from the government has so far been able to answer what has really happened to these children.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-41	Madam President, I would like I can still note that this debate is not about child marriage, market rents or a number of the other issues mentioned by Mikael Eskilandersson. However, I note that a majority in the committee thinks that this is outdated and that the government should review it. But we can agree that it is not the same to enter into a prenup and to enter into a marriage. Marriage is still not allowed in Sweden until you are of age and 18 years old.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-42	Madam President, I would like Now I am the last in this debate, which may not be one of the biggest debates we have in the Committee on Civil Liberties. I think that former speakers Stockhaus and Hult have explained the matter, the property regimes of Makar and cohabiting people in international situations, in a very good way. It is therefore about EU regulations that need to boil down in Swedish legislation because they will then also be valid here. Then you have also corrected a little in our legislation, baked things together and so on for it to be done in a good way. I also understand that the Swedish Democrats are taking the opportunity to discuss things that have nothing to do with the matter. I would therefore like to point out that we have corrected Swedish legislation so that no one under the age of 18 can enter into marriage or be counted as married in Sweden from 1 January this year. If so, we are very much in agreement, and we are very happy about that. But that has nothing to do with this matter. Nor should we be led by what we hear to believe that this is some kind of back door into an opportunity to be counted as married when you are under 18 years old in Sweden, given the other legislation that we have introduced. So there is some confusion there.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-44	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start by changing my plea. Of course, I support our second reservation. Things got a little wrong this early in the morning for various reasons. I'm sorry about that. I had to ask for a reply to Elin Lundgren's speech. No, this debate is not about child marriage. But it's about parts of the marriage code. What we Moderates have exercised about in our supplementary exercise is about the marriage code. It is about the signals we send by still referring to child marriage in the marriage code. I think we went to a very reasonable level – there needs to be a review. This is also the case with the prenuptial agreement: the fact that we still refer in our legislation to marriages where children are involved is a signal. Elin Lundgren says very clearly that we agree that child marriage should not be allowed. Yes, we certainly are. We also agree that oppression of honour is not a good thing in Sweden. But it is also about going from words to deeds and showing that you really mean what you say. This government has, of course, postponed a number of legislative measures in the field of honour repression, which means that it will take longer for the people who are subject to honour repression to receive the protection they are entitled to. Here we now have an opportunity to send a signal to the government to review the marriage code so that we do not have these unfortunate references to married children in it. It is a fairly important issue. I find it very difficult to understand why the Social Democrats cannot accept such a review.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-48	Madam President, I would like It is very clear in the report that the committee assumes that, in an appropriate context, the government will review the provisions in order to review whether the wording should be amended, precisely in the light of the background set out by Mr Stockhaus here. With that, we think we have sent the signal needed. Of course, as Mr Stockhaus points out, the malevolent person can interpret this as offensive, as I think it was in their text. But I think I've explained what the background is all about. It is a matter that is not prepared in such a way that these corrections can be made. In fact, we are not really inconclusive.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-49	Madam President, I would like I don't think we're in agreement. In view of the comments made by the referral bodies, I may think that the government should have been able to make this correction even before sending the bill to Parliament. They chose not to. What the report says about the assumption by the committee and so on is not sufficiently strong. There would be a need for an announcement from the House that we want the government to now review the marriage code, so that any wording referring to married children is removed from our legislation. It is not just a matter of prenuptial agreements that can be offensive and give some support to people who still think that children should be married in Sweden. We need a complete overhaul. It is more than just the question of the prenuptial agreement that our follow-up motion is about. I still find it very difficult to understand why the government didn't remove this before they sent the bill here, despite the fact that they received signals earlier, and why you don't want to show forcefully that this is something that the Riksdag thinks is important. For me, it is very difficult, not least in view of the support that the people in Sweden who are under pressure of honour deserve from us in this House.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-51	Madam President, I would like I note, as Emma did in the last line, that this discussion is not about whether we are for or against the oppression of honour. I really believe that we are in agreement here. I stress again that we have this wording in the committee report. It could probably be that better wording can be found. But it is a question of not being prepared for this. Well, you can think about why the government didn't. What I would like to point out is that we intend to monitor this when we will make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law; then a lot of legislation will be reviewed.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-54	Madam President, I would like We were told this isn't about child marriage. But it's definitely about children's ability to write prenuptials. In its proposal, the Government states that a prenuptial agreement must be drawn up in writing, dated and signed by the spouses or future spouses. This also applies if one of them is a minor or if the marriage contract relates to property, which is to some extent subject to management under the Parental Code. However, in that case, the written consent of the guardian or administrator shall be obtained. How can it be said that this text is not aimed at children and that it is not aimed at children being able to write a prenuptial agreement? Incidentally, I would just like to add that nothing the government has done since I entered Parliament in 2014 has addressed the children who live as married people in Sweden. All legislation has focused on the fact that new child marriages will not be able to occur and that Swedes will not be able to marry before the age of 18. But nothing has been directed at the children who are already in child marriage in Sweden. The possibility of writing a prenup is obviously part of the parts that the government very much wants to preserve, because you do not take the chance to remove it when the chance exists. I find it a little scary that you read the text and think: No, we should still keep it.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-56	Madam President, I would like Now I don't have the bill, so I can't quote from it. However, I would like to recall that it says that, on the basis of the previous changes in the law, the government points out that in practice this wording has played its part. I think it is important to emphasise this. Otherwise, Eskilandersson concerns matters relating to retroactive legislation. It is a debate that we have already had in connection with another dossier. I am not going to debate it now, because this matter has to do with completely different things.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-58	Madam President, I would like Now I referred directly to the new text of the law, but I do not have in front of me what the government might say about the text. Based on what was written into the law, I find it difficult to see that this would not apply. This paragraph will apply to children who are married in Sweden today. It would thus be possible for a Swedish 17-year-old who lives in a marriage to enter into a prenup where the parents can in practice settle what she might get in the event of a divorce, just as one can within the framework of the conditions and format of some other cultures. The fact that you can do that in Sweden at all is, in my view, quite frightening. Instead, I think that the text should have been replaced by a text that says that children should not enter into marriage and therefore cannot enter into a prenuptial agreement. If they have written a prenuptial agreement, it should not be valid. Rather, as is true in most civilized countries, children who are forced into marriage after all cannot have entered into a prenuptial agreement because they are not allowed to enter into a contract. Sweden then makes exceptions so that children should have the opportunity to enter into a prenuptial agreement despite this, which is completely sick in my brain.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-62	Madam President, I would like I can say that you can get married on your 18th birthday in Sweden. Nevertheless, I assume that we agree on this and think that it should be possible for anyone who wishes to do so. So what we are discussing now is the possibility that, before such a day – something that I actually think is quite unusual – you can think about a prenuptial agreement if you like. This is about this and nothing else. I would like to emphasise once again, because one can get the impression of something else, that in Sweden we do not approve of marriages involving minors. You cannot enter into such marriages in Sweden, and Sweden does not approve of marriages that have entered into elsewhere.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-65	Madam President, I would like The KU24 report deals with motions from the general period of exercise relating to minority issues. I will talk about the Left Party's reservations about Sami rights. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 4 to establish an independent Commission of Truth. Madam President, I would like In 1977, Sweden recognized the Sami as an indigenous people. Under international law, indigenous peoples have special rights in addition to those resulting from the status of a national minority. It is about the right to self-determination and the right to land that they traditionally inhabit. The Swedish state's treatment of Sami and Sami issues is a dark story that is unknown to many even though it happened not many years ago. The Swedish majority population has systematically made it difficult for the Sami people to use land for reindeer grazing, hunting and fishing. Samer has also been used for forced labour, and they have been displaced. For a long time, the policy of the state was to divide and stigmatise the Sami. The Sami were considered only fit to live in the traditional Sami way and were prevented from farming and building permanent settlements. The children were also not allowed to attend the regular elementary school. In 1928 the Riksdag decided that the Sami who were not reindeer husbands would not have any Sami rights either. For example, they had no right to hunt and fish in the areas where their ancestors lived. In this way, the state drew a sharp line between the Sami who live in reindeer husbandry and those who support themselves in other ways. Although the rights of the Sami have been strengthened in recent decades, international bodies such as the UN and the Council of Europe repeatedly point out the shortcomings that Sweden has in relation to the rights of the Sami people as indigenous peoples and how this ongoing discrimination affects the situation of the Sami people. For example, a survey shows that two out of three Sami people say that they have been exposed to racism based on their being a Sami. This racism is now taking place – today, in Sweden. Civil Rights Defenders recommends Sweden to set up a Truth Commission. The Equality Ombudsman and the Sameting have also pointed to the need for change and called for measures that dissociate themselves from and break with colonial heritage and discriminatory structures. Of course, Sami organisations have also raised the issue. The Left Party agrees with this and believes that a Commission of Truth should be established. The Truth Commission should investigate the Swedish state's abuse of Sami and Sami human rights and propose appropriate measures to strengthen Sami status and address the historical trauma. Madam President, I would like A Truth Commission is necessary for the development of Swedish Sami policy and must be linked to compensatory and forward-looking measures and have an independent mandate. Several other countries, such as Canada, have worked with various truth and reconciliation commissions in relation to their indigenous peoples. There is very much good to learn from that work. For example, we could let the victims tell their stories and listen to them and take on board their experiences and suggestions for action. If what has not happened comes to light, old ideas of Sami will remain. That is why we need a forward-looking Commission of Truth that can work with an independent mandate and also make clear proposals. It's time for the Sami to get an official apology. Madam President, I would like The UN's Committee on Racial Discrimination has repeatedly criticised Sweden for shortcomings in the rights of Sami people as indigenous peoples. In 2013, Sweden was criticised for not taking sufficient account of the Sami villages in connection with mining establishments. During the last review in spring 2018, the Committee strongly criticised the fact that Sweden had not achieved any results in this area since 2013. The 2007 UN Declaration of Indigenous Peoples sets out a minimum level of how indigenous issues should be addressed in the various countries. The emphasis of the declaration is on the right to self-determination. Sweden supports the indigenous declaration but, although it has been ten years since it was adopted, has not yet been able to implement it. It's embarrassing. Madam President, I would like In anticipation of Sweden's implementation of the indigenous declaration, I and the Left Party believe that the measures and changes affecting the Sami should, as far as possible, be decided by the Sami organisations themselves. For example, we believe that it is a matter of fundamental importance for the Association itself to appoint its President. We also want to ratify ILO 169, the Convention on Indigenous Peoples. It is high time, and it would show that the beautiful words are matched by active action. If you are serious about what you say, that is what is needed in the future: more active action and fewer fine words.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-79	Madam President, I would like First of all, of course, I would like to emphasise that I support all the reservations expressed by the Liberals in this report. However, for time winning, I only agree to reservation 3, paragraph 6. Madam President, I would like The national minorities Sami, Swedish Finns, Roma, Jews and tornadoes have a long history in our country. They have all been subjected to an assimilation policy which has meant that they have been forbidden to speak their own language. They have not had the right to practise their culture, and they do not have the right to their own heritage. This is the basis for the need for a specific minority policy, a policy that protects national minorities. The aim of minority policy is to protect national minorities, to strengthen their ability to influence and to support their historic claim to live their lives. Minority languages must be kept alive. The individual's ability to use his or her own language in contact with authorities must therefore be strengthened. Madam President, I would like We Liberals are in favour of the fact that there is now legislative regulation that municipalities and county councils should adopt targets and guidelines for their minority policy work. This provides better conditions for the long-term nature of local work that is currently lacking in many parts of our country. However, the regulation is lacking in two vital parts. First of all, the objectives and guidelines should also indicate how the activities should be monitored. Without such mechanisms, these documents risk becoming mere shelf heaters. If the requirement for objectives and guidelines is to be meaningful, the policy documents also need to be closely followed up and constantly reported by. Furthermore, there is no regulation to ensure that the objectives and guidelines are politically decided in the country. As the objectives and guidelines aim to meet the municipality's minority political commitments, they should also be decided by elected representatives. If this is then to be done in the municipal council, municipal board, other council or other political body, of course, local conditions in the local community may determine. Madam President, I would like More efforts are needed to increase access to care for the elderly and childcare facilities in minority languages. Among other things, the issue of strengthened legislation should be considered in order to make clearer demands on municipalities. Many times it is more about how the activity is organised and managed in practice than about the need for resources to be provided. Municipalities with older ombudsmen should ensure that they have minority competence. In addition, all municipalities, county councils and regions should be better able to use the language skills that often already exist in the staff groups. In the procurement of services and care for the elderly, for example, municipalities should also be able to take into account the needs of national minorities. I believe that freedom of choice and freedom of establishment are of great importance for the development of childcare and care for the elderly in minority languages to be continued – and not only in those areas that are administrative areas, but in all municipalities and county councils. This does not mean that this would be the whole solution, but in those places and areas where a significant number of inhabitants speak a certain minority language, freedom of choice and freedom of establishment can facilitate more activities. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 3.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-87	Madam President, I would like I'd like to join the birthday gratulants now that I have the chance. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: Thank you very much! ) It's about democracy. We are discussing democracy quite a lot right now, for understandable reasons. I think we agree that democracy is not just about the majority deciding, but that democracy also has clear hopes and expectations that we should respect minorities, listen to them, be concerned about their needs and so on. Fortunately, this has been laid down in a wide range of international conventions which nail precisely the rights of minorities. Perhaps the two most important in the very context that we are now discussing are, firstly, the Council of Europe Framework Convention on National Minorities and, secondly, a Convention of the Council of Europe on the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. Both of these have been ratified by Sweden, and it is important that we really implement what is required by these conventions and respect them. Some of the motions put forward here refer to these rules, and that is a good thing. It is not easy to get a motion through this factory and get that approval. But I have to say that when you read the motions that have been presented, you see that in many of them there is an honest will to pass on the Swedish tradition of genuinely respecting minority rights. That's a good thing. I believe that some of the rejections that have come to committee's attention are due as a matter of urgency to the fact that it has been judged that things are already under way and that work has been started to safeguard rights. I share this assessment. There are also expectations that it will continue. I would particularly like to emphasise the importance of what is said in a motion on the importance of improving coordination in the systematic implementation of the Convention. It's important. There is also another convention that is important, namely that we must ensure that there is information in society, in schools and elsewhere on the rights of minorities. I would particularly like to raise the issue of the Roma. The Roma have been discriminated against for centuries in our country. Just five years ago, a White Paper was presented on what had happened to the Roma during the last century, in the 20th century. It was frightening reading about systematic repression influenced by the theories that existed at the beginning of the last century that the Roma were a lower-ranking sect in our society. It didn't get any better at the end of the century either. Just think of the fact that while the hunt for Roma was going on in Europe in the 1930s and 1940s, it was forbidden for the Roma who sought refuge in our country to come here! There was a stop at the borders, and this was laid down by law. This law continued to apply until 1954, long after the war. It was a reflection that came to light when you read the report. At the same time as the report was presented, the government – and honour to the bourgeois government, which took this step – decided to set up a special commission not only to disseminate information about what had actually happened in history but also to look at what was causing anti-Ziganism to continue in our society. And it has continued. Roma who are talked to tell how they suffer discrimination and harassment in everyday life when they look for work, when they go into shops and even when they are out in Swedish society. This has to stop. The hatred and discrimination against the Roma continue in our society, and that is a disgrace. Here we have a major task in ensuring that the promises that we have now made in the spirit of the conventions that we have ratified are indeed fulfilled. There are things to do in concrete terms here. The Commission set up five years ago made proposals which must be fully implemented. One of the proposals was the establishment of a special Roma centre in Sweden. It would provide support for Roma culture, give Roma society an opportunity for an organised voice in the political debate in our country and ensure that Roma interests are effectively met. It would not be the same with regard to the Sami and the Sameting, but something with the same ambitions. This is needed in Swedish society. Here is a proposal from the Commission which has been examined in the Government Office. Unfortunately, the report has been pending for more than a year, but the new Minister for Culture has promised to address the issue now and do something concrete about it so that we get a clear proposal for the Riksdag to decide on. This is important. It is important that we are self-critical. At the same time, we shall stand up for the experience we have gained in combating anti-Ziganism in our society. On this point, unfortunately, Sweden is, I would say, an example for other countries. We have gone further than many other countries within the Council of Europe. We'll show you. The work now under way in the EU with the support of Swedish Members of the European Parliament must continue, and it must continue to be supported. This is because something is happening here which is important and which will also affect the situation of the Roma throughout Europe. We therefore have something to give, but at the same time our self-critical attitude must continue.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-99	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in many ways a leading country in its work on minority issues, but of course there is still much to do. We as a state and nation both affirm, work for and respect people's fundamental rights and freedoms, such as the right to their language, culture and religion. But, of course, there are currents in our society that are trying to counter these rights, which we so badly want to be obvious to everyone. There is still much to be done with regard to all our national minorities. Some of my colleagues have also picked it up. I would like to dwell particularly on the Jewish group in Sweden. It is totally unacceptable that we in Sweden in 2019 have a situation that makes Jews feel that they cannot practice their culture and religion or even live in their hometown. Harassment, harassment, threats and attacks should not have to be anyone's everyday life, not even individual events in a person's life. Here society has failed in its commitment to protect. The right to security has thus also been restricted for the Jewish group, especially in certain parts of our country. When synagogues are attacked, when young people who meet to socialize are in the line of fire and risk their lives and health precisely because they happen to be Jews, then we have a society that has failed. Madam President, I would like The situation of the Jewish minority is just one example of how important it is for us to stand up for the rights of our national minorities. The Jews, the Sami, the Roma, the Swedish Finns and the Tore Valleys all have their own conditions, characteristics and backgrounds. What they have in common is precisely that they are our national minorities and therefore also have the right to the protection that we as a society have taken on. Our message is as simple as it is clear: we will always stand up for the rights of our national minorities and the right to security, no matter where you come from or which group you belong to. Everyone in Sweden should be able to feel safe. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the draft decision of the Constitutional Committee in report 24.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-105	Madam President, I would like Happy birthday! I am very concerned that in Sweden there is still discrimination against people on grounds of gender, colour, national or ethnic origin, linguistic or religious affiliation, disability, sexual orientation and age. Jessica Wetterling, Left Party, particularly pointed out the Sami minority group. Thomas Hammarberg focused on the Roma group and Jörgen Berglund on the Jewish group. We also have tornadoes and Finnish groupings in society, all of which experience this discrimination. The debate here today on minority issues shows that there are concerns that are taken seriously by several of the parliamentary parties, although we do not have a common understanding of how minority issues should be dealt with in all parts. The Green Party has exercised in the Riksdag for strengthened minority protection. The objective of minority policy is to protect national minorities and strengthen their potential for influence and to support historical minority languages so that they can be kept alive and developed. The Red-Green Government has taken a number of measures and made several efforts to combat discrimination and vulnerability, improve the conditions for influence and participation, and strengthen the position of minority languages and the cultural identity of minorities. However, much remains to be done. In an interim report named Next Steps? Proposals for a strengthened minority policy were made for a review of the current monitoring and coordination of minority policies. The investigation concluded that the current regime had contributed to the implementation of several rights and increased awareness of minority policy but also had shortcomings. The investigation suggested that the government set up a special authority to monitor, coordinate and promote minority policy. Today, that responsibility is shared. This is one of the proposals that the Green Party has followed up in its motion A more effective minority policy. Madam President, I would like Another part that we have chosen to raise in the exercise that I refer to is the importance of languages as bearers of identity, history and culture. Continued efforts are needed in language, education and culture. Further measures to revitalise and strengthen minority languages in Sweden could be to indicate minority languages as a subject in the School Act and introduce new provisions on teaching in national minority languages for all the compulsory school forms, upper secondary school and upper secondary school. It is important that minority languages are guaranteed a greater period of teaching within the framework of school day. Sweden should also extend bilingual education for Sami. However, the field of education alone cannot guarantee the survival of languages. The cultures and minority languages of national minorities need to be widely supported as part of Swedish cultural heritage and diversity. More people need to contribute to the use of languages, and the public must provide relevant and accurate information on the linguistic rights of national minorities. The government is working to support the development and maintenance of the language. The Swedish Arts Council has been tasked with making efforts to promote the publication and dissemination of literature in the national minority languages. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been given a special task to inform about national minorities and minority languages within the authority's area of responsibility to municipalities and to health care. Swedish Radio and Swedish Television also have the task of expanding their range of programmes in minority languages. These are important investments, and more needs to be done. The government has also submitted a letter, a new beginning for a strengthened minority policy, in which the government shares the view that the governance and coordination of minority policies need to be improved, clarified and streamlined. It wants to go further with investigating and analysing this. The government has therefore not made as much progress as the Green Party proposes in its motion, but I, as an environmental party representative, will continue to support the government in this work and analysis and try to bring about a development that strengthens minorities in all areas. The Green Party has also raised the issue of a Sami Commission of Truth in its motion. Here the government has expressed its readiness to set up such a society when it so wishes. The Green Party is also pushing us to ratify the ILO 169. Here there is no support needed in the Swedish parliament for the government to get through such a proposal. We will continue to argue and work for such ratification on the part of the Green Party in the future. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-121	Madam President, I would like I too would like to offer the warmest congratulations on my birthday! The President will hear a lot today, I think. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved, as did my colleague, Thomas Hammarberg. He also went through a large part of the report, but I will focus in particular on the Sami issues. I have said it before in this House, and I say it again: having a strong minority policy is a basis for a strong and prosperous democracy. Around the world, minorities are being oppressed. They are expelled from their homes, colonized and murdered. Where repression is taking place, minorities – a group of people with languages, religion or expressions different from those of the majority – are seen as weakening the nation. Our country, too, has oppressed indigenous peoples and minorities. Our history includes both racial biology and forced assimilation. It is a story that is increasingly portrayed in the public space. I think, for example, that few people have seen the movie Sameblood and have not been touched by that story. Madam President, I would like Minority and indigenous policy is an important area to develop so that we can write in the history of ourselves that we took steps forward and that we will never again have to depict how people are oppressed in this country without being the person you are regardless of the minority you belong to. Only in recent years have important steps been taken. Just before the summer recess, we debated the government proposal called A strengthened minority policy. Later, the government came back with further proposals in the letter New Start for a strengthened minority policy. These included some important legislative changes that came into force on 1 January 2019 and that strengthen minority rights, as my colleagues have also explained in the past. These include political work in the municipalities, the importance of consultation, taking into account the influence of children and young people on minority issues relating to them, and strengthening the right to education and care for the elderly. Despite these progress in strengthening rights, the government still considers that considerable work remains to be done to ensure full compliance with the rights of national minorities. The Government therefore decided on 23 August 2018 to instruct a special investigator to further analyse and propose how the responsibility for coordination, development and monitoring of minority policy should be organised. One of the starting points of the investigation is that the Sami Parliament should be given greater freedom to design and conduct its activities with responsibility for Sami rights and the development of Sami language in minority policy. Proposals to be submitted by the investigation shall aim to ensure that responsible authorities contribute best to ensuring compliance with the rights of national minorities and to effective public administration activities. The assignment shall be presented by 29 April 2020. Furthermore, it is also worth mentioning that proposals for a consultation system for Sami issues are being prepared by the government at this time. A consultation system is a method of ensuring influence and participation in matters relating to Sami interests. We look forward to hearing this proposal in Parliament. Madam President, I would like Some time ago, the Swedish Church presented a White Paper on relations between the Swedish Church and the Sami people, which describes the violations and oppression committed by the church against the Sami population. The Swedish Tornedalings Riksförbund has also presented a report on the skull measurements carried out on torneckings during the Racial Biology Institute's active year. It is important that we go through history and learn from it so that it will never ever happen again. Therefore, the government welcomes initiatives on truth commissions where both the Sameting and the Swedish Tornedalings Riksförbund are now working to prepare their own process. It is important that the proposals are prepared by the peoples themselves and not by the state. The state should provide the conditions for the commissions of truth but not interfere with the content, as it is the state itself that is being investigated. It is important, however, that the work of collecting the stories and the testimony is started relatively soon while those who can talk about this can still speak. Madam President, I would like I am proud toredaling, but I feel that there has been a time when we would not be proud to be that. It was a time when we were ashamed of our language and were not allowed to speak Finnish or meänkieli and then traditions fell into oblivion. Then it was important to have a language, a nation and a culture. These thoughts are familiar to us. But today I'm experiencing another time. There are many of us who want to regain the language and culture that we have lost. Let us create the conditions for this and once and for all stop assimilation policy, anti-Semitism, racism and discrimination in the trash basket of history!
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-133	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, of course, support all our reservations, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 1 and 3. In a month, there'll be elections again. Important parameters in an election are, of course, the issues closest to the electorate to the heart and which party is best placed to live up to it with credibility. Another important question, however, is, of course, how the elections take place. The Swedish electoral system is essentially solid, but there are areas that can be improved. For example, we believe that a system of common and neutral ballots should be introduced. We believe that the risks of electoral fraud could largely be addressed by the fact that several parties share a common ballot. The problem of people feeling supervised when choosing their ballots would thus be significantly reduced. The Election Authority also states in its 2018 Election Experiences that the electoral system should be reviewed in its entirety precisely with a view to the use of neutral ballots and a system with printing of one ballot per election and per person. There are also environmental benefits to be derived from a system of joint ballots. Thus, far fewer ballot papers than today's abundance of them would need to be printed and transported. In the current electoral system, ballot papers are counted by hand. We believe that this system is outdated and, above all, uncertain, especially since there are occasionally reports of electoral fraud and the death of ballot papers. We would like to see the possibility of reading the ballot papers mechanically in the polling station, which further reduces the risk of lost ballots and miscalculations. Of course, this does not rule out the possibility of a final control calculation being carried out by hand. Another important issue is the issue of identification. Today it is possible to vote without legitimising oneself, for example by certifying the identity of the person who voted. We believe that there should be an absolute requirement for voters to legitimise themselves. The advantages of a requirement for identification are considered to be the potential drawbacks. If mandatory id-kon t role is introduced in voting, it is also possible to introduce mechanical cracks in the electoral roll, which would remove the risk of incorrect cracks. There is still time to investigate the introduction of a common ballot and identification requirements so that it can be in place for the 2022 elections. In this context, consideration should also be given to reviewing the need for national guidelines for election informers in terms of their training and control of their work. Several municipalities employ election informants for the elections. The reason for this is said to be to increase voting turnout in groups where participation is strikingly low. In election times, attention has been paid to several cases where people who are paid as election informants have also been political activists or have actively tried to sell votes. The guidelines should point to the importance of impartiality. In addition, we believe that the activities of election informants should be checked for the next elections. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democratic elections are too important for us to say: Now we are done, because now it is perfect. We must always strive to have as solid a system as possible to ensure the legitimacy and transparency of our democratic system.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-141	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by congratulating the President on her birthday! We discuss various election law issues that have been highlighted in motions that were submitted to the Riksdag during the general period of exercise last autumn. Many of the motions are about ballot papers, election days, election secret, etc. These are things that have been investigated quite recently. It has been concluded in a unanimous parliamentary committee that the order that we have today is the one that is possible in this context. If you don't, you're gonna have to do another big investigation. We don't think it's time for that yet. I therefore call for all such motions to be rejected. However, there are motions that we have submitted ourselves, which, of course, we think should be accepted. We support all our reservations. However, in order to save time at voting time, I only agree to reservation No 6. One of the fundamental rights of a parliamentary democracy is the right to elect its representatives in free and universal elections. The Left Party wants to extend that right to more people. At the elections held in Sweden, there is consistently a large activity at the country's schools. This applies not least in upper secondary schools, where some of the students will be allowed to participate in the forthcoming elections, i.e. those students who will turn 18 at the latest on election day. As a result, a large part of a year's term is not allowed to vote on election day but has to wait another four years to vote for the first time. It is a good thing that everyone in one year's run can vote for democratic support and for voting turnout. In Sweden, we generally have a high turnout, but there have been tendencies towards a decline. However, in the last election it increased a little again. If everyone in the same year is allowed to vote, it is reasonable to assume that the commitment in that year increases during the election movement and that more people actually use their voting rights. We also know that those who voted early often continue to exercise their right to vote. That is why we want the government to investigate and come back with a proposal that changes the voting age so that everyone who turns 18 during the year of the elections has the right to vote in all the elections held that year. Youth organisations, researchers, authorities and government investigations have also proposed further lowering the voting age in municipal and county council elections. The 2014 democracy inquiry left its report called Let more shape the future! to the then Minister of Democracy in January 2016. There they go through much of the research that exists on young people's involvement and political interest. Generally, young people have a great deal of commitment and interest in politics and social issues. This shows, not least, the recent school strikes for the climate in many countries. The study also writes on p. 534:中 There is a clear link between political knowledge and political participation. Knowledge of how democracy works increases students' tendency to believe that they will vote as adults. Students who have experience of an open discussion climate and who are invited to shape school life also demonstrate greater knowledge of democracy and social issues. It is therefore in the interests of a democratic society that pupils be given a good democratic basis to stand on. ..................................................... The work on democracy can and must of course be done in many different ways in school. The said investigation has made several proposals prepared in the Government Office. We believe that priority should be given to the proposal put forward by the inquiry for a trial of voting rights from the age of 16 at the municipal elections so that a first attempt can be made in the 2022 elections. The main purpose of reducing the voting age is to take advantage of young people's interest and commitment to politics and to give young people a direct influence on the development of society. Young people's everyday lives are really affected by local politics. From school and leisure to investment, young people are directly affected by local policies. The fact that they are also given the opportunity to influence would certainly further strengthen their commitment to democracy issues. In other countries, experience with the reduction of the voting age is good. There has been an increase in voting turnout among young people. Austria is the only country that has 16 years of voting rights in national elections, but Norway, six German states and some states in the United States have the right to vote at 16 years in some elections. Another advantage of reduced voting age is that the average age of the first-time voters then falls from 20 to 18 years. Today, the average age is 20 because it is elections every four years and you can vote when you are 18 years of age. If the average age is reduced to 18, this means that a majority of the first-time voters will go to high school when they vote for the first time. As we all know, election activities are underway in upper secondary schools. It bodes well for continued high turnout in the elections ahead. Today there are many people who are permanently resident in Sweden but who are only able to choose their representatives in municipal and county elections. The inhabitants who are today denied democratic influence in referendums, parliamentary elections and European Parliament elections include those who have come to Sweden as refugees, are spouses of Swedish citizens or who have immigrated to Sweden to study and work, for example. Many have lived here for a very long time but are not Swedish citizens for various reasons. It is people who participate in the construction of society, who work and pay taxes here, but who are still unable to influence through the elections to this assembly. We believe that those who are not Swedish citizens but who have lived here for so long that they have the right to vote in municipal and county elections should also have the right to vote in parliamentary elections. I therefore support Amendment No 6.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-157	Madam President, I would like I would also like to join in congratulating the President of the European Parliament on the fact that today is a certain day of reference! I would like to start by saying that I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Liberals in the report. But for time winning, I only agree to reservation No 4 under paragraph 4. The basis for what we are debating right now, our electoral system, is that we in this House are united and behind the system we have. The basis is also that there is broad acceptance and understanding of it among the entire population. There is. It feels like we have a safe, secure election system in Sweden. However, as one of the previous speakers has said, nothing is so good that it is not possible to improve further. We need to constantly develop and look at it so that there is a fundamental legitimacy in the electoral system, which is the basis of our democracy. Madam President, I would like The Swedish electoral system has some shortcomings in terms of both election secrecy and election security. People with visual impairment or other functional variations, for example, are unable to vote with a preserved full electoral secret. So-called family vote, where several people at the same time stand behind the election screen and together prepare their election envelopes in each other's sight, is also a phenomenon that is reported. It is not formally allowed and of course should not happen. A legislative matter that is now on Parliament's table introduces new rules on how ballot papers are provided in connection with the polling stations. That's good. It is good that we are going through the important issues together and are behind a new attempt to make it safe and secure. The new framework means that ballot papers should be placed in a space that is foreclosed for transparency. Madam President, I would like This is also not risk-free, given that the possibility of sabotage and manipulation may then increase when transparency over the general ballot board is not free. That is why, in our view, the new regulatory framework must be thoroughly evaluated after the European Parliament elections next month, when it has been tested for the first time in real life. Madam President, I would like The 2014 election year was the first year in which the authorities would ensure that the polling stations were accessible to all and thus also to individuals with different types of functional variations so that no one would be discriminated against in voting or in their election. The municipalities' exemptions to use inaccessible premises were removed, but the democratic journey towards full accessibility must in fact continue. It was not the end of the road, as we might have thought then. A serious problem today is that people with visual impairment cannot vote with complete electoral secrecy in the polling stations. It is not possible in Sweden in 2019 to vote for a candidate without revealing their election secret because you have to ask an election worker or someone else to help tick the ballot. This may be because you can't see or have a cognitive disability that means you can't do it on your own. Madam President, I would like In response to a previous motion request from the Liberals, the Riksdag announced in spring 2016 the importance of the visually impaired being able to vote in person without having to disclose the electoral secret. The ambition should, in the view of the House, be that an adequate solution should be in place as soon as possible, but at the latest before the 2022 general elections. We Liberals welcome the fact that there is broad support in this House for this. It is urgent that investigative measures are now taken as quickly as possible so that we have a system in place. In conclusion, Madam President, the Liberals believe that a further review of the electoral procedures should take place. The review should include strengthened measures against family voting, improved electoral confidentiality for visually impaired or otherwise disabled persons and improved protection against manipulation and sabotage of ballot papers posted in the polling station. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we agree with most of the major elements of today's report. I would like to express my support for reservation No 4.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-169	Madam President, I would like Our Swedish democracy is based on a solid foundation, based among other things on our universal free elections and the right of every citizen to make his voice heard. That is why what we are now discussing is about election issues and the way in which our elections are to be conducted is particularly important. There are some things to be taken into particular consideration when talking about the foundations of our democracy. Among other things, there must always be a great deal of long-termness in how the electoral system is structured and how it works to ensure stability. It is important that confidence in the electoral system is safeguarded every step of the way, and then any change must be well motivated and not risk undermining public confidence in our general elections. In addition, any change must be well established and communicated and must appear wise from the perspective of the individual elector. Democracy can never afford to make changes to an electoral system that is in danger of being misunderstood, thereby undermining confidence in our democracy. The report, Madam President, deals with several motions with many interesting proposals, ranging from ballot papers, counting, election informers and election days to voting for people with visual impairment or other disabilities. Several of the ideas are well worth taking advantage of and becoming part of a continued discussion on how our electoral system can be developed to also keep up with time, while preserving confidence and stability. We Moderates therefore do not want to close any doors at this stage, but we are also not prepared to lock ourselves in a motion report in ready-made positions. Instead, we look forward to having a continued dialogue with the other parties on what measures need to be taken to further develop our electoral system. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report 25.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-173	Madam President, I would like I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report. There are two things that are particularly beautiful in a democracy. One is the order, and the other is when the people go and vote in general elections to determine the policy that should prevail in the country, and the other is to decide which people should represent the people in the decision-making assemblies. A reliable electoral system is therefore a cornerstone of a democratic society, as my committee colleagues have mentioned before. That is why we must, of course, draw lessons from the shortcomings of our electoral system and make use of suggestions for improvements. At the same time, it is important that the system is stable and that changes are made after thorough investigations and at a calm pace. The legitimacy of the system is based on people recognizing themselves from elections to elections. The electoral system is not suitable for experiments. It is also important, as in other constitutional matters, to have broad agreements so that citizens do not feel that politicians are moving away from the rule book and that there is stability in our democracy. Certainly there are shortcomings in our electoral system. Some have been raised in the motions dealt with in the report, including securing the secret of elections for people with visual impairment, the electoral ballot system and the turnout of foreign Swedes. These are issues that are also being prepared by the Government Office.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-178	Madam President, I would like In several places in Sweden, it has been noted that the localisation principle of the Local Government Act puts obstacles in the way of the municipal networks that want to offer fibre solutions to those living on the other side of a municipal border. Halmstad and Falkenberg municipalities are examples of this. According to law, municipalities and municipal companies may operate only in their own municipality according to the localisation principle. It's basically usually a good principle. However, if municipalities want and allow municipal companies to expand fibre over a municipal border, we should not make it more difficult for lawmakers because fiber expansion is a priority for society, not least for rural areas and sparsely populated areas in mainly northern Sweden. We Moderates believe that the localisation principle should not stand in the way of building broadband across a municipal border in cases where it is the socio-economically best solution. To make it easier for everyone to access broadband, we want to make the necessary adjustments to the Local Government Act. This view is shared by the responsible authority, the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority, which believes that municipal urban networks should be given the opportunity to expand fibre networks in border areas of another municipality without access to fibre and that a derogation from the localisation principle should therefore be introduced precisely for such extension. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency also notes that municipalities have a key role to play in broadband deployment in Sweden. The investigations and analyses carried out by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency have resulted in the following conclusions. It is appropriate to introduce an exception to the localisation principle in order to enable urban networks to expand fibre networks in undeveloped areas of an adjacent municipality, which is closely connected to the network activities of their own municipality. The purpose of such an exemption is to capture households and businesses in areas where the expansion is not profitable for other network owners but because of the proximity to the urban network on the other side of the border is interesting for that urban network. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency's proposal is currently being prepared within the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Fibre availability differs greatly between different counties, between different municipalities and not least between urban and sparsely populated areas, as well as between multi-family houses and single-family houses. The remaining extension can therefore be expected to be more expensive than the expansion carried out so far and, as a general rule, to be difficult to implement on a market basis. This is supported by, among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office in the world-class Bredband report? "The Government's efforts to meet the broadband policy objective. There it is observed that Sweden is one of the countries in the world where households and businesses have the greatest access to the internet via broadband but that there are large differences between urban and rural areas. That is why we should make it easier in every way we can to make the roll-out of broadband continue. The issue of the location principle and the possible need for exceptions to facilitate the roll-out of fibre infrastructure were also addressed by the report Broadband for Sweden into the future. The study considers that the deployment of high-speed broadband infrastructure needs to be stimulated if the government's broadband target is to be met. We also agree on that objective. According to the study, the introduction of an exception to the localisation principle could be beneficial for the extension. Madam President, I would like We agree with the Government on the goals and importance of a rapid, secure and total roll-out of broadband across the country. However, we Moderates think that we already have good arguments for making a change to the Local Government Act on the principle of location. We don't think we need to investigate any more. Now is the time to act. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Moderates' reservation No 2.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-186	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to begin by congratulating you on your birthday. For time winning, I only ask for reservation 1 although I naturally support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, the municipal self-government is a central and important principle that has unfortunately been eroded more and more, partly through Sweden's membership of the European Union but also through binding legislation that neither the politicians of the municipalities nor county councils can influence. One example of the erosion of municipal selfgovernment is the Treaty of Lisbon. Through this, Sweden's municipalities and county councils are obliged to grant voting rights and the right to stand in elections for people who lack and have never had any Swedish citizenship. It is our view that the right to vote, as well as the right to stand in elections, should be reserved for persons with Swedish citizenship. The so-called instruction law is another example of the erosion of municipal selfgovernment. Through the forced reception, the state has tied the municipalities to long-term economic and social commitments that risk entailing large costs that are very difficult for the municipalities themselves to control. In our opinion, each municipality should be free to decide how much reception of the unaccompanied municipality is capable of dealing with. Madam President, I would like In order to get a broad policy that appeals to the majority of the population, it is important that there is a common understanding of how the country's municipalities and county councils are governed. In order to pursue a municipal election, support from at least two thirds of the council is currently required. Thus, a minority of a little more than a third of the council can remain in government while a majority of councillors prefer a different government. I would be very surprised if it is the general view that this is an appropriate order. It is a reasonable starting point that it is the governing political leadership itself that must be responsible for discussing and negotiating with the other parties so that it is at least tolerated by a majority in the council. Therefore, the law should be amended so that at least half of the persons entitled to vote in favour of an additional election is sufficient. Madam President, I would like Now the party support must also be reported annually in the municipalities and county councils. However, the presentation of party support is not subject to any clear requirements as to what the accounts should contain. This has meant that the accounts sometimes differed quite a lot between both parties and the various councillors. Even in county councils and municipalities where it has been decided how the report should be presented, there is no legal requirement to comply with these decisions. The parties can therefore ignore what the council has decided and account for the use in a way that they themselves consider appropriate. Some parties have submitted their profit and loss account as accounts, while others have submitted a written, non-digital report. Both options are today sufficient under the Local Government Act, but it will be very difficult for the country's voters to compare how the parties have used their party support with the current order. A more uniform accounting approach can be achieved by establishing guidelines on how the financial statements are to be made. At least some form of minimum requirements should be laid down in the accounts. This would make it easier for voters to compare the use of party support by parties. That is also the point of accounting.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-198	Madam President, I would like There is a great deal of support in the Swedish parliament behind the ambition to increase security throughout Sweden. We agree that we must take a strong stand against organised crime, strengthen the police and combat both crime and the causes of crime. Serious crime and juvenile delinquency create insecurity throughout the country, especially in certain vulnerable areas. We can never accept the spread of gang crime and serious organised crime and terror in certain areas. The basis for combating serious crime is a functioning police force and a strengthened legal chain, but preventing crime before they are committed is the best way to create both security and perceived security. The Center Party therefore wants municipalities to take greater responsibility for crime prevention by involving more actors, such as security officers and property owners. This could involve prioritising prevention work in schools, for example with regard to attitudes to crime, taking into account a crime prevention perspective when working on detailed plans and increasing the use of so-called BID collaborations, business improvement disputes, which is an internationally established method of collaboration between the private and public sectors. We know that the method in its Swedish design has produced good results in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. It therefore deserves more attention and dissemination. Falkagård in center-controlled Falkenberg is the only area that has been removed from the police list of vulnerable areas. By turning schools with poor results, investing in civil society to offer extensive and meaningful leisure activities, allocating resources for outreach activities and working actively with urban development to create a safer and safer environment for people to live in and for the police to work in, development has been reversed. The Center Party believes that municipalities have a key role in crime prevention by taking the leadership and inviting civil society and property owners to work together to create secure and pleasant areas. I would therefore like to ask, Madam President, for the approval of paragraph 11 of the KU report.
i-KY7SnVEeBdxBeF7MdNSugz	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for reservation 17 under paragraph 20. Madam President, I would like This is a very broad motion report dealing with various issues. There will also be a rather strange debate when we debate such extremely different things. Madam President, I would like Like the previous speaker, I would like to highlight security, because security issues are issues of freedom. Life is shrinking for those who do not feel security. For example, knowing that the police come when it is really needed and when calling for it is to feel safe in your neighborhood. Not feeling compelled to give up that evening walk – all of that is about freedom in everyday life. Compared to many other countries, Sweden is a safe country. But it doesn't apply to everyone who lives here. Public perceptions of social security have decreased, as shown by developments in the National Security Survey, which has been carried out annually since 2006 by the Swedish Crime Prevention Council (Brå). After many years of increasing security, the curves turned in the wrong direction in 2016, and the negative trend unfortunately continued in 2017. The uncertainty is now back at about the levels prevailing at the start of the measurements. The proportion of people who believe that insecurity affects their own quality of life is even higher than in previous measurements. It's pretty frantic. Madam President, I would like Crime prevention needs a long-term perspective and an anchoring of the local environment in which the work is carried out. It is in the local community that security is created. This is why municipalities and other local actors play a key role in crime prevention. There is also an announcement from the Riksdag to the Government on this theme. However, we Liberals believe that the law needs to be clarified even more so that municipalities are given an explicit task to work crime prevention within the framework of their responsibilities. Today, there are provisions in the Social Services Act that highlight the responsibility for victim support, and municipalities also have a special responsibility for young people. On the other hand, there are differing views in the local government sector as to how far this municipal responsibility extends in terms of crime prevention in general – just as highlighted by the previous speaker. In order to create and maintain security locally, there must be cooperation between municipalities, police and other bodies. The policy authority's work with local cooperation agreements, citizens' promises and other important efforts should be complemented by a clearer regulation of the law for municipalities' role in crime prevention, so that it is the same everywhere in the country. Madam President, I would like Having said that, we believe that the issue is so important that there needs to be a new announcement to the government on this subject. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 12.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-212	Madam President, I would like Sweden's 290 municipalities from south to north play crucial roles for Swedish society and our democracy. The same applies to our regions and county boards. Cooperation between states, regions and municipalities is of great importance. This report, the KU31, deals with some 40 requests for exercise on municipal and regional issues from the general period of exercise. I would like to support the KU's proposal and reject the motions. As Mr Eliasson mentioned, the case covers many issues of a different nature. These include, for example, municipal self-government, county administrative boards, council meeting days, citizens' right to propose proposals, citizens' proposals, regionalisation and local crime prevention. It can be pointed out that the municipal self-government is central. The form of government is based on a holistic approach and that society should stick together. There are many challenges for municipalities and regions. It is about trust in welfare, about health care, school, care and urban planning. There are a number of issues where municipalities and regions have an important responsibility to bear. The overall view is important. I therefore think it is unfortunate that we, as mentioned on some specific issues here, are taking the individual issues separately. The overall view is important for society to stay together. The parliamentary committee appointed by the Government in February 2017, the Municipal Investigation Authority, is tasked with developing a strategy to strengthen municipalities in fulfilling all their tasks and with the challenges arising from demographic development and the rapid pace of urbanisation. National equivalence and local self-government are two concepts that are specifically taken into account. What Mr Berglund mentioned about broadband and municipal collaboration should also be covered by this holistic approach and included in the work of the Parliamentary Committee. Madam President, I would like The latest major municipal reform saw the light of day in the early 1970s. It was when shopping and municipal communities merged, cities ceased as concepts and all this became municipalities. It was an extensive reform for the Swedish local community that is still essentially valid today, although I understand there are some municipalities that, perhaps to strengthen their brands, call themselves cities. However, the concept of municipalities is common. The tasks of municipalities have been developed and broadened. Regardless of size and whether it is a city or a country, the responsibility is the same. Questions about school, healthcare, care, social services, construction, environment, culture and community life are dealt with by each of the 290 municipalities in the country – from the smallest population in terms of population, which I believe is Bjurholm in Västerbotten with perhaps 3,000 inhabitants, to the largest city in Stockholm where we are today, with 900 000 or 1 million inhabitants within the municipal boundaries. The EU perspective also needs to be taken into account and has brought about major changes, not least with regard to procurement and other issues. Cross-municipal cooperation has been developed in a number of areas. There are also new provisions that provide municipalities and county councils with general opportunities for contractual cooperation. Such provisions were introduced in the Local Government Act only last year. Madam President, I would like Perhaps the most revolutionary changes have been made to the county councils; they are now made up of regions. This has not been mentioned very much in the debate. In a formal sense, the word is still there, but the division into regions covers the whole country as of the current term of office. It started with Region Skåne in the late 1990s, when three county councils were merged into one, and since then several land forwarders have followed. Now, this year, the whole of Sweden consists of regions – from Gotland, which is the least, to large regions such as Västra Götaland, Stockholm County and Skåne. The regions are responsible for health care, both university hospitals and primary care, but regional development issues and culture are also within the areas of responsibility. The role and responsibility of the regions, as I see it, will need to be further developed, not least from the EU perspective, as mentioned. It talks about the Europe of the regions, and it is important that the Swedish regions also take initiatives to highlight their importance and the importance of growth and development. The role of county councils remains important and should be highlighted. It is about the presence of the state throughout the country, the presence of government, regional development and a holistic approach. Among the motions we have to consider today is one on the closure of the county administrative boards. It would be, as I see it, to move in the opposite direction towards developing cooperation between states, municipalities and regions. The county administrative boards are a guarantor of the state's presence throughout the country. Instead, I would like to stress the importance of strengthening the role of county boards. Madam President, I would like Accessibility is of great importance and citizens' contact should be emphasised. A motion calls for a comprehensive municipal merger reform. On some issues it may seem attractive, but in other contexts the distance between decision-making, administration and everyday life may be too vague and far away. Perhaps where the need for merger is greatest, the conditions are the worst, with long geographical distances. The possibility of collaboration and contractual solutions is therefore important to stimulate. Madam President, I would like Crime prevention has also been highlighted. Here, the collaboration between the municipality, the police but also associations, business and more important roles play. An announcement in the Riksdag has also emphasised this. In the 2019 Budget Bill, the Government states that extensive development work has been carried out in the area of crime prevention since the Police Authority was established in 2015. The number of district policemen has increased. They now exist in 93% of all local police areas. The local work is highlighted, not least in the initiative developed by the government under the heading "Combined against Crime", where the Crime Prevention Council was asked to make proposals to further develop the work. Citizens' dialogue, participation, cooperation and collaboration are in focus, and it is also an important basis for continued successful work.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-225	Madam President, I would like Citizens, do you recognize that feeling when the municipality makes decisions that are up the walls? Do you recognise the frustration when the obvious solution to the problem is not on the table of decision-makers? Do you recognize the powerlessness when politics does not see the problem that you see as citizens? We legislators must make it easier for citizens to put an issue on the political agenda and to initiate a referendum on it – that is to say, what is contained in the concept of peoples' initiative and which is, to some extent, at municipal level today. What society has to gain from facilitating people's initiatives is a more pluralistic picture of reality and a more diversified picture of problems. More questions will come up on the political agenda, more perspectives on problems will be presented, more proposals for solutions will be presented and, not least, the will of the people will be known for decisions in the council. That is how it is done: the referendums initiated under the People's Initiative are only consultative and followed by a council decision. A battle stood here 100 years ago for universal suffrage. I wonder if Branting, Staaff, Lindman and Edén would not have been surprised if they had seen how little has happened in the area of democracy in the last 100 years. Today, the question is whether we should take another small step towards deeper democracy and continue their work. Social change is accelerating. This means that many issues can be raised during a term of office without having been discussed in the electoral movement. Other issues may change at the same time. Finally, many parties have not been able to discuss certain issues that already existed during the election campaign. Overall, this makes public support for certain decisions unknown and weakens democracy. Against this background, it becomes more important than ever that the people can act independently to raise issues to the fore. One might even say that democracy presupposes that the people have the opportunity to be an independent actor outside the established, elected government of our country, our regions and our municipalities. This insight is manifested at municipal and regional level by the People's Initiative in the Local Government Act. The People's Initiative rule was amended in 2011 in four ways. On the one hand, municipal or county councils now have to hold an advisory referendum when people's initiatives have been taken and if two thirds of the council do not oppose it. In the past, a simple majority of the council was involved. On the one hand, the threshold was raised for when a people's initiative is valid, from the signing of 5% of citizens to 10%. In addition, the requirements for signatures were increased and the time for the collection of signatures was reduced. So it was an improvement and three deteriorations. With the new requirements, it is very difficult to collect signatures of 10% of those entitled to vote. In addition, the council's treatment often acts as a filter that stops half of the initiatives. This is a serious matter, because the importance of the citizens' most important tools for being an independent player is thus reduced. The ability of citizens to influence the political agenda independently of elected members must be ensured. Citizens must be taken seriously. We Swedish democrats are proposing to facilitate people's initiatives. Our motions are about the need for fewer citizens' signatures, perhaps 5%, for a referendum to be held in a municipality, for as many as 90% of the council to oppose the proposal in order to prevent a referendum and for the possibility of electronic petition to be investigated. That would be three improvements. Democracy is sometimes described as being housed in a figure with three corners: popular government, the rule of law and the power to act. It is said that if you approach a corner you distance yourself simultaneously from one of, or both, the other corners. It is on this basis that proposals for increased popular governance are often criticised: it is believed that the rule of law or the ability to act will be weakened by increasing popular governance. But our proposal is about making it easier for citizens to initiate a referendum in which they show their will. As the referendums are only advisory and the council still decides on the matter, the capacity for action or the rule of law is not reduced. In other words, we are putting forward a proposal which provides for a stronger dialogue between the people and the policy for an improved basis for decision-making. Responsibility in the next elections is also facilitated, as it becomes clear to voters what their politicians are doing with the will of the people. Finally, by taking a stand and voting on real issues with real consequences, the people build up their experience and skills. It is a path towards democratic maturity and a formation of people in the democratic field that Teodor Holmberg would have loved.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-236	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by congratulating you on your birthday. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: Thank you very much! ) Madam President, I would like A majority of the committee wants the Riksdag to vote in favour of the Government's proposal for a new law on certain common services. The proposal shall aim at enabling local government services provided at service offices in a coherent organisation. The service is intended to address people who do not master the Swedish language and people with disabilities and pensioners and give them the opportunity to meet a case officer locally. This, of course, sounds laudable, and we partly share the government's assessment that there is a need for better access to basic government services for individuals, entrepreneurs and companies throughout the country. Having said that, however, we believe that the Government's proposal, as it were, is bypassing the objective and does not adequately cover the service needs that actually exist in society. The Swedish Democrats believe that the whole of Sweden should live. According to information on the government's website, the announced service centres will be largely located in exclusion areas and only to a limited extent in rural areas, where they would probably do the greatest good. Madam President, I would like In order for the public service of general interest to be adequately and fully covered, it is unlikely that the service is offered geographically close. If you do not speak the language or understand the social codes or regulations that regulate the general's relationship with individuals, it should not make any difference if the requested service is offered locally, in another city or on the internet. The many problems encountered in exclusion areas can therefore hardly be expected to be solved by further lowering the general requirements for immigrants to benefit from the services offered by the majority society under the conditions of other citizens. Instead, in order to maximise the benefits of service centres, the starting point should be that they should, as far as possible, be located in places where elderly people, people with disabilities and people living in sparsely populated areas can be expected to need services. In its referral, Kammarkollegiet stated that the proposal should not be implemented in the form proposed by the Government to the Riksdag. Kammarkollegiet emphasises that the joint service act and the joint service regulation are not intended to be used in the way the proposal states, when case handling is to take place within the respective authority's remit. In our opinion, Parliament should therefore vote against the proposal. Instead, the Government should be given the task of carrying out a full review of the Joint Services Act and the Joint Services Regulation. In that review, particular attention should be paid to examining whether the solution of service centres actually benefits the vulnerable areas to which the Government's proposal is directed and to examining whether the service can be effectively targeted at both rural and urban areas. Another important consideration in this context is whether it is possible to increase communication with the authorities using videoconferencing techniques. We in the Swedish Democrats are of course behind all our reservations, but in order to save time when voting, we only ask for the approval of reservation No 1.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-247	Madam President, I would like All of Sweden should stick together. Development will take place throughout the country. A strong and well-developed democracy requires a local state foundation. In a digital and connected time, it may seem that geographical locations play less and less of a role. Almost no matter where we are, we can be reached and feel involved in events that take place. However, this does not mean that close contact with citizens – in urban, local or rural areas – can be replaced by only digital services moderated from entirely other places. The state's presence in the various parts of the country plays a major role. Madam President, I would like The proposal put forward by the Government and dealt with in the KU report KU35 proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for a new law on certain common services and legislation amending the Public Access and Confidentiality Act – all to make this possible from the citizen's perspective. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the KU report and the rejection of the motions. Madam President, I would like The proposed regulation includes, among other things, a new law on certain common public services replacing the act on common services in civic offices. It is about building a new form of government service, creating opportunities for interaction between authorities and administrations and improving accessibility. The Government's assessment is that the State Service Office will handle the registration of public documents in an efficient and good way for the operation. Mr President, I would like to It is also proposed that a new confidentiality rule should apply to documents submitted to or drawn up in a service activity to be carried out by a State authority to another authority. The committee's considerations concerning local government services at service offices have taken into account the current arrangements, the joint service law and the joint service regulation. However, questions about the Freedom of the Press Act and about the Act on Public Access and Confidentiality are also included in the considerations on how public documents can be disclosed and information can be requested by authorities and individuals. Mr President, I would like to The new service organisation – it can be stressed precisely that the word service is guiding the whole – is added in order to strengthen confidence in the state authorities and society's institutions. Despite the trend towards more and more digital services, the Government believes that personal services – the response – are important to highlight, not least for those who are most economically and socially vulnerable, people with different disabilities or people who have difficulties with the Swedish language. Some services may be managed digitally, but other forms of service require physical visits, and the location becomes important. Bringing together the local visitor and service activities of some government authorities into a coherent organisation increases the opportunities to offer a high quality service in a cost-effective and good way. It has often been the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Pension Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency that have created joint offices. However, the intention is not to exclude other state authorities from voluntarily concluding service agreements with the State Service Centre. The matter is that the government recently decided to commission the county boards to map the state presence throughout the country and propose methods to follow up the issue. The County Administrative Board of Örebro County has been given coordination responsibility, and a first interim report will be made within approximately one month, on 31 May this year. The Government has also commissioned Statskontoret to map and compile ten large agencies' plans for localisation of operations, in order to strengthen the conditions for a more strategic dialogue between the government and the authorities on the localisation issue. Mr President, I would like to The Government emphasises that substantial changes will also be made by the Public Employment Service's activities and that it intends to return to the agency's future participation in the service organisation. The budget passed in the Riksdag before the New Year included substantial changes for the Employment Service. The Director-General has presented a scenario of organisational change. According to the report, 132 offices are disappearing from current locations. But the local presence in the municipalities by the state obviously needs to be ensured on the basis of the new conditions. The link and cooperation with the municipalities will be a challenge in themselves but need to be emphasised. In view of the debate that has arisen on the organisational changes in the Swedish Public Employment Service, it would be of great importance to emphasise the importance of municipal support. It could be a topic for a hearing or hearing organised by the KU or in cooperation with other committees: how to ensure and develop state presence throughout the country, local anchoring and contact with citizens. One could then highlight this issue from an overall perspective. Municipalities, companies, associations and organisations can jointly make great efforts to boost development and create jobs and growth. State support throughout the country is important precisely for jobs, growth and development.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-262	Mr President, I would like to As the previous speaker pointed out, KU's report KU35 deals with a single structure for the provision of local government services. These are the proposed legislative changes to enable local government services provided at service offices in a coherent organisation for which the State Service Centre is responsible. Nevertheless, a follow-up motion on principles for localisation of state activities has been launched. Mr President, I would like to Regrettably, government activity in recent decades has been highly centralised into large cities and county centres. The Center Party wants more of the state's functions to be carried out in smaller locations where the cost pressure is lower. Then we provide more opportunities for jobs for people living outside the big cities, while there are potential gains in terms of lower costs and higher efficiency. To relocate government jobs to smaller towns around our country is of course not in itself a miracle cure for the whole of Sweden to live. It is one of several measures that is needed. This is an important measure. The aim of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development to decentralise 10 000 jobs is central, but it is equally important that government jobs are distributed throughout the country to ensure growth outside big cities and regional centres as well. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would therefore like to highlight a number of important points in the January agreement, which the Center Party, the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have concluded: we agree to build more service offices throughout the country. We agree that no new authorities will be located in Stockholm during the term of office. Having said that, I support the committee's proposal in the KU report and reject the reservations.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-267	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. In Sweden we have 290 municipalities, from Kiruna in the north to Trelleborg in the south. They vary in size from a few thousand inhabitants to hundreds of thousands of inhabitants. Sweden has large and growing regional differences. Inequality is visible on maps, for example on the city bus map. The money is located in the centre, in the big cities and in the city centres. At the same time, the countryside, the mills and the suburbs are left behind. Of the ten richest municipalities in Sweden, there are eight in Stockholm County. All ten poorest people are in rural areas. The Left Party wants to create conditions for everyone to have both the right and the opportunity to live wherever they want in the country. A comprehensive strategy based on long-term sustainability, developed collaboration and greater regional influence is needed for the state to ensure that basic public services exist throughout the country. Access to public services is crucial for people to live and live their lives. Government services must also be available in rural areas. If we are to stay together and create conditions for development throughout Sweden, we must have equal basic conditions no matter where we live. In recent decades, as Linda Ylivainio said earlier, the public has often been the first to leave the countryside and suburbs to their fate. The Left Party wants to see initiatives that affect all parts of society. It is high time to give everyone in Sweden the same chances, to give the opportunities to those who have been denied them for decades. We should be able to trust that the welfare society works no matter where we live. The public should not be guided by market logic and based solely on demand. Our common wealth is created by the resources of the whole country and the work of the whole country. Then shall the fruits of this labour also come to all, and to all the land. The Left Party therefore supports the proposal in the report. The legislative changes proposed in the report make it possible to provide local government services at service offices in a coherent organisation. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, developments are currently going in the wrong direction. In several parts of the country, we see government agencies closing down their local offices, such as the Kronofogden. Another authority facing major changes is Arbetsförmedlingen. Strong cuts are expected in the form of redundancies and closures of local offices – a result of the budget passed by the right-wing parties in December 2018. In addition, the Government, the Liberals and the Center Party have agreed to privatise large parts of Arbetsförmedlingen's operations. Coherent state authorities with a national overview are a prerequisite for pursuing an active policy. This is necessary to ensure that all citizens are given equal support wherever they live. We in the Left Party therefore say no to these closures and privatisations. In view of this, I read with interest the Christian Democrats' reservation which says: I wonder how the Christian Democrats have thought that Arbetsförmedlingen should exist in principle in each municipality when Arbetsförmedlingen's budget is cut so much that about 130 out of 242 offices need to be phased out. Soon only Systembolaget will have coverage throughout the country.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-277	Mr President, I would like to For the audience, it may seem a little difficult to separate us. Everyone who has been up here has spoken warmly for local government service and in one way or another said that it should be all over the country. The Christian Democrats have been wrinkling for and exercising about this for many years. It is important for the whole of Sweden to live and that there is access to local government services, preferably in service centres all over the country. Service centres are a good way to gather the services of various authorities so that basic government services are available around the country. Measures should be taken to promote such cooperation between authorities. Municipalities and state authorities should coordinate their basic services to citizens and businesses by cooperating in local service centres. This is true throughout our country, not just in big cities. There shall be reasonable distance to basic service, both public and commercial. This gives the practical opportunity to stay in the country or to move there. I was asked what the Christian Democrats think about the main state actors and authorities. There we mention precisely, as quoted, the police, Försäkringskassan and also Arbetsförmedlingen, which in principle should exist in all the municipalities of the country. Yes, it is true that there will be a lot of question marks with the conversion and financing that won the approval of Parliament. We must also include private initiatives in what the Christian Democrats and the Moderates wanted to replace the Public Employment Service, so that it can be nationwide. It is an absolutely correct observation that it is not enough that Systembolaget exists all over the country, but it also needs the other actors to do so. It is important to maintain a basic level of service throughout the country in order for people to feel safe and for life outside urban areas to work. Basal and public services should be easily accessible throughout the country, and I would therefore like to make it easier for authorities and municipalities to cooperate on this. A good way is to set up service centres in connection with the local grocery store or other natural collection points in the country. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-282	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating social services and children's issues. There are many exercises that treat both large and small. There are a large number of topics and issues on the agenda, and it is impossible to address them all. I'll bring up some of them. Many sports deal with social services and the Social Services Act. Work is already being done to lift social services, and some of the answers are also here. Since 2015, the Council for Governance with Knowledge in Health and Social Services has been responsible for ensuring that the governance with knowledge is coordinated. It must be effective and adapted to the needs of different principals and professionals. The Council will also be a forum for knowledge development, research and innovation. According to Forte, the Swedish Research Council for Health, Working Life and Welfare, there is still a gap between research and practice in today's welfare. Since May 2017, Forte has been tasked with establishing a national ten-year research programme with applied welfare research, including research schools. The initiative will include, among other things, client- and practice-related research in the field of social services. Increasing research in the field of social services is very good, because it has been neglected, in my opinion. Practical research as a knowledge building and bridge between activities and research is much needed because a previous criticism has been that the research that has been conducted does not come out to the activities. I believe that research schools have an important role to play here. They will also contribute to the research being carried out. Several sports include a review of the Social Services Act and the way social services work. Happily, part of this is also under way. In April 2017, the inquiry into the social services of the future was established. The investigation will review the Social Services Act and some of the social services' tasks. The study will propose measures that can contribute to a predictable, equivalent, equal and legally secure access to social services and its efforts across the country. The investigation will also clarify children's rights perspective and review the possibility for social services to delegate decision-making rights in matters relating to LVU, the Act on the Care of Young People, and LVM, the Act on the Care of Addicts, as well as other delegation opportunities. The purpose of this mission is to design a social service that contributes to social sustainability, the individual in focus and a preventive perspective that gives people equal opportunities and equal rights. A majority of the parties in the Riksdag want the government to investigate how cooperation between different professions at family centres can be facilitated. In 1974, 45 years ago, the first family center in Sweden started. Since then, the number has increased, and today there are over 200 in the country. The report The next step on the road to more equal health from 2017 states that a family centre should include at least child health care, maternal health care, open preschool and social services. It is precisely the combination of care, care and social services in the same place that is the success of family centres. Almost all parents of young children come there and have natural contact with a variety of actors and access to their knowledge, because family centres are also linked to many other actors who work for the best and positive health development of the child. Parents can also get tips on educations that municipalities offer. Several evaluations are in favour of family centres, because the way of working increases the chance to discover and cater for support that families need. I believe that all parties are in favour of family centres and their way of working. But the view on whether an investigation should be conducted by the family centres differs. The Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party have reserved for the proposal to investigate whether different professions should be able to work together at family centres. We think it is a huge waste of tax revenue to set up such an investigation, given that there are already so many family centres today. Why should you spend money on this investigation? Why should one investigate something that over 200 family centers in the country already do? Municipalities and county councils around Sweden, in over 200 places, have already long since agreed and started family centres. The whole idea of family centres is precisely collaboration between different professions from different principals. You've done that on your own. The requested inquiry from the bourgeois and the Swedish Democrats might have been done 45 years ago to help the first family centre to start. I therefore call for our reservation 70 to be approved and for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the other motions to be rejected.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-297	Mr President, I would like to It has just been Easter, a weekend when at least I enjoyed spending time with my children and with family and friends. During the weekend I was struck by a tremendous gratitude that my children are allowed to grow up in an environment that is secure and full of love and concern, an environment with many present adult role models that gives my children both confirmation and guidance in life. Unfortunately, this is not the case for all children who grow up in Sweden. Many children grow up in broken families and in very socially vulnerable environments where the positive role models unfortunately shine with their absence. For these children, it is extremely important that society takes a special responsibility, not least through the social services that we now have to debate. Social services have an important role not only to work reactively but also preventively and supportively, so that future problems can be prevented. An important insight is that all families and all people can get into trouble and need help to cope with challenges in life in general and perhaps in parenting in particular. It is therefore important to lower the thresholds for social services as well as good collaboration between, for example, schools, health care and social services on early prevention and health promotion. Family centres are one such example of cooperation. Working in the family center has proved successful. The Commission on Equal Health notes that such an approach increases the chances of discovering and meeting the need for support among families with children. Against this background, I am very pleased that the committee has supported the proposal made jointly by M, C, KD and L last autumn to explore the possibilities of facilitating the establishment of child and family centres, where different professions work together for the individual family and for the benefit of the individual child. Mr President, I would like to Given the extremely important role of social services, it is extremely worrying how much pressure social services are in many parts of our country. It is not possible to turn a blind eye to the many and serious shortcomings and problems that exist regarding, among other things, the provision of skills and the follow-up to efforts made. Therefore, comprehensive reforms and, not least, political leadership, both nationally and locally in each municipality, are now needed to develop social services. We Moderates have presented a battery of proposals to improve social services, many of which are dealt with in this motion report. Among other things, we want to see a new and future-oriented social services law. We also believe that a national action plan is needed to strengthen social services and to reduce the inequalities that exist across the country. What we see as crucial is to strengthen the position of the profession and give social services employees better opportunities to do a real good job. In concrete terms, this relates to everything from support, supervision and further training to using modern technologies to reduce the administrative work of staff and thus free up time for more important tasks. The fact that as little as 2 per cent of children's administrators' time goes to talk with children while about 10 per cent of the time is eaten up by IT trouble are figures that show with brutal clarity the need for a changed way of working and an improved working environment. Mr President, I would like to What is also clear is the need for improved support and development for children located in, for example, family homes or HVB homes. It is particularly important to make efforts to raise the knowledge and educational outcomes of these children and thus improve their chances in life. Today's school results for placed children are very disappointing. The latest statistics show that about 60 per cent of children in foster care reach upper secondary school qualifications in the same year as they finish grade nine. In this context, I would therefore particularly like to highlight reservation 4 on the work of social services with children and young people and reservation 7 on cooperation with children. The Government should return to the Riksdag as soon as possible with proposals to identify and implement measures aimed at strengthening the quality of social care for children and young people and with measures aimed at improving the monitoring and support of children's school outcomes in cooperation with the school. Mr President, I would like to Although, of course, I support the two reservations mentioned just now, as well as all moderate reservations, I choose, for time-winning, to grant only reservation number 41 on national adoptions. Many children who are placed are relocated time after time, and they are also placed for long periods of time. In the case of long-term placements, the issue of national adoption or transfer of custody should be examined more frequently to give the individual child a long-term, safe and predictable situation. The government should investigate how more national adoptions and custody transfers could be made possible – for the benefit of the children concerned. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to highlight the importance of a strong line of work to push back exclusion, to provide more children with good conditions of growing up and to ensure that society's resources really go – and are sufficient – to those in greatest need. For us Moderates, it is obvious that it should always pay better to work than to live on benefits. That is why we want to see a ceiling on subsidies. In order to ensure that support, which is still called social assistance in the people's mouth, does not become a subsidy trap that leads to long-term exclusion, we want to see stricter performance requirements. The Social Services Act should be tightened up so that all municipalities require compensation, normally equivalent to the full time. We believe that those who receive support should be required, for example, to participate in language actions and actively seek work, and not only in their own municipality but in fact throughout the country. The entry line, which has been signed above all S, V and MP, has been devastating for Sweden. It has led to increased and cemented exclusion – an alienation that we must now break.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-308	Mr President, I would like to The report on social services and children concerns many issues and, as many have said, many different areas. We have dealt with and taken a position on some 200 requests for exercise from general exercise time. These are questions about the work of the social services and everything from cooperation between municipalities to limiting the right to assistance, to name a few. It is gratifying that so many choose to address social services as an important area, because social services have one of the most important tasks of society and are central to our Swedish welfare system. The work of social services is not easy. We are doing an amazingly good and important job, but we must not forget that it is mostly about making human judgments. It is therefore also important that there is effective supervision and follow-up of social services. It is important that children do not fall between the chairs because different authorities have different responsibilities and different obligations. Therefore, the interaction of social services with other authorities must increase and become even better. However, it is not only between different authorities that cooperation needs to be increased, but it also needs to be increased across municipalities. There we can see some obstacles to cooperation, and those obstacles must be removed. Today, the legislation is protection of privacy, which I think is good, even though I also see a certain problem in it. For example, a municipality cannot send a complaint about a child's being hurt to another municipality after the family has moved. I myself have been on the social welfare committee of my municipality and have read such investigations. Often a certain pattern can be seen where parents put it in the system to move once a complaint has been received. When a complaint comes in, the family simply chooses to move instead of taking hold of it, and the new municipality is not allowed to take part in the complaint. That's not how we best take care of the kids. When it comes to children, we believe that there must be a notification of concerns at national level, so that there is a problem in the system when a family chooses to move to a new municipality. This should be done in the system so that you can find out that there is a complaint from the previous municipality. Unfortunately, that is not how it works today. It's not about chasing the parents, it's about making sure the baby's okay. Mr President, I would like to However, if it goes so far as to make it necessary to place a child, it must always be done with the best interests of the child in focus. For example, it is unreasonable for children who have not committed crimes to be placed in locked youth homes and at risk of being treated as criminals. Children who have been cared for by authorities must also be given greater protection and compensation in the event of neglect or other abuse, and for children who have been placed for a long time and who have had time to relate to the new family, the transfer of custody and adoption must be given greater consideration – everything and always with the best interests of the child in focus. Much in this report is simply about ensuring good quality. It is about evaluating and clarifying, and one thing I think needs to be made clear is the right to financial assistance for illegal residents. It looks very different in the different municipalities. Some social welfare boards interpret it as meaning that the illegal resident can best meet his or her needs in his or her home country – an interpretation that has indeed been established even in some court-martial judgments. Other social welfare boards choose to grant financial assistance to illegal residents. There are examples of municipalities in Sweden that provide more long-term assistance to people staying illegally in the country. This could, for example, be aid for renting people who are not even entitled to stay or live in our country. We see it as very problematic that the government has not submitted any legislative proposal to clarify the legal situation. The country's municipalities must be made clear what the right to benefits for illegal residents should be. My and our firm view is that the person who has been denied a residence permit should not be entitled to long-term assistance from the municipality. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we are fortunate. We have a security system that is unique and which is seen in many countries around the world as a model of how they would like it to be. The provision aid is intended as the ultimate protection and a last resort when all other possibilities are tested, but for many it is unfortunately a long-term livelihood – not least for foreign born, and perhaps mainly foreign born women. Increasing employment is important not least for improving public health, because inaction risks leading to increased depression, but also because it greatly contributes to increased exclusion to be at home instead of having meaningful employment. If you are looking for supply aid, you usually want nothing more than to find employment. We believe that the Social Services Act should be tightened up so that municipalities are required to provide compensation for income support. Of course, this must not lead to a deterioration of the economy; it must always pay more to work. Although supply aid is paid by municipalities, I believe it is a national concern that public health is good and that employment is high. It is also a national matter to combat exclusion, and in view of the way it looks, this is actually also a gender issue. There are many more subjects that I would like to touch on, but I would well exceed my speaking time. I am therefore content to support reservations 20 and 22, but I am of course in favour of all our reservations.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-318	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating social services and children's issues. It is a debate on 200 requests from general exercise time and 75 reservations. We can say that there is a great deal of commitment to this issue, which feels very good. In this area there are a number of important issues and different aspects, but in my speech I intend to focus on two different areas. The first thing I will talk about is children's rights, the importance of cooperation and early intervention, and in the second part I will talk about support for children and young people who have witnessed violence. It is always serious when people get hurt, but it is especially serious when it comes to children. Although the vast majority of children are doing well in Sweden today, there are children and young people who in different ways suffer very badly. Exposure among children can take different forms. It can be about assault, mental illness and neglect as well as tight financial conditions and conditions. The challenge for society lies in catching up and daring to see all the children who actually need support. The various functions of society, ranging from health care to care, should act as a safety net and be there when we need it. An important network for children and young people not to get hurt is social services. But the meshes in the net must become denser and safer; we cannot accept that children fall between the meshes. We certainly have the opportunity to catch up and react, if we think about it. In the average municipality of Sweden, children in preschool begin about when they are one or a half years old. Then they go to primary school. In the afternoons, many are on frits. Then they continue in high school and, hopefully, go on to high school. For nearly 19 years, we have some contact with our children and young people from almost eight in the morning to three four in the afternoon. There are quite a few hours where we can react and act together, so certainly there is time. Together – between school, social services, outpatient care, child and youth care, fritis and so on – we have great opportunities to actually react, catch up and act. However, for this interaction to work, we need to ensure that all obstacles to municipalities to cooperate between professions, between activities and across municipal boundaries around social children and young people are removed. Not least for small municipalities, it is absolutely crucial that we provide the opportunity to cooperate across the municipal border in order to secure competence in social services. The second thing that needs to be changed in order for social services to be able to work outreach and prevention is the view of children as holders of rights. The parental right, i.e. the parent's right to decide for the child, is very strong in Sweden, which means that social services depend on the parents' yes in order to be able to act when a child needs help. If the parents have given up contact with the social services, social services can only act when the child is so ill that there is legal support for a decision on forced action. The child is thus allowed to feel worse and worse until the situation is so difficult that social services have to resort to coercion. This is not reasonable. This issue of parental law is an issue that I hope the ongoing investigation of the future social services will take seriously and work through so that children's rights are strengthened. The week before Easter, I visited a shelter for violent women. This accommodation is one of the few in Sweden who conducts children's activities. We talked a lot about the importance of providing children with support and help, because we need to create the conditions for more shelters where children can live. We also talked about securing children's opportunities to attend preschool and school even if they need to live in another place. In a traumatic and turbulent situation, preschool or school can be an environment that provides continuity and security. It can be about ensuring that temporary accommodation is child-friendly in its design. More children may also need to be shot at school in order to remain in their regular preschool or school. We must ensure that we provide the conditions for this. Despite knowledge of this, the child's situation is all too rarely investigated when a guardian is suspected of having been subjected to violence by the other guardian. The Social Services Act points to the special responsibility of social services to provide support and assistance to women who are or have been victims of violence and to be aware that children may need support and help. However, the regulatory framework should be clarified to ensure that children are always heard and that children receive the right support when reporting violence in close relationships. Children who have experienced violence should be seen and treated as victims of crime and thus become target owners. In addition to the child's right to a lawyer, it also means that the child can be heard even if the guardian opposes it. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that I naturally agree with all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party. For time winning, however, I only apply for reservation 29.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-333	Mr President, I would like to I call her Mia-- the one I got to know when I went to some parenting school after I had my first child. I saw her right away. I was very young then; she was slightly older but not as old as I thought the other parents were. Her whole charisma was so proud and so incredibly beautiful. I fell for her right away, so one day when she asked if we were going to have coffee, I was actually overjoyed. We started hanging out with our children during parental leave. I think she took me under her wings because she thought I reminded her of her and that she had a lot to teach me. She used to always pep me about the importance of studying. She lectured me when she thought I was on the wrong track, and we spent hours talking about everything about the big challenges of childhood years. She really became a role model for me. Almost always when I came to her house, she was cooking, with the music in the background, with her child on her arm and with her special smile on her face. For she had realized that I was not much of a cooker, and she was of the firm opinion that neither I nor our children would be any festive types if we did not learn to love a really culinary meal. This in retrospect is actually the memory that hurts the most – that memory that I always thought of her as so very alive, so warm and so incredibly thoughtful. I used to think you don't get a nicer mother than that. I don't want to or can dress words how it felt when I was told that Mia had been brutally murdered by a man. I think every word is superfluous to describe the image I have on the retina of how I went behind her little child to leave her to her last rest. The year my friend died, 12 women were murdered, I think. My friend was one of those flesh and blood that hide behind the numbers in the statistics. In 2018, 22 women met the same brutal fate as Mia. These are terrible tragedies, which leave children, parents, friends, colleagues and relatives with lifelong wounds. This is murder that would probably have been stopped. Mr President, I would like to In 2018, 22 women in Sweden were murdered by a man with whom they had a close relationship. These 22 women are the tip of a huge iceberg, for behind the violence are structures and patterns that kill women in their ultimate form. With the abyssed roar that has swept the world with the whole metoo, we have seen how the pyramid of violence has been painted and portrayed in real form with women's testimony as a brush. We have seen how women are daily exposed to sexist jokes, violations and objectifications based on stereotypical gender roles without anyone stopping. We have seen how harassment, threats and physical and psychological exploitation are everyday in workplaces, schools and in the public space without anyone stopping. We have received terrible testimony about rape, abuse and psychological violence. No one has missed how Josefin Nilsson's fate has become the embodiment of all the women who are terrorized, abused and hated until they can no longer cope without someone stopping. We know that 22 women have been murdered in only one year. This is the reality of women in Sweden, all done by men. It's really disastrous. How is it possible, Mr President, that every third woman between the ages of 16 and 24 reports that they have been subjected to sexual offences in the last year? How is it possible that 65 000 women are abused every year, that almost 100 rapes per day are committed if you include the dark number and that over 200 000 children have witnessed domestic violence? So it is more than 200 000 children! How is it possible that women and children in our country are now fleeing the man who has taken the right to exercise power by force? Women and children have had to leave everything behind to escape for their lives, hide in different accommodations and even terminate their entire identity because a man cannot stop beating and because society does not stop him. Over and over, it turns out that vulnerable women have tried to get help without proper action being taken. The men go free, but the women are put behind bars. We're not talking about one or two women. We're talking about thousands of women. This really is not wise, Mr President. This is madness. I wonder: how does it befit a country like Sweden to allow violence to continue? Yes, it is possible for the gender power regime to be maintained. It is possible because politics allows it to continue. Mr President, I would like to This is not a law of nature. This is a matter of power... of men's power over women. These are structures that can be changed if you really want to and if you stop acting as if the violence is something we just have to relate to. It is possible to stop violence with political decisions. We have tabled a motion, which we are debating here today, with a series of proposals aimed at giving women the protection they are entitled to and at giving men the punishment they deserve. These are important proposals, based on the enormous knowledge accumulated by the women's shelters during the 40 years they have saved the lives of women that society has failed. But it is the structures that need to be changed in order to really eliminate violence. The economic gaps between women and men must be closed, responsibility for children and homes must be shared equally, power between the sexes must be equal and gender stereotyped standards and values must be broken. It is a real prevention of violence, because, Mr President, we should be terribly aware that every decision we make in this House is getting some sort of consensus. That is precisely why I would say that it is in women's lives that politics chooses, instead of increasing equality, to rig a tax system that benefits rich men at the expense of poor women, a system in which women cannot live on their pensions. It is directly dangerous that instead of building homes, so that every person has a place to live, they are faced with market rents. Then it is a slap in the face of all women not to strengthen welfare but instead to fight to lower people's wages. This is politics that can cost lives. We can stop men's violence against women if we want to, but then we need to change political direction. We in the Left Party have raised a motion on social policy and on men's violence against women. We support all our reservations, but in order to save some time, we only ask for the approval of reservation 27. But it is not primarily these motions that will stop the violence, but it is the policy that the Left Party is pursuing to build an equal Sweden.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-355	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that we support all the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for the winning days I only support our reservation 73. Mr President, I would like to In this House, we often or always strive to base our decisions on science and proven experience. That is an excellent starting point because we will not have to make decisions that subsequently turn out to be bad or not feasible. For wise politicians, it is worth much effort to propose and make decisions based on this very foundation. I assume that we all have this as a starting point – anything else would be surprising. Unfortunately, however, Mr President, I am surprised, quite surprised. Only the Moderates are prepared to support the Christian Democrats' request that all municipalities should work on the model of Bostad first. The method has been scientifically and experientially proven to work, yet the support in committee is almost non-existent. That's surprising. Mr President, I would like to The common method in Sweden today to help and support the homeless is the so-called step model. In short, it means that the homeless, who are often also dependent and/ or mentally ill, must qualify for their own housing. On the way you should go through a number of steps: detoxification, support housing, social second-hand contracts, etc. If you then pass all the steps and do as society says, there may be your own accommodation at the top of the stairs. If you fail at some step, you fall down and have to start again from scratch. This method has been used for decades in Sweden, and the result is really, really clever. Very few people reach their own homes, but the more people fail over and over again. Another method is Bostad first, which assumes that the homeless person above all lacks accommodation, which may feel like a perfectly reasonable starting point. This model offers the homeless person their own accommodation. The only requirements are that you pay the rent, care for the apartment and not disturb the neighbors, that is, exactly the same conditions as for everyone else. In addition to this, all kinds of help and support are offered to deal with and overcome their other problems. The method has been used for a long time around the world and in a few municipalities in Sweden, and the result is fantastic. Eight out of ten manage to stay in their apartment in the long term. Abuse is decreasing, mental illness is becoming smaller and past breakdowns in social relations can be rebuilt. Mr President, I would like to My question, therefore, is to those who do not support our motion: why do science and tried and tested experience in this particular matter mean so little or even nothing at all? Now that there is a method that works in reality and which is also much more economical – 150 000 – 200 000 SEK cheaper than support housing per individual and year – why does it not want it to be used on a large scale? It is absolutely reasonable that Bostad should first be the normal and stair model exception. Now it's just the opposite. It uses a method that we know does not produce very good results and does not use a method that is proven to be extremely effective. Today's government parties have not taken responsibility for homelessness in Sweden, either the last parliamentary term or this one. It was perfectly possible to complain and protest in opposition, but in government the issue completely disappeared from the agenda. The national level to support the municipalities was removed, Bostad first jumped over and no strategy for homelessness was developed. The results are now visible. Homelessness is increasing, mainly among the most vulnerable and not least the elderly. They live and sleep on the street, in storerooms, under the bridges or at best in a shelter. To overcome this social problem, the government has no action. Could it be because the homeless are not such a strong electorate? As a Christian Democrat, I focus on those who are the most difficult in our society. Unfortunately, the government parties do not seem to share this focus in the real work. Mr President, I would like to It is reasonable to call the work of the government shameful. It is a disgrace for a society not to cope with even the most acute homelessness. One problem is that science and proven experience are reserved for the festive speeches but not used in reality.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-365	Mr President, I would like to 中 Social services are the support that the municipality provides to residents who need help and cannot obtain it in any other way. That's what the Nationalency Cyclopedia says. This means that if the support of social services does not exist or if it is not good enough, then there is nothing for these people – nothing. It's about newborns all the way up to 104-year-olds and up, our brittleest. Mr President, I would like to There are children who are suffering extremely badly in our country here and now. I am therefore pleased that the demands of the Liberals and other parties for family centres appear to be approved. Children need adults in different occupational groups working together, but more is needed. Let me give you some examples of liberal proposals that I support. Mr President, I would like to The parental code is very strong in Swedish law. We need a child's beam. If you want to leave the country to expose your child to genital mutilation or to marry a child, then you should be denied exit from Sweden. If one oppresses one's child in the name of honor, the environment must put its foot down hard. And if you yourself are at the root, meant or not, of your child's harm, you must be able to be forced to help, Mr President, before it is too late. Social services must be given the power to decide on interpersonal obligations for parents as well. I therefore support our reservation 55 on this very point. We Liberals want a national strategy against violence against children. The mere fact that a child experiences violence should mean that he or she should be seen as a victim of crime and thus as a plaintiff with the right to his or her own representation. Of course, the child must also be entitled to his or her own social services officer, regardless of why they occur in any of the social services' investigations. Some children are not safe with their parents, no matter what we do. It is our responsibility as a society to take good care of those children, for they become everyone's children when their parents are not able to do so. They are also our most fragile. Too many placed children have health problems, and they do not pass school. But we know that health and approved grades protect children, yes, almost vaccinate them against misery later in life. Liberals therefore require stronger cooperation between school, pupil health and social services. We must follow schooling and health, because that is our joint responsibility. Every child must grow up in a safe home. We adults also need our own door to close. We Liberals want to do more to prevent eviction and counter homelessness. Not least, society needs to protect women who are fleeing violence in their own homes much better than it is today. The Kvinnofridslinjen needs to be extended to a national help number. Each municipality needs a women's shelter, and these shelters must have stable and long-term support. Protected accommodation must be suitable for children when needed, and these children must be able to live their child life and attend preschool and school, no matter where they have to hide. But there are people in our country who can't hide, can't escape. Some people's lives end. We Liberals want the actions of the authorities to be examined on a case-by-case basis by gross or fatal force. What have police and prosecutors done? Did social services and health care do enough? Could we as a society have done better? Even if it's too late for one of us, knowledge can save others. There is so much darkness, and so many who are told detailed details about all of this. I'm thinking about the social services. Although members of the municipal social welfare boards are careful with their confidentiality, the current situation means that people, often in small cities, get insight into the most painful of their fellow citizens' private lives. Mr President, I would like to We would probably find it strange if a political committee were to be given detailed information about a sick person's health record and then decide what kind of health care this particular person would receive. But in social services, that's exactly how it works. We Liberals therefore want to review the order of delegation in the field of social services, for the sake of integrity and of vulnerable people. This requires that social security officers receive a licence, just as in healthcare professions, and that they have more time for responsible decisions, because these decisions affect other people's entire lives. It's all about life. That's what our laws and encyclopaedias say. This is the help that our citizens cannot get in any other way, and we must not turn our backs on these people.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-379	Mr President, I would like to It was probably not only me who cried when Maj Karlsson stood in the speaker's chair and told about the friend who had to put her life to and how they followed the children to their mother's last rest. Mr President, I would like to Save the Children has one of those spins as on Bingolotto. You press a button, and when you press it again, the spin stops and you can see how big the chance is for where in the world you're born. The chance of being born in Sweden is 0.08%. There are many children in the world that we need to protect. Every day 15 000 children under five die in the world — every day. In 1979, child abuse was banned in Sweden. Sweden was the first country in the world to ban child abuse. Most countries still allow it. That is why I am so proud of the feminist foreign policy we are pursuing and of the poverty policy we are pursuing through aid. But in Sweden we also have problems, and we have a lot to do here too. Fortunately, Sweden is a well-developed country, and most children grow up in families that are safe. Everyone has a right to school. Most people have adults around them who can support themselves, but unfortunately this does not apply to everyone. I will continue to argue, over and over again, that as long as not every person, every child, woman and man, can live a safe and good life in Sweden, Sweden does not live up to the Convention on Human Rights. Unfortunately, there are children who grow up with abuse or poor economic conditions because of the misallocation of income in Sweden. It could be domestic violence. Maybe the man beats the woman and the kids. When most children go home in the afternoon, for the weekend or on vacation, they come to a fun and safe environment. But for other children, it's a horror. Summer holidays will be something they fear. In these contexts, it is important that society really is in place. It is therefore a good thing that we have adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. In January 2020 it will enter into force as a Swedish law, and there is a great deal of work going on around municipalities and county councils and at the Children's Ombudsman to see how it will be implemented in practical terms. It must be easy for children to get in touch with adults. One hears many children say that they talk to friends but not with Mom or Dad or teachers because they are afraid to expose themselves and do not feel confidence in any adult. Then there must be a pupil health that can see these children and get into an early stage and help them find the right place in society and get the support needed. That is why I am pleased that we are investing in providing resources also for student health. If you have a little bigger mental problems it must be easy to get quick help on BUP. That there should be mental care available at health centres is something the government works hard to eventually get in place. As Maj said, unfortunately, there are women who are forced to flee and leave houses, homes and jobs and move into sheltered accommodations. Then there must be resources for the children too. Children should not lose out on this, but should be able to continue to attend school and not lag behind. That is why we need to invest even more in these shelters so that everyone gets the care they need. When Metoo started in 2017, I was pretty scared. It was long awaited, and we really needed metoo in Swedish society. I started #allavi, a hashtag for all women regardless of industry and living conditions. In one week, 57 000 women had joined the group. What was written in the group made me completely afraid of the dark. For the first time, 70 - year - old women dared to tell them what they had experienced when they were young. It had followed them throughout their lives. They thought it was their fault that at a very early age they had been subjected to sexual violence by men in close relationships. Since it has not been talked about, these women have not been caught up, have not been helped and have continued to end up in destructive situations. We must be much more courageous here. Politics must be much more courageous. We need to do a lot more for these women and these kids. That is why I am glad that we are now investing a great deal in women's shelters. We have also adopted a national strategy against men's violence against women. It runs until 2026. We have invested 1.3 billion in the strategy. We also have an action plan against genital mutilation. In our amending budget, we allocate 45 million to the work against violence in close relationships, 45 million to actions involving honour-related crimes and 40 million to women's and girls' shelters. At least it's a step forward. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I would like to thank you for the floor and to support the proposal in the report and reservation 70 on family centres.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-394	Mr President, I would like to I have first listened to Lena Emilsson, who is a representative of a government party, and now Pernilla Stålhammar from the Environmental Party, who is also a government party. In the debate, I have lacked concrete examples of how the government intends to strengthen social services and address the serious and extensive problems and shortcomings that we see in social services around Sweden. Not least, there are many shortcomings when society chooses to place children in HVB homes, in family homes or in special youth homes. Mr President, I would like to I'll start by giving the government some credit. Just before Easter came a press release stating that the government has decided on a package of measures to secure HVB homes and special youth homes. It was really about time. The committee has repeatedly highlighted this. For example, we have called the Director General of the State Department Board to us and received very weak and inadequate answers. So it was really about time. When I read the press release, however, I was concerned when I noted that family homes were not highlighted. We know that many children are placed in family homes that are directly unsuitable. I listened only yesterday to the Caliber radio programme about repeated placements in a family home where they were convicted of more or less serious crimes. That is totally unacceptable.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-398	Mr President, I would like to There is, as Johan Hultberg says, an incredible amount to do. One important thing is the social services inquiry that is now under way. An additional directive has been added to include the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the Social Services Report. One should, as it were, turn the ball around; children's rights should weigh more heavily than family law. We have seen that there are major problems at Sis' home. There are drugs, and a lot of people get hurt there. It's something we're looking at now, just like you mentioned. As far as family homes are concerned, we also see the problems. There have been family homes where there have been problems repeatedly and they have not taken it further. A municipality that sends to another municipality has been able to send to a family home that has not done very well. That is why I and the Green Party believe that we need a kind of national register to ensure that those who are unable to meet the requirements or who are misbehaving cannot continue. You should know this in the national register, so that more misplacements simply do not happen.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-403	Mr President, I would like to A national register would have been interesting to investigate. However, such an investigation has not come from the government. The only thing that has come is that you should look at HVB homes and the special youth homes. Family homes are completely left out. I call for concrete measures. The Moderates are absolutely open to look at a national register. We have pointed out in a reservation in this report that we want to introduce certification and continuous checks on family homes. Mr President, I would like to When society intervenes and in some sense takes over the parental role, it is extremely important that society does not fail in the parental role. It will be a double betrayal for the children placed in a directly inappropriate family where drugs occur, where the parents who are supposed to be role models themselves are on a criminal path and so on. So it's a betrayal. I very much hope that the ambition of Pernilla Stålhammar and the Green Party will not stop at an empty ambition but that there will be concrete action from the government. It is precisely concrete action that I am asking for. In this debate and in our reservations, the Moderates and I highlight a battery of measures to improve social services. I honestly did not hear anything concrete from either Mr Emilsson or Mr Stålhammar about what the government is doing, more than having an ongoing investigation. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Stålhammar once again: what concrete steps is the government taking to strengthen social services and to remedy the shortcomings that exist? Is it prepared to introduce a national action plan, as proposed by the Moderates? Is it prepared to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to look at how support for social services can be improved in helping children in vulnerable families to cope with school? Are you prepared to strengthen social services and staff skills and responsibilities? What concretely does the government want to do?
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-409	Mr President, I would like to Of course, me and Johan Hultberg have the same ambition here. This government's work has just begun, as the formation of government delayed. There's a lot going on in the pipeline. We now have, among other things, a Minister responsible for children's issues and a Minister for Gender Equality. I know Åsa Lindhagen works very hard. We want to see a national register. As I said, this could be a way of ensuring that children cannot be placed in non-compliant accommodation. When it comes to social services, one problem is that different parties do not communicate. There must be better cooperation between, for example, health care, social services and school. Such things are now being discussed in the Government Office, and we are making concrete proposals for how we will continue to work on them. We also have the Social Services Committee which will present its report next June. We look forward to that very much.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-415	Mr President, I would like to For both society and the individual, a strong civil society is of great importance. It is in many ways the cohesive kitt of our society. It brings people together and carries up our country in many respects. Civil society is the basis of voluntary associations on which our society rests and which are not covered by the public. For us Moderates, society is always greater than the state. This is why a strong civil society is of the utmost importance. Civil society exists in every corner of our elongated country, but it is perhaps both the most important and present for people in rural areas, where the public is rarely present. I grew up in the rural areas of East Gothenburg and know the importance of civil society both for the countryside and for everyday life. Reijmyre IF, Skedevi Church and the Old Reijmyre Homestead Association are examples of things that bring people together and keep people together in an important community. Our sports associations provide children and young people with meaningful leisure time. They do an important job for immigrants to become part of Swedish society and form an arena for association that brings together a lot of people in our country. There are also countless other types of associations and organisations that make major and important contributions to civil society. These include charitable organisations, which in various ways help people in need. At this time of year, many of us have bought a mayflower to specifically support all children's right to a life without poverty. It is also about other types of organisations such as pensioner associations or study associations. Swedish civil society is indeed a rich flora of non-profit forces. Mr President, I would like to Another major part of our civil society is the religions. Since the Christianization of Sweden, the church has been a very important institution, if not the most important, in our society. To countless generations it has contributed to literacy and education, providing health care, social care and, not least, a spiritual home. Although the role of the Church of Sweden is not the same as then, religion and all our religions in Sweden also have a very important role in our time. More than 8 million people in Sweden are members of some religious community, and there are still today more churchgoers than visitors at football matches as well as in cinemas. Sometimes, however, it feels as if the religions and their importance to most people in our country are forgotten. Freedom of religion is at the heart of a democratic country, and everyone has the right to believe what he wants and to practice his religion. All the religions that exist and operate in Sweden make up everyone, separately and together, an important community for very many people, and thus for society at large. In the 17th century Sweden got its first Jewish parishes. In the mid 1800s, when more communities than the Swedish Church had to operate, the free churches grew strongly. Since then, Sweden has gained a large number of active religions in various religions. In recent decades, the number of religions and communities has grown rapidly. The old state church, free churches, immigrant communities, Jewish congregations, mosques, and temples together constitute the multireligious landscape of many of us, each and every one with others, as spiritual abode. The religions are also more than spiritual homes. That's where many of us are baptised, married and finally buried and given our last rest. Even if you are not a believer yourself, it is a place where we meet to celebrate life and meet in love but also in grief. For many people, they are just meeting places, a social context and a safety net. It is the care of cultural heritage, concerts and language cafes for immigrants. We simply have a lot to thank all our religions and congregations for. Although religion for the vast majority is positive and gives joy and meaning, there are also forces that use religion to spread terror and terror and to uphold norms and values that we can never accept. Religious contradictions and intolerance among the few are spreading hatred in our present time with disgusting acts, which most recently in Sri Lanka, where over 300 Christians had to put their lives to death because they were just Christians, or the mosque attack in New Zealand, where at least 50 had to put their lives to. We also see it in all the Jews who here in Sweden do not feel safe and who face the ugly face of anti-Semitism in today's Sweden. We see it in the girls, but also boys, who are not only forced to live under but also to uphold standards that limit them in their lives. Homosexuals are denied to live openly with their love. Children are forced to marry. Girls are being taken out of the country and are being maimed. All these terrible acts and destructive standards are often defended in the name of religion. Mr President, I would like to Politically, we must strongly distance ourselves from this and ensure that no organisations or religious communities that uphold values and norms such as these receive funding from the public. I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, the Moderates support all their reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation No 4 under paragraph 4. It relates precisely to the payment of public funds to organisations that uphold these standards.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-428	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by pointing out that I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats in this report, but for time, I only call for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be accepted 1. Civil society, which is also a part of faith, must be an end in itself and not just a means for the state. On the contrary, the state must be a guarantor of a viable and independent civil society that is allowed to lead its own life and which is not only given value by its instrumental use in various ways from a political point of view. An instrumental management of civil society has seen too much of it during the past term one when, for example, after the migration crisis in 2015, the government tried to turn civil society into a single large integration apparatus. Civil society creates great values, and identities are formed through interpersonal relationships. Voluntary associations take place in civil society on the basis of friendly relations, communities and common aspirations. For many people, this social existence is a cornerstone of social existence as a whole. The state cannot replace the amazing that can emerge from civil society. But a strong society can be built through a strong civil society if the state lets it thrive. At least it seems that some parties in this House want it to be so. It's always something. Mr President, I would like to The view that civil society should be given the opportunity to sprout without too much government hand being involved is important for us Swedish democrats – thus not saying that civil society organisations should be able to receive public support, which ultimately comes from tax funds, and then do anything with them, quite the opposite. On the question of monitoring where public aid is going, and how it is used, we need to be stricter on the part of the state. It is incredibly important for the legitimacy of the whole system of public support for civil society to remain, not least in the eyes of the public. One problem that has grown up in Sweden over time is that organisations that receive state aid and at the same time do not want to be part of Swedish civil society. Instead, they want to create a kind of parallel civil society alongside, where completely different values and norms should prevail fundamentally than in Sweden in general. These could include civil society organisations that do not distance themselves with credibility from religious extremism or honorary culture. These organisations can rather work for such things, which is totally unacceptable. This is not the case in Sweden. When the Committee on Culture considered the report we are now debating, we elected Swedish democrats to actively support several requests from a single motion by a couple of Swedish-democratic Members of Parliament. This exercise is about the Muslim Brotherhood and its establishment in Sweden. This is an issue that we in Sweden would have had to work more proactively on. We Swedish democrats, among other things, want public support that goes to organisations that can be said to represent the Muslim Brotherhood and its sub-organisations to be stopped. To do this, we must, of course, investigate what the establishment of the Muslim Brotherhood in Sweden looks like and what connection the organisation has to such things as terrorism. We also want to investigate the consequences of the financial support paid to organisations within the Muslim Brotherhood network. By supporting this individual motion, we want to pay particular attention to and focus on this problem, although of course there are also other organisations that we need to access and which run a harmful agenda but which may have a different kind of ideological residence. Mr President, I would like to Religious communities can of course often also be a positive force in Sweden and Swedish civil society. For example, free churches can be found in rural and sparsely populated areas, but also in larger cities, which often carry out fine work that contributes to social cohesion in society across generations. Of course, the importance of social work in religious communities should not be underestimated. But it is important to be able to hold two balls in the air at the same time. We must vigorously combat public support for organisations that operate in violation of Swedish and Western values, but at the same time we must be able to see and work to ensure that religious communities can achieve the great potential they have to be a positive force in our country.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-438	Mr President, I would like to I support all my reservations and the Center Party's reservations, but choose for time winning to claim consent only to reservation 7. I would also like to take this opportunity to refer to the two specific opinions that I and the Center Party support. Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, it is essential that every person should be able to contribute to our common society according to their abilities and be able to participate in society. Civil society actors are often the fastest in place when there is a need for organised cooperation between people. There are many examples of civil society often succeeding very well in things that government agencies with many billions in funds may fail to do. That is why we want to reinforce this effect and give civil society even better opportunities to develop its work. These actors are already making invaluable efforts to create confidence in the future and cohesion and to be a contact-making area. It is also, as I said, the associations, organisations and communities that are often the fastest in place when urgent needs for support and cooperation arise. We could see it when, for a short but intense period, many people sought refuge here in our country. Civil society organisations were there first and quickly. We see it now, too, when support is needed to get into our society. Then there are the Red Cross, the church and the religious communities in place, as well as the sports club and the district farm association. There is also the education of the people and the cultural association. Civil society organisations are incredibly important players in the integration of new people into our society. But then it is also important for the public to pay attention to the important efforts of civil society organisations and to provide proper and adequate support. Mr President, I would like to Civil society needs to be given a better opportunity to contribute to greater participation in our society, because there are problems that need to be taken seriously. This may, for example, involve complicated regulations and a deterioration in remuneration. There is a need for simplification in the administration of support for associations. This applies, in particular, to those sections of civil society that work with efforts that lead to integration and community. The application process must be simple, efficient and smooth, and we must ensure that the voluntary involvement and functioning of associations are truly valued for what they bring to our society. As I said, there are problems with the structure of the civil society subsidy system. Much of the support to civil society organisations consists of project grants at the expense of the basic support. This makes the activities difficult to manage, which in turn may hinder the development of the activities, contrary to the purpose of project grants. Projects are good when you want to develop your business and maybe find new ways and try new ideas for your business. But there must also be the opportunity to work with their activities and develop their basic activities without having to come up with new project ideas all the time in order to apply for new project grants. In order to strengthen civil society's ability to be even more rapid and flexible in addressing society's challenges, we in the Center Party want to see an increased share of basic support in the contributions from the public. Mr President, I would like to The work of civil society and associations plays a very important role in the positive development of society at large, not least in rural areas and in smaller communities where civil society through associations and communities takes a major responsibility for the development of the community. The meeting places that civil society organisations create are important in a much broader and deeper perspective than just the specific mission they have taken on. Meeting and organising and engaging together will benefit both the individual and, in the long run, society as well. If even more children and young people, but also adults, get their eyes open to associations, we can continue to develop our society in a positive direction and counteract segregation in order to build bridges. However, I would like to make it very clear that we can never tolerate the existence of organisations, associations and religious communities which in any way show that they accept honour-related crime. Such organisations shall never be supported by the State through public funds. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to quote a few lines from the Center Party's programme of ideas: our democracy, demographic development and people's desire for increased power over their own daily lives require increased scope for voluntary work, association work and social and cultural entrepreneurship. Sport, voluntary social work and amateur culture are clear examples of how civil society creates cohesion, integration and engagement. The task of politics is to remove obstacles and clear the way for this development power. If the public is becoming too ambitious, taking on more and more tasks and guaranteeing more and more parts of people's lives, this risks countering the voluntary initiatives that would have arisen in its place. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to We know from the Center Party that politics can support civil society by involving it in more processes, financing its infrastructure and taxing it as little as possible.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-447	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes there is talk of a decline in non-profit involvement. But we have a very strong union life in our country. People spend time training youth teams, baking cakes and making coffee at the local community association, arranging concerts, supporting violent women and raising money for homeless people. Evenings and weekends are filled with association activities. In fact, it is teeming with people who want to do something for their environment, for their community and for the future. It is very hopeful that it still looks like this in our society. Here in Parliament and in shop windows in the Old Town you can see an exhibition about the emergence of the Swedish people okratin, which is now celebrating 100 years. At the beginning of the century, the voting movement, the labour movement and the sobriety movement managed to organize hundreds of thousands of people without the internet and social media to help. It was poverty and hunger that pushed, but also the realization that it was possible to change when people merged, that the social order was not given by Gud but that people can and have the right to have a dignified future here on earth. Today's association life is to some extent different. Some of the great popular movements lost members when society changed for the better. Many may feel that a strong welfare state has reduced the need for social movements. But the commitment has not ended, but sought new ways. In many ways it has become easier to be active in associations. Contributions from the public sector have enabled many associations to have an employee who is responsible for part of the administrative work and makes it easier for the non-profit-making community. Facilities, equipment and other support are also provided. But with grants there can come a lot of wishes from the state and the municipality. There will be requirements for applications, reporting, follow-up and financial reporting. A very laudable political eagerness to account for where tax money goes is often behind these decisions. It is very important that there is transparency also around contributions to non-profit organisations. Rather, the question is how it is expected to report, how often and by what degree of detail. When more and more can be done digitally, it is easy to create evaluation forms, surveys and reporting systems. Everything is available online, we say, and the number of association advisors can decrease in the municipalities. When more and more of the grants are awarded for short periods, more and more time needs to be spent filling in applications and reporting results. Many associations also signal that it doesn't seem to matter how successful a project has been – it is still very difficult to get money for continued operations. Instead, you have to make up new things. It is tiring and a waste of both financial and human resources, I would say. Mr President, I would like to We must be careful of the voluntary commitment. A few years ago, a state inquiry was set up which resulted in the Palett report for a strengthened civil society. It shows that greater knowledge is needed in public administrations, decision-making bodies and authorities on civil society conditions. From the Left side we would have liked to have seen that this solid investigation had resulted in a bill. Last autumn, in this House, we discussed a letter outlining what the government has done to improve the conditions of association, and there were many positive elements. Unfortunately, it did not feel as if the government took this holistic approach that we feel is needed, and so today we are dealing with the comprehensive Left Party exercise in this area. We propose a review to simplify administration and review consumer and competition law in order to ensure that the distinctive character of associations has an impact. It is important that non-profit work and economic associations are not treated as public limited liability companies and that impact assessments are carried out in new legislation in order to identify whether the wording is adapted to the conditions of non-profit organisations. It is not an easy task at all; I am the first to admit it. The mere fact that we are throwing ourselves into the debate with different concepts confuses. We're talking about associations, non-profit organisations and civil society – it's confusing. Nor is it a homogeneous group we are talking about. It is about different sizes in terms of both membership and economy. Some have the task of providing services to municipalities and regions, while others have the task of getting a board together. This places high demands on us as legislators and on our party colleagues at local and regional level. It is impossible to create rules and support functions adapted to exactly each organisation, but we still need to have the ambition to capture as many aspects as possible when making decisions. Mr President, I would like to Now I have touched on the importance of reducing administrative burdens, adapting the regulatory framework and increasing knowledge among authorities and decision-makers about civil society conditions. I would also like to touch on the issue of influence. For the Left Party, it is a central democracy issue that local organisations operating where people actually live are heard and given opportunities to influence development. Civil society organisations contribute in their role as voice carriers to the visibility of a variety of ideas and perceptions and to the representation in public of the interests and opinions of different groups in the population. Social cohesion is also strengthened when more people are involved. My experience with the work here in the Riksdag is that there are good contacts with civil society. In our opinion, decision-makers and decision-makers at different levels need to involve and interact with civil society organisations. If we do this at an early stage, decisions that form the basis for sustainable social development can be made. In order for civil society to be able to fulfil its important role as a voice carrier, it must have good economic conditions. This is a balancing act: how much should we control the contributions? If we want a variety of votes, we cannot try to destroy all associations in the same form. During the last term of office, the Left Party, together with the government, made major investments in sports, public education and free cultural life, for example. These were very important and much-needed reforms. Unfortunately, it wasn't enough. In fact, many government contributions to civil society have been stagnating for a decade, while wages have increased and the premises have become more expensive. Many associations are forced to compensate for this loss with increased fees. For the Left Party, which is serious about more people being able to act as associations, these fees must not constitute a threshold. We will therefore continue to work to strengthen the finances of non-profit organisations in the future. Mr President, I would like to I choose to vote in favour of reservation 9 only, even if I support all the proposals of the Left Party.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-463	Mr President, I would like to I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for time to come I only call for reservation 10. Isaac Neikter prevented a tragedy by a few seconds. When a man fell down on the subway track and became unconscious, 19-year-old instinctively acted. "I didn't think at all, but understood that he needed my help," Isaac says. Anne-Elisabeth-Elisabeth, 63, crashed violently on highway 70. When she was lying with severe neck injuries in a wrecked car intervened Angelica Holm, 32. I'm very grateful. I'll give her a bouquet of flowers, says Anne-Elisabeth. Little Nora suddenly becomes lifeless at several thousand meters. No doctor is on the plane, but a BVC nurse sees that something is happening. "I take her up and pain stimuli with my fist at the sternum and then she gets started again" says Malin Wallberg, 49. These are three examples of volunteers. They are our heroes, and there are many of them in our country. It is a matter of civil courage, but at the same time it is a part of civil society. The fact is that our country cannot make it without these great non-profit efforts. It is people who forget their own self for the sake of another person and go into service to others, often without demanding anything back. Civil society has everything from networks, temporary associations and non-profit associations to foundations, cooperatives and voluntary activities like those I have just described. Many efforts are made by churches and religions. I myself have visited St. Clara's church on several occasions here in the centre of the capital. Every day it distributes food and other things on Sergel's square. If you go there on Thursday morning, you can attend a mass. I was there a few weeks ago. The priest and the deacons hold the fair, and then there are a number of carriages with food from restaurants, bakeries and grocery stores to the 100 people in the church who have registered and received a number tag because they need food. They belong to the homeless – the poorest of the poor in our society. Faith groups have long made life easier for many people who live in vulnerable situations. How, then, can policy play a part in creating opportunities for these efforts? We work with the conditions of civil society, including opportunities to form organisations, to receive state support, to conduct non-profit activities and to involve people. Support for the religions is important in many respects. If this aid were to be reduced or phased out, it would have a major impact on the activities of the religions. It would also put the religions in a worse position in relation to the Church of Sweden. The aid is of great importance because it also provides an opportunity to carry out a religious activity on equal terms. When it comes to state support to various organisations, the Riksdag decided in spring 2018 not to provide support to associations and organisations that accept or even legitimise honour-related repression and honour traditions. Honour-related violence and oppression have unfortunately become everyday for many young people in Sweden. It is estimated that over 100 000 girls and boys will be restricted because of the oppression of honour. These norms and values do not belong in a modern legal society. Therefore, measures must be taken to ensure that no public funds are paid to associations or religious communities carrying out child-sacrifices and sanctioning other honour-related crime. Mr President, I would like to The survey Palett for a strengthened civil society from 2016 raised a number of proposals to increase the conditions for civil society to work. But not one of the proposals of the investigation was taken into account and made into a workshop by the previous government. It was a letter and not a proposal with proposals, as Mr Vasiliki has just said here in the speaker's chair. Some of the proposals concerned the skills-enhancing efforts of public actors at state, regional and local level to better meet civil society needs. The study also proposed introducing a requirement for the Authority to identify the economic and other consequences for civil society organisations when introducing new rules. The vast majority of the consultation bodies were in favour of these proposals. But the red-green government chose not to introduce it. There were many more feasible proposals in the investigation, such as increasing civil society's opportunities to participate in procurement and reducing regulatory issues for civil society organisations. In a motion we Christian Democrats are calling for this very thing. Mr President, I would like to Deduction rights for donations to non-profit organisations were introduced by the Alliance on the initiative of the Christian Democrats but were removed by the previous government. Let's see what happens to this in the future. All countries in Europe have gift tax deductions and encourage individuals and companies to give gifts to the non-profit sector – all except Sweden. The Christian Democrats' sister party Kristelig f olkepartiet in Norway pushed through the gift tax deduction in 2000. At that time, the maximum sum was SEK 900. In 2019 the maximum amount is SEK 50,000 per person per year. Tax deduction has more than doubled since 2005. In 2015, almost NOK 3.5 billion was donated within the gift tax credit. All parties in Norway, from left to right, are today behind the gift tax deduction. We need to introduce the same system in Sweden. It would probably mean a huge boost for non-profit organisations and create new opportunities for social efforts and research and for people in need of help and support. Although Sweden had a relatively small gift deduction, the impact was large and growing before the deduction was removed. In the first year, 2012, 195 000 people took advantage of the opportunity. The last year, 2015, 333 000 people took part in the tax reduction to a total amount of SEK 290 million. Organisations such as Plan Sweden and Stockholm Stadsmission have told us that they received as much as 15 million SEK more per year. A couple of opinion polls have measured the Swedish people's willingness to give and their view of tax relief for charitable purposes. As always, you should take polls with a pinch of salt, but the results point in the same direction: Improved private finances increase giving. Most people think a tax reduction is good. There is therefore no lack of will among the Swedish people. It is time that Sweden became normal in a European perspective in this area. For us Christian Democrats, this is an important cornerstone of the construction of good society, in which people's generosity is exploited. I would like to conclude with a quote from Anders Arborelius, Catholic Bishop and Cardinal, who visited us here in Parliament this morning. He said, "It is important that we build bridges between people instead of building walls." .....................................................
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-483	Mr President, I would like to There is a struggle for democracy, partly in silence. When nationalism and extremism in various guises spread out as a dark shadow over the world and over our time, we must ask ourselves whether and how we want to fight. When we debate civil society today, that is precisely what we are debating: the fight for democracy. For nationalists and extremists, simply called anti-democrats, civil society is an obstacle and a threat. Civil society organisations, whatever their interests, contribute to an important component of democracy: strengthening trust between people. When people meet and dare to express their thoughts loudly, dare to be critical of each other and dare to hook arms with each other around a specific question, a sense of belonging and trust arises. We learn from each other, and we realize that it is possible together to influence and change. We learn to trust each other. When anti-democrats work to weaken civil society, it is to sow doubts and create a culture of fear and suspicion. They want to create a feeling that there are no common interests; there are only us against them. They want to break trust between people so that we do not dare to believe that the best decisions we make together. Without that conviction, democracy cannot survive. Mr President, I would like to Civil society is under attack globally. Just between 2012 and 2018, over 120 laws were written in about 50 countries around the world that limit civil society's ability to influence. The laws are, in general, about stricter state supervision of the work of the organisations and about limiting their resources. And only in 2017 were over 300 human rights and environmental defenders murdered simply because they organised and committed themselves to injustice. How does this affect civil society in Sweden? The trend that we see around Europe and the world has no immunity from Sweden. Here in Sweden too, there are anti-democratic forces and a parliamentary party that looks with admiration at the development of countries such as Poland and Hungary, where the anti-democratic trend has taken hold. They dream of government power to realize their political ambitions. Mr President, I would like to However, Swedish civil society is unique. It consists of 244,000 organisations. In these, half of the Swedish adult population work on a voluntary basis, and they spend an average of 15 hours a month. Here people can be part of a social relationship, feel meaningful and have the opportunity to develop in different ways. They do everything from leading hockey practices, organising poetry evenings, organising festival parties and protecting their housing association to making emergency rescue operations, as when the Swedish forests burned this summer. Here people meet daily and build on the trust that is the tickle of our democratic society. Mr President, I would like to In order for Swedish civil society to remain strong and develop, good and long-term conditions are of great importance. Here is the contribution and the form of this decision. It is important to get away from short-term funding aimed only at specific projects. On the other hand, the policy, as well as the sector itself, has an important responsibility to ensure that tax funds are not used for activities that may be discriminatory and are contrary to democracy and human rights. To this end, the government has appointed a special investigator to undertake a review. The review aims to ensure that public funds go to organisations whose activities do not conflict with the fundamental values of society. However, it is equally important to counteract all forms of detailed governance of civil society organisations. It is only in this way that civil society's independence and specificity can be defended. Mr President, I would like to We have a strong civil society in Sweden. This means that we have all the more reason to protect it from all attacks. The strength of a democracy is determined by the strength of its civil society. When someone attacks civil society, the very foundations of our democracy are attacked. Here in Sweden too, freedom of association, freedom of expression and human rights are being called into question. For us as democrats, there is nothing more important than defending these values together with civil society. With these words, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-495	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson, for your fine speech about civil society! I appreciated it. Nevertheless, I would like to ask a question about the right to deduct gifts. We have had RUT look into this, and of all 29 countries they have looked at, only Sweden has no tax incentives whatsoever for individuals to donate to non-profit activities. Can we not agree that it is worthwhile that people are given the opportunity not only to give but also to have a tax reduction? When this was introduced, the maximum amount was SEK 6,000, and so you had to deduct 25 percent. So you had to deduct $1,500 (U.S.). You could actually give that money, if you wanted, to an organization. Since I thought that Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson had a very nice tone in his speech, I thought I should ask: Can we not agree that we could stimulate this generosity, which has been shown to increase among people, with a right of deduction for gifts?
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-499	Madam President, I would like I thank Roland Utbolt for the question. This is a question that I know concerns Roland Utbolt very much. I think it is an important issue, but, as I have also said in the past when we have had this debate, the most important thing is still to ensure that money to benefit civil society is used properly. This kind of tax reduction also removes a great deal of money from the state, money that could have been spent in a more long-term and thought-out way to invest in civil society. I do not think that we need this right of deduction in order for people to contribute to civil society. In Sweden we have long had and still have a strong tradition and culture of contributing and giving to organisations and associations that we think are important and that do good for society. I do not believe that the introduction of such a right of deduction will affect this giving.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-501	Madam President, I would like Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson says that the money, the lost tax funds, could have been used for something else worthwhile. But we really have no idea where that money would have gone. They could end up in something completely different, some road building somewhere or anything. What is so good about this right of deduction, which, as I have said, exists in all countries in Europe except Sweden, is that it is directed at these organisations. I repeat: the first year in which this tax credit was introduced, in 2012, 195 000 people used it. In 2015, 333,000 people used it. I don't think it's for selfish reasons. You can see that the money is directed, and then, as I said, you can also give that money if you want. In fact, Plan Sweden and Stockholm Stadsmission, to name but a few, describe that they received a total of SEK 15 million each year because of this – 15 million in extra money for Stadsmissionen due to the tax reduction. The Norwegian model is also a huge success. There, NOK 3,5 billion was distributed through the gift tax credit. I had hoped that we would find some sort of common denominator here, but it is a bit difficult. You seem to be stuck in this.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-505	Madam President, I would like Roland Utbolt says he's not sure how the money would have been spent. The money had been spent on investing in culture, on education and on building the infrastructure needed for civil society to continue to operate and become stronger. For example, the money that we have now seen the M-KD budget take away from this area would not have had to be removed if tax funds did not disappear either. The money could have been used for investments in regions and municipalities, which could then have a stronger economy and thus also had the priority to invest in community life, in education, in giving culture a greater place in society and, once again, in infrastructures that are needed for civil society to function as well. Instead, what we see in municipality after municipality with a bourgeois majority around Sweden is that it is precisely in these areas that cuts are made. Tax funds are important, and it is important that they are used properly. I believe that the Swedish people are willing to continue to contribute to civil society regardless of whether this tax credit exists or not. I rather believe in using our tax funds with care. We will use them to build a stronger welfare society where culture, education and civil society have a natural place.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-507	Madam President, I would like Non-profit activities are a major asset for society. It is forces that cannot or should not be governed by politicians and authorities. On the other hand, voluntary forces and efforts should be supported and encouraged. Volunteering in Sweden is strong. Adults and young people take part in safety walks on weekend nights – there are probably many of us in this hall who have been mothers and fathers or possibly grandparents in the city – helping homeless people and engaging in honour repression. Pensioners take time for voluntary work in connection with schools and leisure activities. Churches, communities and other non-profit organizations offer food and a bed to sleep in. The list of actions can be made long. The Moderates want to encourage increased collaboration and cooperation between social services, school health services, youth psychiatry and the non-profit sector, such as sports associations and the cultural sector. There are great opportunities to make use of each other's knowledge and commitment. Here, the state can be given the task of systematically compiling good examples of collaborations that exist between sports associations or cultural activities and various activities within social services and schools. This may include more social secretaries working in external service together with other field personnel, for example in mobile teams with police in the evenings and weekends. Madam President, I would like Both children and young people and their parents are at risk of being squeezed between the responsibilities and responsibilities of different authorities. This applies not least to exclusion areas and to honour-related problems. Activities characterised by stress and understaffing tend not to be able to cooperate with other activities. In order for more cooperation to take place between social services, schools, health care, psychiatry, police and the non-profit sector, a different approach is needed than today. It is central to analyse and use the good examples of increased cooperation and cooperation between smaller municipalities and between county councils/regions and municipalities. State support for civil society is important and should continue. However, in order for the aid to be considered legitimate, the scheme must be transparent. The eligibility criteria shall be clear and there shall be a thorough examination and follow-up of the use made of the aid. Tax money should never be paid out to organisations that do not share the fundamental democratic values of Swedish society. Madam President, I would like The good society we create together. The Moderates believe that some of the responses to the challenges we see in society are precisely in a systematically deepened and improved cooperation between school, health care, social services, care for the elderly, culture and civil society. However, it requires clear political signals that this is a priority and important work. Civil society organisations are often the first to meet new arrivals. If you are a believer or have engaged in artistic or sporting activities in your former home country, it will be natural for you to seek out, for example, a church or mosque, a choir or a football team to build a base for life in the new country in an environment that is reasonably familiar. I just came from a business visit to the Swedish Football Federation, which is one of the largest sports federations in Sweden. They are very good at this with how the non-profit sector and sport can be used for children who are newly arrived in Sweden. They capture them in a very nice way for integration into Swedish society. Language is the very basis for entering society. The contact areas of civil society offer the opportunity not only to social contacts and to engage in personal interests but also to receive Swedish language education in a more systematic way. Attempts have come to an end, and the government should come back with proposals to increase the ability of NGOs to teach Swedish. Madam President, I would like Idéburet public partnership, IOP, is a partnership between the idea-based and the public sector. When a public authority and an idea-based organisation enter into a partnership, they together define a societal challenge. The Moderates believe that the IOP is a way to deepen cooperation between the public and the non-profit. The IOP in its current form has been around for a number of years and the government should therefore evaluate this work and make proposals for further deepening cooperation.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-519	Madam President, I would like I won't keep you for a long time. You may notice that the Liberals are having some logistical problems here today because Christer Nylander is not here. In the absence of him, I would like to endorse Amendment No 8 on the contribution to civil society. Thank you for not taking the floor.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-521	Madam President, I would like A nation's greatness and moral progress can be judged by how to treat its animals. These are said to be the winged words of Mahatma Gandhis, but they could and should also be what we all stand for, for the welfare of animals concerns us all. We influence the lives of all animals by the way we choose to live our lives, the way we consume food, clothing and things, and when we choose our political representatives to this House, who make laws that apply to both animals and people. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating animal welfare, and it is precisely the protection of animals that is important in this debate – not the animal industry, but the animals themselves and how we can improve for them. Madam President, I would like I'm a person who's interested in science fiction. Not least, I'm a Star Trek fan. In science fiction books, films and series, it is not uncommon to look back on what is now, the beginning of the 21st century, or perhaps a few hundred years ahead, and describe our time as barbaric. We are destroying the climate and eradicating biodiversity at a terrible rate. Every year, we lock up billions of animals after billions of animals in factories – thinking, sentient animals – and breed them for rapid body growth and for slaughter. In the future, and not only in science fiction, I am convinced that humanity will look back at this period and wonder what we were doing. Madam President, I would like We can do something about this. We can do things better. Let us make sure that we now make changes and improvements properly. Let us make sure that future generations can at least be a little forgiving to those of us who are living here right now. Let's do this for real. In fact, we have already taken a very important step, and we did so with the new Animal Welfare Act that came into force this month here in Sweden. It is a great victory for all who have fought for animal rights and an important step on the road to the future. With effect from 1 April, the abandonment of animals is expressly prohibited. This is new in the Animal Welfare Act and is a very important change. All owners must have the skills to meet the needs of their animals. There are two clear regulatory constraints that are now contained in the new Animal Welfare Act. The new Animal Welfare Act also contains a new, clearer definition of what natural behaviour for animals is. It is an incredibly important part of the new Animal Welfare Act. The text contained in the new Animal Welfare Act, which deals with the natural behaviour of animals, states that animals should be kept and managed in a good animal environment and in such a way as to promote their welfare, that they can carry out behaviours for which they are strongly motivated and which are important for their well-being, that is to say, natural behaviour, and that behavioural disorders are prevented. This clearer definition can mean a great deal to both domestic animals and animals reared for slaughter if the law is properly applied. I sincerely hope, and I know that there are many of us who do, that this letter will have an impact on the new regulations that the Swedish Board of Agriculture will produce in connection with the new Animal Welfare Act. It can mean amazing changes and improvements for millions of animals. There are also other important advances in the new law that are worth mentioning, not least lex Maja, after the cat Maja, which means that for many civil servants there is now the opportunity to report when one sees an animal suffering or mismanaged in some way. It is a new opportunity that is incredibly important and that will be able to make life better for many animals. Madam President, I would like Although we hope a lot for the new Animal Welfare Act, of course we should not be satisfied with it alone. We are pleased with it, but there should also be an opportunity to move forward. Sweden must continue to be a front-runner in the field of animal welfare. We are today, but there are things that can get better-- absolutely significantly better. If we are to continue to be a pioneer country, we must constantly draw up proposals, follow up the animal life and do everything we can to protect the animals. It must be an ongoing process. In this context, when it comes to the welfare of animals in the future, I and many of us were dismayed when we heard that the Moderates, Christian Democrats, SD and Liberals and the Centres decided to abolish the county council's testing of animal stalls. Testing of animal stalls is undoubtedly a basic bolt in Swedish animal welfare. This means that before a new animal house is to be built for chickens or cows, for example, the building plans are checked by the County Administrative Board to ensure that the minimum rules for animal welfare and rights are respected. Often it can be about the size of boxes or the design of surfaces so that the animals do not harm themselves. The trial here in Sweden was introduced in the 1970s and is seen by many other countries as a role model, just as Sweden's animal welfare is. Many representatives, not least in the field of research, but also on the part of the authorities, as well as many farmers, have pointed out and been happy about this. It is, as I said earlier, an important base bolt and also a base bolt in the possibility of preventing diseases and injuries in animals. If there are fewer injuries and diseases, we will also be able to use less antibiotics. One can say that one of the most important parts of that we have so little use of antibiotics in Sweden is the testing of animal stalls. If you have good animal stables, the animals do not get sick the same way, and then you do not need to use antibiotics. Now, then, the right-wing parties and the extreme right want to jointly remove the testing of animal stalls, and that without any very substantiated arguments. You blame the lyrics that you write for being too administrative and complicated. Madam President, I would like I would like to say one thing to the right-wing parties. I think it is pitiful, that it is shameful and that you should be ashamed. You say that you want to protect animals and that Sweden should have the world's leading animal welfare, and you propose this. I think it's shameful. We were all able to read on Saturday that leading experts in the field spoke in Svenska Dagbladet. They were people with backgrounds as veterinarians and in research, but also within the authorities. It is a very good article in Svenska Dagbladet. I've got this if there's anyone else who wants to read it. I hope everyone in here has read it. Above all, I hope that the bourgeois representatives have read it so that they know the consequences of the proposal which they intend to vote on here at 4 p.m. today. As I said, I copied it. I'd be happy to give it to you. I've even brought in so that it's possible to staple a little. I didn't get that on the way, but there's a possibility over there so you can get your own copy. I would like to praise the authors of the articles. They speak and stand up for those who cannot make their voices heard. These are the millions of animals at risk of being exposed to greater risks, injuries and diseases as a result of the policy of the bourgeois parties. I also commend the authors of the articles for standing up for these animals, who obviously do not have their own Instagram accounts or Facebook opportunities where they can protest against bourgeois policy in this case. I would just like to say to the authors of the articles and the millions of animals living in our country: here is one more person who is going to stand up for you. I don't have alone either. Together with me, there are 143 more parliamentary committees in the Left and the Green Party that will also be on your side in today's vote. The right parties, representatives of the bourgeois parties and, for that matter, the Swedish Democrats: it is not too late for you to change your mind on this issue. You have until 4:00. If you have not read the article, I hope that you will be happy to come to me and pick it up and change your position during this debate. Madam President, I would like There is an incredible amount more I would like to talk about today about animal welfare. But that is clearly not possible because of the time aspect. I would like to talk about the more than 150 million animals that are killed every day, and they are only land animals. I would like to talk about the 56 billion land animals killed each year. I would also like to talk about all the fish that die every year because of fishing. Almost 3 billion animals are killed every day if you add the fish to the land animals. These are enormous figures for how many animals mankind kills every day in this world. It's horrible, and it's untenable. We will come back to this debate and the work on animal rights. The work on animal rights must be strengthened and continued every day. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report. I want to finish with the words I started my speech with. A nation's greatness and moral progress can be judged by how to treat its animals.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-545	Madam President, I would like The team is obviously behind all our reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 5. Sweden has among the world's highest demands on environmental and animal welfare. This is something we are proud of and that we see as important added value for Swedish agriculture and food production. Good animal welfare also means that our animals are healthier and, compared to other countries, they get considerably less antibiotics. It's important. According to Food and Drug Administration data, in 2011 livestock farming accounted for 80% of the world's consumption of antibiotics. It's not sustainable. In all over-consumption of antibiotics, there is also the risk of multi-resistant bacteria taking form, such as different types of MRSA. It is bacteria that can be transmitted to humans. For health care, resistant bacteria are a serious threat. Because when antibiotics no longer work, even a normal operation can become life-threatening. The European Institute for Disease Control estimates that 25 000 deaths per year in the EU alone are due to multi-resistant bacteria. It was therefore high time for the EU to do more in the area of responsible use of antibiotics with the establishment of a new regulation introduced in 2022 on veterinary medicinal products. But it is also a question of monitoring compliance with the regulation. We know very well that there are shortcomings in this area. Just a few years ago, the European Court of Auditors reviewed how the EU Animal Welfare Strategy 2012 – 2015 had worked or, rather, had not worked. What was found, for example, was that the routine tail hive that occurs on the majority of pigs reared in the Union remains. Despite a six-year-old ban on animal testing for cosmetics, it still exists. Other examples included the transport of animals, which has even caused the European Parliament to react. It now calls on the Commission to fine Member States that have not properly implemented the laws. There is even talk of confiscating vehicles that have been used to transport animals. These are issues where Sweden should be very active both in monitoring and in ensuring that not only Swedish farm animals but also all EU cows, pigs and poultry are given increased protection. In addition, it would improve the situation of Swedish producers who currently find it difficult to charge for legal requirements, despite the fact that this represents a very high added value compared to other alternatives. Unfortunately, with far-reaching legal requirements, there is a risk that costs will increase so much that businesses will not be able to compete. This in turn could lead to the closure of activities and the replacement of products by imported alternatives. This is a development we do not want to see any more of. Today we already know that about half of the meat we eat is imported from other countries. Madam President, I would like On 1 April, a new law on animal welfare began to apply. The Moderates had certainly expected more of the new legislation than several new investigations. Nevertheless, we are in favour of the new law being put in place. Now, for example, there is a ban on using elephants and sea lions in circuses and abandoning domestic animals as cats. It also introduces skills requirements for all those caring for animals. It's very important. Healthcare professionals are also given the right to break the confidentiality and sound the alarm if they see animals getting hurt in caretakers. Another current issue is that this weekend there were cows released on some sixty farms around Sweden. Unfortunately, however, there were some farms that at the last moment cancelled their events as a result of militant animal rights activists having posed threats in different contexts. The fact that livestock farmers are threatened in this way is totally unacceptable. Apart from threats to the farmer, and perhaps to his family, it is also a question of threats to property rights, threats to vital nutrition and threats to animals. Animal rights activists trespassing on farms not only pose a physical threat, but can also cause great harm to animals by carrying infectivity that the animals have never been exposed to before and thereby giving them a reduced level of immune protection. That is why we politicians, and especially the police, must do everything we can to stop the harassment of militant animal rights activists. Here the government has made promises, and we also hope that they will be implemented. Madam President, I would like This report also contains an announcement. This means that a majority of Parliament's parties want to simplify the process in connection with the construction or conversion of animal houses. You heard the previous speaker say that he was appalled, that it was pitiful and shameful and that we should be ashamed. What the question is about is that one should still build legally. There is no requirement whatsoever to impair animal welfare or the design of the premises for appropriate animal welfare. We call on the government to abolish the requirement for mandatory testing in the context, but this does not mean that inspection of the halls will be carried out, just as it is today. I do not understand what the previous speaker is talking about. For their profitability, keepers are fully dependent on the sustainability of livestock production and the welfare of the animals. There is much to discuss further. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the attitude of the Moderates. We believe that compensation for animal welfare should be more closely linked to results that ensure animal welfare. Today, there is a lot of focus on taking action, it should be done or done so, in order to get some kind of compensation. But we believe that we need to focus much more on results. That is also what is in the new common agricultural policy that the EU is presenting and which the government supports. Madam President, I would like A profitable Swedish food production in general and livestock production in particular is an opportunity to provide Sweden – us – with food that is characterized by high quality and safety while also taking into account the environment and animal welfare. It also provides the opportunity to export good food and knowledge to other countries. We want to protect and develop that.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-563	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the partial answer! I would like to begin by asking the most important question of the testing of animal housing. I put the question to the representative of the Moderates: in what way will it be better for the animals to abolish the testing of animal stalls? That is the issue of animal welfare, and animal welfare is essentially about prevention. It is a legitimate question to find out what the Moderates have in mind. In what way will it be better for animals to stop testing animal stalls? Then I have a second question. Can the representative of the Moderates guarantee today that when the testing of animal stalls is abolished, which will probably happen because the Parliament votes so today, that it will not require increased antibiotic use? I said in my previous speech that the testing of animal housing is a fundamental element of animal welfare legislation. It has meant that in many places there are good animal stalls where the animals do not get so bad. Of course animals get hurt by being trapped, but they don't get as bad as they could in an animal industry. This has meant that we have not had to use so much antibiotics. If we are now to remove the testing of animal houses, have we considered the consequences for the animals at all? Have consideration been given to the consequences for the use of antibiotics?
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-568	Madam President, I would like The animals must be fine. It's statutory. It is also statutory how to take the animals into account. The fact that it then does not happen in a preliminary examination of the county administrative board – I have produced all the different drawings and other things that are required for a preliminary examination – nevertheless means that it is the tasks that the county administrative board will inspect afterwards. No rational farmer builds something that is feared to have to be demolished in order to be rebuilt. I do not think that Magnus Manhammar would, and I do not think that anyone else who is responsible and also animal owners would do so. As I said in my speech, the farmer's profitability depends on the farmer's animals being well. Therefore, I cannot see that there is a danger of moving away from ensuring good animal welfare. The county administrative board can decide on periodic penalty payments because it has begun to build before the test results have been given, but it can also simply be imposed a ban on animals. I don't think anyone wants to risk that. It is interesting that when the representative of the Social Democrats talks about trial, he mentions that the opposition wants to do so because it wants to relax the administration. It is, in fact, an argument you yourself use in your reservation, and it is a little strange that you are criticising us for this.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-572	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Betty Malmberg! This is such an important issue that I think we should stick to the issue itself. The point is that there are millions of animals that will move into newly built stables without the stables having been checked. That's the reality. I obviously did not get an answer to that question, but there is no impact assessment at all from the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats on the abolition of trials. You go in blindfolded and hope it will be good. It's irresponsible and shameful. I am ashamed to be a politician in a chamber where you behave that way towards living animals. It is not just any industry. It could have been an industry that produces lego or cars – it might not have had the same consequences – but here it is animals that are produced. They're living things-- they feel, they live, they think-- and you have to have some kind of respect for that. There are examples where there is no testing of animal houses, for example in Denmark. There are many horror examples of how faulty buildings and systems for animals have been built. Afterwards, they have been rejected by veterinarians and county administrative boards, and then completely redeployed. There have been very unnecessary costs and much unnecessary suffering for animals. Not even looking at Denmark and seeing what can happen before a decision is made is a risk. This is what the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties think. It's irresponsible. Yesterday Frida Lundmark Hedman, a doctor at SLU, wrote about these issues and compared them with changing traffic rules. There are certain rules to be followed. If you start removing traffic rules, the question is how to do it. Maybe you should have a rule that means that you should drive as well as possible. Maybe there shouldn't be speed rules, right-hand rule or anything else. It's irresponsible of the Moderates.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-578	Madam President, I would like There is nothing more important for an animal owner, or an animal-holding farmer, than to ensure good animal welfare and to promote animal welfare and health. I repeat this because it is at hand when we are discussing this issue. By no means do we re-examine and by no means remove all the regulations on how to secure animal welfare in the new animal houses. I'm surprised Magnus Manhammar doesn't hear what I'm saying. In fact, this is what it says in the information that is being tested today: although the County Administrative Board has had a trial, it may still prohibit animal husbandry in the space unless it finds that the space is approved afterwards. This can also happen today because it has not been built according to the guidelines that exist and exist. In addition, what has been built must be inspected before it can be used. These are the rules that apply today. We have not talked about removing those rules. We have talked about removing the first test, because we believe in the farmer there. We also believe in the developer, who has to take responsibility for simply building in accordance with existing guidelines.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-581	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are obviously behind all their reservations, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 18 and 20. We have in Sweden an animal husbandry and a control system with authorities and supervisory bodies that we should be proud of. My experience is that our meat producers add great joy and pride to what they do. You care about animals and nature, and you want to give us consumers a good product. It keeps our countryside alive and our landscapes open and guarantees our self-sufficiency and independence. Not only is profitability sought, but my view is that sustainability and good husbandry are also sought in the activities. You care about animals and nature and the countryside you live in. They want to contribute and are passionate about what they do, often in activities that have been inherited for generations. The new Animal Welfare Act states that outdoor operation promotes animal health and the possibility of natural behaviour in animals. There's something we're signing up to. Despite this, there are requirements in the legislation that are perceived as problematic for many beef producers who want the animals to be freed all year round. In this case, I am talking about the lay-out requirement. For those nut producers who, for various reasons, cannot or do not want lounging halls, it is both expensive and complicated today, despite the fact that in some cases the animals are able to go out without them. Therefore, we want to investigate how the regulations can be changed so that we make it easier for producers to keep animals outdoors where the conditions are. Madam President, I would like Animal husbandry must be required. It's supposed to be right and right. The animals should be fine. It's a good thing, something we should generally be proud of. But not all countries have the same respect and respect for animals as we do. Not all countries operate under the same conditions, and this creates an imbalance in competition. There are some more things to do to improve and simplify the work of our producers that allow us to keep their costs down without compromising animal welfare. According to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, 9 out of 10 dairy producers have closed between 1987 and 2017. Bring in that number! 9 out of 10 dairy producers are gone. They're not there anymore. We need to do what we can here. Rural death has been going on for 30 years, a period that spans both social-democratic and alliance-led governments, and is still ongoing. A Swedish farmer a day disappears. Small-scale meat and milk production are on their knees. It's really tough for small businesses in rural areas. It is difficult to operate on a smaller scale. This is increasingly moving towards large-scale production. In order for our producers not only to survive but also to be competitive in the EU's internal market, we need to get away from unnecessary and costly measures, while at the same time increasing requirements within the EU so that other countries improve their animal husbandry, reduce their antibiotic use and strive for a food production where we compete on equal terms. Today we don't. Competition is significantly limping, and that is worrying. This is worrying for the Swedish economy, but it is even more worrying in times when our surrounding world is stretching the muscles in our immediate vicinity. In the event of a conflict in our neighbourhood, we depend on our food production for survival. We need our food producers. We need to provide the industry with the conditions to be competitive. Madam President, I would like When it comes to animal husbandry, we in the Swedish Democrats welcome the new ban on the use of sea lions and elephants for public display in circuses, for example. Animal welfare is something we Swedish democrats devote great commitment and attach great importance to. We therefore want to further strengthen protection and continue to phase out non-domestic animals from this type of activity. In order to avoid border problems and make it more difficult to circumvent the rules by replacing those animals that are explicitly prohibited with those that are not on the list, we propose simply introducing a positive list. Instead of banning certain animal species, we want to introduce a reverse list listing all permitted species. All animals that are not on the list are then automatically banned. Controls are currently being carried out on the stationary storage and transport of animals. I don't know about you, but if I get a visitor, I'd like to try to make it look good at home. I think the same applies to those who hold animals for display – if you wait for visits, you make sure that it looks good. That is why we want to see more unannounced checks carried out today on them. The controls shall be used to protect animals and to detect deficiencies rather than be cosmetics. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention our most popular pet, the domestic cat. Cats' rights are something that concerns me a little bit extra, as I myself and many of my Swedish democratic colleagues have or have had cats. If you don't have a cat, you probably know someone who does. Unfortunately, cats sometimes get driven to death on the roads. If you're lucky, it's someone of good heart who wants to find out and notify the owner. Unfortunately, it is not always easy to track cat owners. They rarely know what happened to their beloved pets. There are those who leave sommarkatter to their fate at the farmhouse in the belief that they will fend for themselves. They rarely do. There are also cats exposed to neglect or outright cruelty to animals without knowing who is responsible or who is the owner. We therefore want to introduce mandatory labelling and registration of domestic cats, as is currently statutory for dogs. This is to increase the control and the ability to follow up cats and thus reduce mismanagement and raise the status of the cat. We in the Swedish Democrats also mentioned this last year, but despite the new Animal Welfare Act nothing has happened. Now they are waiting for the results of an investigation that is said to be completed by the end of the summer. We Swedish democrats will follow the results of this investigation with great interest. But let us not drag things along and hide the best of animals in party political procrastinations and endless investigations, but let us make sure that something actually happens here. It's time! Let us raise the status of the domestic cat by ensuring that it receives at least the same rights and protection as our other best friend, the dog.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-600	Madam President, I would like We are debating animal welfare, and I think it is important to put various issues in context. When it comes to animal welfare, something that we are proud of, it is often also a question of rural development and, not least, opportunities for entrepreneurship in both small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas. For us in the Center Party, it is important that there are good rules everywhere. But not everything has to be completely uniform, it has to be equal. That is why I see a great profit in that many regulations have actually started to become more linked to results and not always based on bureaucracy. For the Center Party, it is incredibly important that rural areas can develop in many different ways. We want to work for the most modern countryside in the world. It exists in some places, but we could have a completely different capacity for development throughout our country than is the case today. Swedish food producers are world leaders in animal health. They have a restrictive use of antibiotics in animal husbandry, and they produce food in a climate-smart, environmentally friendly and sustainable way. I'm very proud of that. At the same time, we see that the added value that Swedish food producers create in terms of open landscapes and by contributing in different ways to biodiversity is difficult to charge for, if I express myself a little simply. It is therefore important to review different parts so that our food companies in rural areas also have opportunities to grow in different ways. In order to increase the competitiveness of Swedish farmers, the regulatory burden must be reduced. Sometimes it is a bit tough, because many of the rules we have, Madam President, are those that have been created at a stage where there has been a need. But sometimes rules have come about because someone wants to ensure and control further. I look forward to looking more closely at the various sectoral programmes that have been linked to food security and also at how keepers themselves are given the opportunity to design something that is often better than the overly regulated programmes. I would like to go so far as to say that there would be a need for a regulatory simplification commission, which dares seriously to question the rules that often do not actually contribute to competitiveness but simply to increased bureaucracy. That is the purpose of the rules that should be the focus, not the bureaucracy, as is the case today. We are in the last month before the European elections, Madam President. These are issues that are often incredibly important to work on at European level. The Center Party has a long tradition of raising these issues in the European Parliament – from the former Minister for Agriculture Karl Erik Olsson via Lena Ek and Kent Johansson to, not least, Fredrick Federley, who is our Swedish parliamentarian today – and show that together with others you can really drive the development in the right direction. But it is necessary to get involved in these matters. Many people stand here in the Swedish parliament and say that it is important to get involved at EU level. But it is also important that parliamentarians representing Sweden get involved in these very important issues. There I feel safe with Fredrick Federley's capabilities in different ways. Madam President, let me be a little bold and say that this could be a cross tip for the elections at the end of May. I understand that everyone in this House naturally assumes that the European elections are important, but I would also like to address those who are watching and listening to this debate and making a call. If you think these issues are important, you can go in and look at which parliamentarians have run them in the European Parliament. For the sake of equality, I guess I'll have to venture to also make a suggestion on a woman you can cross. I am thinking of a West Swedish, strong and driving woman: Kristina Jonäng. There you have two hot tips from the Center Party – here you go! Madam President, I would like Of course, the Center Party supports all the reservations we have in this report, but I would like to call for the approval of reservation 21 only for time to come. It mentions different species, some of which are more petlike. However, on the basis of the reservation I have just made, I would like to highlight the importance of the horse in Swedish agriculture. In fact, a few years ago the horse industry itself had a turnover of more than 31 billion. It has great potential for development if it is considered an important part of the green industries. Today we can see that specific rules apply to the horse industry compared to other animal species in agriculture. That is why I am pleased – if I am going to lift the January agreement in this debate – that we have looked at this and that there are wordings about abolishing building permits in various areas linked to the horse industry. Today there is a municipality near me – I come from Skövde – an example of how it costs up to 30 000 – 40 000 to apply for a building permit for a riding stable. If you had built a machine hall instead, it wouldn't have been the same cost at all. In the municipality next door it costs only 5 000 – 6 000. Then competition is distorted, which affects the possibilities for these industries to develop well. It is incredibly important to look at the national horse strategy that many are behind. There are many good ideas. There is also testing of stables with. Allow me to comment on the previous speech by the debater from the Social Democrats, who said that the trial is the cornerstone of antibiotic use. Whether we have a compulsory pre-test or not, it is obvious that Swedish animal welfare rules apply. There will be no difference in that regard. That is why I do not quite understand the high tone on this issue. Madam President, I would like Animal welfare and rural competitiveness are important issues across Europe. I mentioned the role of the European Parliament. The use of antibiotics is, of course, an important part that has been worked on there; another is the long animal transport. It is important at this level to review compliance with animal welfare in different ways. Transport is one part and antibiotic use is another. For us in the Center Party, it is incredibly important that animal welfare issues are taken seriously and that it is monitored that this works in all European countries, not least from a competition perspective. In our other reservations, we also highlight the importance of obtaining a legally sound application of the Animal Welfare Act. Otherwise, both owners and keepers of animals as well as animal welfare inspectors may be affected, and it is therefore important to review the process and look at how to strengthen these parts so that it becomes legally secure. Therefore, in order to obtain an objective assessment in cases such as animal bans and trade bans, it would be best for the district court to take decisions, so that that part can be disconnected from the exercise of official authority. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me mention something that has been mentioned earlier in the debate. There are farmers in our country whose families have been subjected to crime linked to animal rights sex extremism. It is extremely tragic that people who have a democratic right to carry out activities that are legal are exposed in this way. That is why I am pleased that the police have intensified their work and that other actors are also coming in and working to change the legislation. The Minister has also talked about this and how legislation needs to be strengthened in order to ensure that criminal animal activism is effectively suppressed in all possible ways. Animal breeders who comply with laws and regulations should not have to fear for their safety in the way they often need to do today. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying that animal welfare in Sweden is fantastic in many ways, but it is also a bureaucratic burden. That is why a shift of perspective is needed to move from bureaucracy to seeing the results that we want to achieve with the existing legislation.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-622	Madam President, I would like Animal welfare, as we have noted so far in this debate, is about preventing damage to animals and having preventive work on animal health. It is in many ways a matter of doing the right thing from the start, rather than forcing expensive reconstructions. This can happen now, with the abolition of the trial, which we have lifted. You can build in the wrong way, and then there will be expensive rebuilds. We have heard from previous debaters, such as the Moderates, that developers and peasants will want it right from the start. That's for sure. But it could be wrong if you're not an expert in the field. I would like to make a comparison with New Karolinska. It's not very far from here. New Karolinska is a giant hospital that was built to care for people. It has become a disaster in many respects. It costs many times more than it would have. You can see that part after part of the hospital is not adapted for the healthcare it would be adapted for. After all, large parts of Stockholm County Council and experts have been involved to make sure that everything would work, yet New Karolinska became in many cases a disaster. It was to take care of people. When you build animal stalls, which are intended for animals, I can imagine that there will be a little fewer people involved, especially if the County Administrative Board is not to be involved in any way anymore. But what does the Center Party think about that? Both I and many other debaters who want to retain the test feel that there are many farmers who think that this is good, even if they want it to go faster. The rules themselves are good, most people think, but it takes too long. Why can't we make it faster and more efficient but still keep the trial, when it really is something positive for Sweden?
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-627	Madam President, I would like Magnus Manhammar mixes and gives. He compares Karolinska with stables for horses, cows or pigs. But it's not at all the same kind of high technology as it is when it comes to Karolinska, so that comparison is a bit strange to me. What we are talking about is abolishing the testing of animal housing. After all, there is no farmer who would build a stable without reviewing the measurements that you need to have. I do not understand why an entire profession is being discredited in this way by saying that farmers would probably not understand that they would have to build in a certain way. It goes without saying that every farmer reviews the way in which it needs to be built in order to comply with animal welfare rules of various kinds. It goes without saying that we want the least possible use of antibiotics in our animal houses, for many different reasons, but not least for the welfare of animals. It is rather strange to paint a picture of the fact that a mandatory pre-test of animal housing would be the cornerstone of Swedish animal welfare, if I were to express myself cautiously. On this issue, I think that respect should be given to those who say that the burden of regulation is far too great. If you can't change a rule without going out and screaming that it's dangerous for one reason or another, we will never be able to change any rules for Swedish agriculture. Stand up because there is a need for a regulatory simplification commission and a real simplification of the rules! Then one must dare to remove different parts of the mandatory trials in order to achieve a better result. We need to build on what I thought the government raised, namely more trust-based governance, also on these issues.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-632	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Heie, for your answer! My comparison with Nya Karolinska was about the fact that a hospital had been built for people, and it was very wrong. Obviously, building an animal house can also be very wrong. It may be necessary to actually control things before building. If we now think that rules are generally bad, how can we argue on the part of the Center Party? Should we remove even more animal welfare rules? Is everything supposed to be trust-based? Animal welfare may not even be interesting anymore, but it should be trust-based? I agree and believe, from the farmers I know, that all farmers in Sweden want their animals well. Absolutely, I think we can agree on that. That's what people want. But it's still the case that a lot of animals get hurt. If we didn't have any rules, more animals would be in trouble. After all, the trial is a successful model in Sweden that experts, veterinarians and others see no reason to abolish, but it seems to be something that the Center Party, Christian Democrats, Sweden Democrats, the Moderates and Liberals have invented. The trial is also free of charge. We heard here that it had cost a lot of money for someone to build a horse stable. But the trial is free. It can delay construction, so that you have to wait a month or two, but it is free. It is therefore a service for farmers.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-637	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Manhammar, for the opportunity to correct, if anyone understood that I confused the various building permits in my speech. I mentioned building permits for animal stalls and compared what applies to a machine hall and a riding house, but it was not about trial, but it was another building permit management I meant there. But thank you for giving me the opportunity to correct it! Magnus Manhammar mentions Karolinska and says that it was obviously very wrong. But then there was a lot that became very right too. It's a high-tech hospital that carries out amazing care every day. But it belongs to another debate, and it is perhaps another committee that should take care of those parts. I think that there too the debate should be decent and look at the benefits that it has brought to the construction of this type of hospital. In the January agreement, parts have been included that in different ways want to simplify for keepers of animals. I mentioned the horse business as some people you want to look at. In this respect, I assume that the government parties, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, will continue to bring in simplifications for keepers of animals. I find it very difficult to see that the compulsory testing of animal stalls would be the only salutary or basic bolt in terms of antibiotic use. I would like to turn to that approach. I am certainly not saying that animal welfare rules should be removed when I talk about trust, but I mentioned the various sectoral programmes in my speech. The poultry industry, for example, has been at the forefront of these issues in our country. There are opportunities to create even greater knowledge together with the professions around agriculture. The veterinarians mentioned by Magnus Manhammar are also important to include in this work.
i-SdhgLf91YfnXgVwwWny17N	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 19. We have a new animal welfare legislation, and that is a good thing. We welcome many of the new points included in it, but at the same time we believe that several measures should be taken to strengthen the new animal welfare legislation as well. A few weeks ago, I and the Minister for Rural Affairs debated in this House on improving animal welfare control. The recent wording in the media on chickens exposed to unnecessary suffering during slaughter prompted this debate. We do not need to go into more detail about the 1,800 chickens that are injured daily – that is, over half a million chickens a year – and that only in one of Sweden's abattoirs. The extent of the problem of injured chickens in Sweden is unknown. In Sweden, as many here have already said, we pride ourselves on being a pioneer country in terms of ambitious animal welfare legislation. However, if the control of animal welfare legislation does not work and compliance is not guaranteed, strict legislation does not mean much for the actual welfare of animals. During 2017, approximately 13 000 notifications of deficiencies in animal husbandry were received by the county administrative boards. Only about 30 per cent of these were checked on site by the County Administrative Board, according to information from the Swedish Board of Agriculture. It is clear that the county boards are not able to carry out their control tasks. That is not to say that the controls that are being carried out are poorly carried out. The measures to remedy this may be several – either increased funding for the county boards so that they are able to carry out the checks they are going to carry out or that there are other ways of carrying out the checks to relieve the county boards. The Left does not believe in an increase in the number of self-checks, which are currently used to reduce the cost of controls for slaughterhouses. As far as possible, checks should be carried out by independent parties. The question then is which party is most suitable to also get a holistic perspective for Sweden. We already know that the large-scale chicken meat industry is associated with a wide range of risks to the welfare of chickens. The rapid growth makes it difficult for chickens' legs to hold up their own body weight. Chickens suffer from crowding in the stables, and the mechanical collection of chickens for transport to slaughter is a factor that increases the risk of their wings being broken. It is not uncommon for chickens to be clamped with wings and toes in the small cramped cages when loading for transport. In this way, the transportation of chicken to the slaughterhouse is both stressful and painful, which is not compatible with the Animal Welfare Act. The Left Party has on several occasions proposed changes to legislation to reduce animal suffering. It is about greater opportunity for outdoor stay and the possibility of natural behaviour. Increased supervision and reduced meat consumption are other parameters that are important. There would also have to be a change of approach in the production of chicken meat. It is about using breeds that grow more slowly, reducing transport time for live chicks and moving to meat instead of chickens. It is also clear that clearer directives are needed for county administrative boards to prioritise the control and follow-up of measures where deficiencies in animal husbandry have been identified. Madam President, I would like The report states that the testing of animal housing should be removed. It is a proposal that comes from the bourgeois side in an attempt to create regulatory relief for animal owners. The ambition may be good, but the result risks being the opposite. The trial has been in place since 1973 and means that the county administrative boards will review drawings of animal housing from the point of view of animal welfare before a new building, extension or reconstruction is carried out. The aim is to prevent animal welfare problems by building right from the start and to protect farmers from wrong investments. If the trial is removed, there is a great risk that we will get newly built stables that do not live up to Swedish animal welfare rules. We believe that the trial can be developed. But it should not be phased out. I heard what Betty Malmberg said in her speech: that an animal owner in the right mind would not build a wrong stable because it would damage the animals and damage the business. I think she's basically right. Nor do I think that a majority of the country's animal owners will now think: Jippi, now I can build just as I want. They will not sit and rub their hands in joy at building cramped and bad animal stalls. But unlike the Moderates, the Left Party still believes that the trial is an important part of preventing us from building errors and that it is easier to do right from the start than to correct afterwards. Had it never gone wrong and had we not been human, we would not have had to have control at all, either before or after. When Sweden introduced the test, Sweden was one of the few countries that chose to have just a preventive approach to animal welfare. This means that we prevent housing diseases and environmental diseases in farm animals rather than trying to deal with them afterwards. Unlike the requirement to rebuild afterwards, the trial is today free of charge and an advantage for many pet owners. Finally, we can note that, despite new animal welfare legislation, there are several points that are missing in addition to what I have already mentioned, which the Left Party wants to see incorporated into animal welfare legislation. These include a total ban on wild animals in circuses, the introduction of mandatory identification marking and the registration of cats and the possibility for more farm animals in livestock production to have access to outdoor and natural behaviour. It is also about the recurring demand for a ban on mink farming. Then I've mentioned a few things. I was pleased when Magnus Manhammar in his speech raised precisely the paragraph in animal welfare legislation that deals with the possibility for animals to behave naturally. I hope that the government goes from words to action and also listens to science, which says that the ill-health of minks cannot be addressed through legislation without a stop being the right way. I now hope that the good words of the government will give us just that and that we will soon see a proposal from the Social Democrats and the Green Party for a ban on mink farming. Sweden has an animal welfare legislation to be proud of. We do more than most, but that does not mean that we can or should sit back. We need to continue to pave the way for better animal protection in Sweden and the whole of Europe.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-654	Madam President, I would like I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 9. Swedish animal husbandry must be characterised by high animal welfare ambitions. Good management and hygiene in animal husbandry provide not only better animal welfare but also high food quality. In an international comparison, Sweden has good animal welfare legislation. This is of course good but at the same time means that livestock farmers in Sweden have higher costs than their competitors in other countries. Farmers in some other countries can sell their products at a lower price due to lower animal welfare standards. In order for Swedish farmers not to be disadvantaged, it is important that animal welfare legislation is harmonised within the EU by strengthening EU requirements. The aim must be that Swedish animal welfare rules should serve as a guide for work within the EU. It is particularly important that existing rules are also complied with. As early as 2001, routine hives of pigs' tails were banned within the EU. Nevertheless, according to the EU Food Authority Efsa, the vast majority of pigs in the EU have their tails cut off. The European Commission has pointed out that the tail hive directive is not being complied with. Sweden is the only country where pigs can still knock their tails. Madam President, I would like We have excellent farmers in our country. When antibiotic use increases virtually throughout the EU and around the world, use in Sweden decreases. Sometimes it sounds like it is thanks to us politicians in this House that it is, but that is not the case. Of course, it is our Swedish farmers that we should thank. Thanks to them, Sweden is best in the EU at using the least antibiotics in animal husbandry. This question is a matter of destiny for our world and all mankind. Antibiotic-resistant bacteria pose a major threat to human health. More and more bacteria are developing resistance to an increasing number of medicines. At the same time, very little new antibiotics have been developed in recent decades. The consequence is that in the future we risk seeing again tens of millions of people dying of infectious diseases which can now be easily cured by antibiotics. Many surgical procedures are also made impossible in practice due to the risk of infection. Already today, at least 700 000 people are estimated to die each year because of resistant bacteria. Yes, you heard me correctly: 700,000 people. The reason for increasing antibiotic resistance is the widespread over-use of antibiotics. Two thirds of all antibiotics worldwide are given to animals. In Sweden, animal husbandry accounts for about one seventh of antibiotic use. In our country, therefore, animals receive considerably less antibiotics than in other countries – this is thanks to active animal protection work that reduces the risk of diseases and strict national rules for antibiotic use. Unfortunately, we are not self-sufficient in food. The meat we import comes from animals that are reared in countries where there is significantly higher antibiotic use than is legal in Sweden. For example, about 40% of all pigmeat consumed in Sweden is imported. The average use of antibiotics per animal in the EU is about 14 times higher than in Sweden. But there are horror examples of countries that use 30 and up to 40 times more antibiotics per animal unit than Sweden. Madam President, I would like Various governments and individual MEPs have been pushing for a long time to reduce the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry in the EU. However, the concrete result in terms of the amount of antibiotics used per animal unit is not satisfactory. Although steps have been taken in the right direction, use is still far too high in Europe. Since 2006, EU rules prohibit the use of antibiotics for growth-promoting purposes. But it's going too slow. More needs to be done. One example that the Christian Democrats are pushing is the introduction at European level of a rule that veterinarians must not make money prescribing antibiotics. In fact, that is the case today in Germany, for example. At global level, the situation is even worse. Between 2010 and 2030, the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry is expected to increase by 67%. The biggest increase is expected in China, but also in countries such as the USA, Brazil, India and Mexico the use is expected to increase. It is clear that new approaches and new political energy are needed in order to avoid human beings ending up in a situation where we can no longer use antibiotics to treat diseases. Much is being done in terms of information, awareness raising, prevention of infections and more. However, the overall picture is that powerful policy instruments are needed to break the alarming global over-use of antibiotics in livestock farming. The Food Organisation of the United Nations FAO has called for political initiatives at the highest level to overcome the widespread distribution of antibiotics to animals. Here Swedish farmers show solutions to a very big problem. Madam President, I would like I am sure no one has missed the fact that we have adopted a food strategy in this House. In the strategy, we are talking about developing agriculture rather than phasing out. One of the main areas of the food strategy is rules and conditions. The risk is obvious that many farmers tire of their production because of all the regulatory and paperwork. Many farmers with whom I have spoken wonder: When should we see or at least perceive the results of the food strategy? Yeah, that's what I'm asking. It has now been almost two years without any visible results. It is therefore a great pleasure that we have a majority in favour of the proposal that no re-examination should take place in the case of new, re- or extension. Today, the rules governing the construction of animal stalls are too detailed. Instead, increased focus should be on function and animal welfare. It is a start entirely in line with the food strategy, on which we agreed. It is incredibly important that we see more workshop, not less, and I hope that the government will come up with this in the future. Profitability must increase and competitiveness must be strengthened. I would like to conclude by saying how important it is that we are proud and grateful for the work that our Swedish farmers are doing around our country.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-670	Madam President, I would like I wanted to give the Christian Democrats the chance to emphasise and describe once again their position on the abolition of the testing of animal stalls. After all, it is this issue that has become what the debate is about, because we will have a vote on it in a moment. We heard the representatives of the Christian Democrats say that it is important that the rules in the future are more about function and that it should be more targeted. Instead of rules and clear requirements, we shall have a function. We'll say that the animals should feel good and that we should work for animal welfare but not really how. Instead, let's talk about goals. I'm thinking about what would happen if we did that in other parts of society and if we were to start talking like that when it comes to other laws, for example for traffic. As I mentioned earlier in the debate, Frida Lundmark from SLU, who is a doctor in animal science, compares the argument from among others Christian Democrats with looking at function. I'll read it before, because I think she's written very well. She describes it this way: Comparing the testing of animal stalls more targeted with traffic rules could mean that we remove, for example, preventive rules such as guarding. We could remove speed limits, the right-hand rule, stop-like, one-way and car inspection and replace it with rules describing the goals to be achieved, such as driving your vehicle so that you do not risk causing an accident for yourself or others. You can just drive anyway. It is perhaps some kind of extremely liberal view that has suddenly passed over the Christian Democrats so that they have left their conservative side and become hugely neo-liberal. Maybe that's what happened? It obviously seems so. How do they think in this case, and would they have thought so if it had been about people? Here are the goals and functions – we can hope that it will be good, but we don't need to have any rules. ..................................................... I want answers from the Christian Democrats. I think that our farmers and also the animals deserve an answer.
i-QPe9gAYtGXULhoP5um64Eo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Manhammar, for the question. It was great that I had the chance to talk a little about this. We have listened to the peasants around our country when they have appealed to us politicians. They say: Do what you can to reduce bureaucracy! Do what you can to reduce the regulatory burden! If Mr Manhammar has read on the food strategy, he knows that we there talk a lot about what I tried to say in my opening speech, namely reducing the regulatory burden and finding things to make it a little easier for our farmers to be farmers. That is really our main objective: we want to be what we have said and to do it a little better. It will not be the case that every farmer says: Amazing! But there can be a small trace, a small ounce so that they at least sense that it is going on. What is interesting is that this does not come from the government, which was so eager to highlight the food strategy as important. And we supported it and were in on it, because we felt that this was important: the signal to our farmers that we are doing something. That is why this is at least a start to do something to improve for our Swedish farmers.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-679	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Based on what I have been able to read and what is described not least by experts and people at SLU, who really know these questions, I perceive that they believe that this has been more for the benefit of farmers. It has been an opportunity to anticipate the costs of building and the rules that apply today. It is, after all, thankfully, that animal welfare and animal welfare are getting better and better, at least in our country. There will be new rules all the time, and then it may be an advantage to have an automatic contact with the authorities when it is to be built. This is what is called the testing of animal stalls. From what I understand – there are farmers who testify to this – there are farmers who are in favour of this in general. Even the LRF has expressed a positive view of this, at least in the past. Maybe they've changed their feet. Sometimes they do. This is something that has been good for Swedish animal nutrition. That's why I'm a little bit questioning and worried, because if so, what is the next step?
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-683	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for allowing me to give another answer! I do not think that the honourable Member needs to be concerned at all, because, as someone here was on before, there is the Animal Welfare Act. It's nothing bad. What is experienced is bureaucracy and paperwork. You used to talk about that it doesn't cost any money. No, it may not cost money that way, but it costs time. You might have to bring in a consultant, and it costs money. It is not true that it costs nothing. Someone came to the conclusion that the law has existed since 1973. It is great that we now actually get to remove a team that you have shown may not work properly. We can look at how many rules and how much bureaucracy a Swedish farmer has today. There are about 900 rules that he has to relate to — 900! This is particularly true if the farmer has milk production and perhaps cereal cultivation. Where there is no place, we must ensure that it is reduced. It is important to do something to make the farmers feel that we not only talk but also listen. We think it is a good thing to do this. It is important now that we get more profitability for Swedish agriculture and that we strengthen competitiveness. It's part of this. I really hope so. It is clear that not everything will turn around, but it is at least a step, a little sensation to our farmers out there that someone is listening. It is a pleasure that we have obtained the majority for this proposal. I'm very happy about that.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-689	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment on animal welfare. I shall begin this speech by talking for a moment about trials. This is what the committee's report says:"The committee believes that the mandatory requirement for the testing of animal housing should be abolished and the rules for the construction of animal housing should be simplified. We in the Green Party want the trial to remain, and we are not the only ones who want it. Researchers in the field have reacted strongly to the proposal. Here's what some say: If politicians really think they want to focus on animal welfare, the proposal to remove the trial is incomprehensible. Efforts to make legislation less preventive are rather backward. There are reasons for removing a lot of hassles that burden Swedish agriculture. That is where we absolutely agree. However, few regulations have been as helpful as the trial. The very essence of our animal welfare legislation is to prevent suffering, something that is very strongly emphasised in the bill on the new Animal Welfare Act. Before we had preventive legislation, action could only be taken when animals are already in trouble – in the case of animal cruelty. The trial is about preventing risks and about doing right from the start. It was introduced, as I said, in the 1970s, and since then, the consumption of antibiotics among farm animals has gradually decreased in Sweden compared to other European countries. The ban on antibiotics in feedingstuffs introduced in 1985, which was then unique to Sweden, would probably never have been introduced without the testing. A few years ago, the committee at the time expressed its view: the committee shares the government's view that the trial should continue to be compulsory. This is important from the point of view of animal welfare, but it can also provide a kind of guarantee for companies in the face of a major investment that the construction of animal shelters can entail. The committee welcomes the fact that rules should be effective and effective, and therefore welcomes a review to review the possibilities for simplifying and improving the pre-trial trial process. What has happened since then that makes so many political parties think that this should no longer apply? What kind of research is one leaning against? Is there an impact assessment of the proposal? I read, as I said, an article this week by a large number of scientists who pulled the lance for the trial. I am therefore amazed when a majority in the committee today says: The committee believes that there is a need to abolish the mandatory requirement to test animal housing. The committee understands that there may be concerns that the abolition of the requirement for the testing of animal housing could contribute to the deterioration of animal health and animal welfare. The committee would, however, like to point out that those who choose to keep animals, and to make the major investments needed to build suitable animal shelters, do so with the best interests of the animals in mind. ..................................................... I'm sure anyone who chooses to keep animals does it with the best interests of the animals in their eyes. In fact, I do not know what to say about the majority in the committee choosing to describe it as a reason for the removal of the trial in the way that is done here. Do we want to say with this description that those of us who believe that the trial should remain automatically believe that those who keep animals and build for animals are vile people who do not have the best interests of the animals in mind? Or what are they saying? I am absolutely convinced that man is basically good and wants well and that the people who built for animals in the 1970s also wanted the welfare of animals. I am also convinced that not all people know everything there is to know and that we sometimes think wrong. Among other things, we form laws in parliament and government. It makes it easier to do the right thing and choose the way. The trial is free of charge for farmers. The intention is to ensure that animal welfare legislation has already been taken into account at the planning stage when planning your barn, henhouse or stable. Those who do the reviews are neutral and experienced building consultants. The truth is that the trial benefits Swedish farmers and their animals. Thanks to the trial, many improvements, large and small, have been made in the stables before they were built. I request the approval of S, V and M's reservation 19 on the testing of animal housing. Madam President, I would like I must also comment on a committee motion by Magnus Oscarsson and several Christian Democrats calling for a change in the grazing requirement for dairy cows in loose operation. Motionists argue that abolishing national grazing requirements would mean that Swedish farmers, like their European colleagues, could receive grazing aid from the EU. That is an interesting starting point. Instead of working to change EU rules, so that even those countries with stronger animal welfare legislation can receive support, which we in the Green Party prefer to work, they want to reduce the requirements in Sweden and thus the conditions for a better animal welfare. At the same time, research clearly shows that cows are feeling better and happier, and because of this, they stay healthier when they get out. Among other things, cloven-and-leg status is improved. Research also shows that significantly fewer cows die by themselves or are slaughtered in emergency situations. A study in Denmark shows that it is about half the number of cows that meet this fate if you take advantage of the outdoors during the grazing season. When you question the testing, grazing requirements and the requirement for sleeping halls, you meet criticism from certain groups without considering what good and preventive animal welfare should look like and how good animal welfare should be created – without impact assessment. There is a fundamental provision on animal welfare in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union which states that Member States should take full account of the welfare of animals as sentient beings when designing and implementing Union policies, including agriculture, fisheries and the internal market. Ethology is the research on animal behavior. It is a relatively new area of research. Until just a few decades ago, we didn't even think the animals could communicate, just because they couldn't speak human language and we didn't understand their language. When it comes to emotions, animals can't feel, can they? Today, research through inventive scientists has managed to lead in evidence most of what many of us who have lived with and near the animals have long claimed. However, the fact that research has not managed to lead it in evidence until now has nothing to do with the animals – that the animals did not feel sooner or could not communicate then – has to do with us humans not having managed to figure out a way to find out that how they feel, why they do what they do and how they communicate. That's very important for us to remember. It is usually about ourselves and our shortcomings in research. The animal welfare rules that exist are justified by the need for them, either through proven research findings or through practical experience. There is also a lot of research and knowledge about how animals feel and feel that we do not handle in laws and regulations. So even though we may be among the best in the world on animal welfare, that doesn't mean we're good enough.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-711	Madam President, I would like Seems like we're all here burning animal friends. I am pleased, because animals are to be cared for and treated well; that goes without saying. How we handle our animals, I think, is also a measure of the degree of civilization that we have achieved. It is also a prerequisite for good public health and for a viable agricultural industry. We have many different issues that go together during the animal welfare debate. Sweden has the best animal welfare in the EU. We have a low use of antibiotics, we take great care of the environment and we have good disease protection. It is not only good for animals and for us, but it is also an important competitive advantage that needs to be protected and constantly improved. That is why animal welfare legislation must be sharp and clear, and those who break the law must be detected and prosecuted. The regular performance of animal welfare controls by competent personnel is essential for trust between keepers, authorities and the public. There is a development potential here, both in the response between authorities and farmers and in the level of knowledge of inspectors, so that we get the equivalent compliance and control across the country that is actually needed. The fact that the Council for Animal Welfare Control is now working towards a more legally secure process and is committed to making it easier for owners to do the right thing with preventive work to complement animal welfare controls in particular is a good example of improvements that can and should be made. However, in order to continue leading in this area, Sweden should invest in more research on animal welfare and alternatives to animal testing in order to find better solutions and methods that guarantee the welfare of animals. The aim must, of course, always be to ensure that animals have a good life and that non-animal experiments should be used as far as possible without compromising the results of experiments should be self-evident. Eventually, we may be able to move completely away from methods where animals are used in experiments. For example, it is not reasonable for animals to be used to test cosmetics. This is something that is still happening outside the EU. While the EU, after a long and hard work by enthusiasts who drove it, introduced a ban on the sale of animal-tested cosmetics and hygiene products in 2013, it is still in principle the practice of using animal testing for all cosmetics and hygiene products in, for example, China. Sweden and the EU need to take the lead and push for a global ban on animal testing for cosmetics. Animal welfare is largely regulated by common EU directives and regulations, with different successes. We have all, with anger and horror, followed the reporting of animals suffering and being transported across Europe in terrible conditions. For us Liberals, it has long been a priority that animal transport within the EU should be restricted as much as possible. That is why we say that it is better to transport meat than live animals. We also want to increase the possibilities for mobile and smaller slaughterhouses to remedy this circus. It is also written about a different kind of circus and animal husbandry in this report, and we can all say that, thankfully, awareness and knowledge of animal emotions, rights and well-being lie light years away from what it looked like during my childhood circus visit where wild animals were shown in small and cramped cages. We should not forget, however, or turn a blind eye to the fact that in a large part of our world there are still such disgusting displays of animals kept in captivity under very primitive conditions. Undeniably, there is much to be done both within and – perhaps above all – outside the EU. Much has been done to make the EU a good thing for animals too, and we can in fact largely thank our Swedish liberal MEPs for that. This applies, for example, to Marit Paulsen, who previously represented my party, and to Mr Federley, who has done an excellent job during this parliamentary term. And if we are now to enter the European election campaign, I must, of course, strike a blow for our leading candidate, Karin Karlsbro, who is also the President of the Green Liberals and drives issues of this nature very eagerly. I hope that she, Fredrik and several others will continue this work after the elections. There is therefore no lack of laws and rules at European level, but they must of course be complied with. If they are not complied with, sanctions must be imposed, and the Member States are seriously failing to do so. This is something that has also been brought to the attention of the European Parliament, which is now calling for action in this area. The EU also had an action plan on animal welfare from 2012 to 2015, and I have searched with light and lanterns for a successor to it but still found none. There's more to do. Sometimes, however, it is not legislation that is needed. A good example is the Commission's Animal Welfare Platform, which will enable the exchange of experience and best practices between keepers in the EU and thus also stimulate voluntary commitments to strengthen animal welfare and promote EU animal welfare standards globally. We like that! Not everything can be legislated away, but much also happens through exchanges of experience and good contacts between farmers. Madam President, I would like If you want to sleepless one night, you should start thinking about antibiotic resistance and what happens on the day when we can no longer cure a relatively simple infection because, through excessive use of antibiotics, we have made the bacterium resistant. Sweden has a national strategy for the work against antibiotic resistance, and money is allocated in a ten-year research programme. M en World Economic Forum has identified antibiotic resistance as a global risk that no single organization or nation has the capacity to deal with alone. A broader allocation is therefore needed here. The use of antibiotics among both humans and animals must be reduced, and preventive and research-related work must be increased if we are to survive in the long term. This is where animal welfare comes in, because good animal welfare leads to less antibiotics being used. Sweden is the best in Europe to keep down the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry – partly thanks to our high animal welfare standards, which make fewer animals stressed and ill. Better animal welfare in the rest of Europe and the world is therefore not only important, but actually vital, for both animals and humans. As this became a debate on an announcement, Madam President, I would like to say at last that I am not ashamed of this report. I support the committee's proposal as it has been drafted. I suspect that I, too, will be laid down for shaving with regard to the abolition of the pre-examination procedure. That is why, like the previous speaker, I would like to say the following: building rules are still in place. Animal welfare laws are still in force. Inspection and inspection will still take place before animals are allowed into the building. Continuous control will take place. So the rule of law exists. The fact that a rule has existed since 1970 does not mean that it must always exist? Only in the months that I have been on this committee have I received an insight that frightens me, namely that there seems to be a distrust of people who keep animals. It's their work material and what they live for. They don't put their animals in danger! Why cannot we trust the system that contains building rules, audits, requirements and controls? Why do we have to impose a further charge on this group, and just on it? It's not about anyone else. By the way, I think we Googled the licence as something where there is also a prior examination.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-724	Madam President, I would like The Animal Protection Investigator and Liberal Eva Eriksson, who was also Vice-Chairman of the Liberals and member of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, felt it was important to prevent animal welfare problems by proposing to maintain the testing of animal housing renovations. She was the one who investigated this anyway, and I guess she's pretty familiar with the issue – or, I know she is. The bill on a new animal welfare law also included a requirement for this, and it was supported by the decision that we here in Parliament took together. My questions to the Liberals and Tina Acketoft are therefore simple: What has happened? Was Eva Eriksson wrong? Why have the Liberals changed their mind when it comes to the testing of animal stalls?
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-726	Madam President, I would like No, we have, of course, come to that position by weighing together all the different discussions we have had in this Chamber before. Construction rules are still in place. Animal welfare laws are still in force. Audits, inspections and controls will continue to be carried out. So the rule of law exists. What makes Mr Manhammar think that this further review of all these regulations must take place? I understand that he makes himself a spokesman for the welfare of the peasants when he says that this is done so that the peasants will not get additional costs. This is very important, but as I have said, the building regulations and controls are still in place. The only thing we are now saying that we should be able to remove is the pre-trial examination. Why is that so unreasonable?
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-728	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mrs Acketoft. So now I got a question, which I find exciting. I will certainly answer why it is so important. Nevertheless, I think that in this debate we have come to the conclusion, as several other speakers have clearly described, that animal welfare is about prevention. Testing is precisely to prevent. I'm not the one who thinks this. I could sit and think about this all the time, and I could think wrong. I am not an expert on this. If we check with the experts at SLU, with veterinarians and with those who have worked with this for decades, they say that this is an incredibly important part of Swedish animal welfare. It is one of the parts that has made Swedish animal welfare so successful. Then why should we scrap it? We should not phase out the trial, but rather develop it.
i-b9b042ad2dfa4716-730	Madam President, I would like I find it symptomatic that Mr Manhammar is talking about me as a liberal. Perhaps this is where the difference lies: Liberals do not think that everything needs to be regulated and governed by law, but we believe in the free individual. We already have control mechanisms in place here. We have building rules, and we have animal welfare laws that are still in force. We have inspections and inspections that are still to be carried out, and we have checks to be carried out. Why is it this particular group of traders who always have to be tested for additional legislation? We have good animal welfare. This will not change it; I am absolutely convinced of that.
