i-d6c2319fa02e1900-0	I submitted on Wednesday 16 January the proposal that Stefan Löfven, the Social Democrats, be appointed Prime Minister. Stefan Löfven has stated that he intends to form a government made up of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The proposal has now been tabled twice and will be examined at today's sitting.
i-d6c2319fa02e1900-2	Mr President, I would like to It has now been four months since the elections. It's a long time without government. The result of the elections means that none of the traditional blocs has a majority of their own in the Riksdag. It has required us to find new collaborations so that Sweden can be ruled. For many parties it has been a difficult process. But now there is the January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party on budget cooperation and cooperation on a number of political issues in the Riksdag. This means that we have an opportunity to vote for a stable and capable government. It is a government that can take responsibility for Sweden and move Sweden forward. At a time when far-right forces are growing in strength, Sweden chooses a different path from many countries in our surrounding world. Our four parties have different ideological starting points, but we are united in our defence of fundamental democratic values: equality, equality, openness and tolerance. Now we have also agreed on a reform agenda, the January agreement, which creates the conditions to meet the challenges facing Sweden. We will strengthen the resources for welfare, health care, school and care. Pensions will be increased and the unfair pensioner's tax will be abolished. We will take a first step towards introducing a family week of three days off for each year so that all parents will have more time with their children. We will speed up the climate transition in order for Sweden to meet the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We will develop rural areas, expand knowledge and strengthen defence and police. In addition, we Social Democrats will work to maintain important red-green reforms that were decided during the last parliamentary term. There are, of course, proposals in the agreement that we Social Democrats would not have implemented ourselves if we had the power to decide for ourselves. However, the agreement also contains social democratic policies which now have a broad cross-border base and which can thus be implemented during their term of office. It is time for our country to have a powerful government. That is why the Socialist parliamentary group today will vote in favour of Stefan Löfven as Sweden's Prime Minister.
i-d6c2319fa02e1900-8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. For the 2018 parliamentary elections, we in the Left Party said that we want to see a government without bourgeois parties and that we therefore prefer Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. We then represent the election of more than half a million voters who do not want Sweden to be ruled by a blue-brown government that gives influence to a racist party. In line with that, the Left Party today will abstain in the Prime Minister's vote, Stefan Löfven can continue as Prime Minister. But we do it with a motion of censure. If the new government has the bad judgment to present the announced proposals on market rents or reduced job security, we will act to convict the government. The Left Party is a wavemaster in the Chamber, and we intend to use that position. With Stefan Löfven now becoming Prime Minister, we ensure that Sweden does not get a right-wing government that had become directly dependent on the Swedish Democrats. That is by far the most likely result of the Prime Minister's vote scheduled for next week if the Löfven were to fall today. If the alternative had been a new choice, we'd be ready for it. But that is not the situation. Such a blue-brown rule would have meant a brutal combination of the ice-cold class politics of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats and racism. Now Sweden does not have to be ruled by such a reactionary government. Today's loser is easy to appoint. Their names are Ulf Kristersson, Ebba Busch Thor and Jimmie Åkesson. Today we can also formally bury the bourgeois alliance project. Over the last few days, we have pulverized the attempts that had been made to completely exclude the Left Party from influence. The Center Party and the Liberals tried, and they have failed. We have also agreed with Stefan Löfven that he will stand up for the reforms that the Left Party pushed through in cooperation with the government during the last parliamentary term. This applies both to those who remain today and those who disappeared in the budget from M and KD. The left impression of equality will remain. The new government is a government with many right-wing proposals. It is a policy of inequality that Sweden should have left behind. But unlike a moderate government, it will be a government that can be influenced from the left. That gives us in the Left Party an important role. It will be we who formulate the policy for an equal Sweden, for feminism and for radical climate policy. But we won't do it alone. We will do it together with all the movements and all the people around our country who believe in a fair and equal Sweden, a Sweden for all and not just for the richest. Together, we are going to change the debate on society and put pressure to push politics in a better direction. This government comes into being through an agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party. It is a negotiation that the Left Party has not participated in and a settlement that we are in no way, not at any point, bound by. On the contrary, we come here in this House and wherever we appear to be fighting a policy that increases inequality and weakens the position of employees. When we can deal with the government about taking steps to the left or for a radical climate policy, we will do so. But its proposals will only get our support if they go in the right direction, and many times it will need our mandates to get the policy through. Mr President, I would like to Many European countries have given up before racist and fascist parties. Bourgeois parties have invited them to cooperate in the naive belief that they can be controlled. Here in Sweden too, parts of the right made an attempt to start the journey today, but they have failed. In Sweden 2019, right-wing parties are called middle parties. Other parts of the right are blurring the borderline against racists. The Social Democrats form government. But they don't do it with social emic politics. It is a time of enormous class divisions and acute threats to our climate. It is a time of seriousness – a time when the Left will grow as the real alternative. We will formulate the policy for an equal Sweden, and we look forward with confidence to the next election, whether it will be 2022 or before then. Now begins a time when the role of the Left Party is growing in Swedish politics. We're ready.
i-d6c2319fa02e1900-22	Mr President, I would like to 131 days ago, the Swedish people elected their representatives in the Riksdag. The result of the elections was not simple, but has led to a autumn of complicated discussions, positions that have had to be reconsidered and fundamental democratic values that have been at stake. The Green Party has worked constructively throughout this time to find a solution that prioritises the climate, gender equality and humanity and keeps racism out. We have worked to build bridges and hold talks. We have wanted to see a political solution in which the values of democracy are defended, and we have seen that, based on the outcome of the elections, this solution can be found in the political centre. In December, the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats were voted through with the support of the Swedish Democrats. It involves a catastrophic slaughter of the environmental budget – larger than Donald Trumps's internationally strongly criticised proposal for reductions on the US equivalent to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. After several months of important and difficult discussions, the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals have agreed on an agreement that leads Sweden on a much better track. Our parties are united not by an ideological consensus on all issues but by the will to stand up for the values of liberal democracy and not to give a xenophobic party influence over every important political decision. We have agreed on a strong climate policy with high-speed trains, night trains to Europe and a ban on the sale of fossil cars in 2030. We agree on a historically large green tax shift of 15 billion. We will ban bottom trawling in protected areas. We are also taking important steps towards a more solidarity-based and compassionate society. War refugees will be reunited with their families. Children will finally meet their parents after years of anxiety. We say no to arms exports to the non-democrats involved in the terrible war in Yemen. We implement initiatives against mental illness and for development time to strengthen competence development. We're strengthening the LSS. We protect open labour migration, and we save the Equality Agency. Not all the reforms in the agreement are those of the Green Party. Different parties have contributed and prioritised different parts. We have agreed precisely to contribute to better development for Sweden. It will be a stable governance in which the destiny of our time, the climate, is highlighted and where an open society is defended. The alternative would be night black. In country after country we can see right-wing xenophobic parties given political influence. It changes society as a whole, and it changes democracy. We do not go that way in Sweden; we choose another way. An important task for us in the future is to work towards a policy that also provides a fairer society – a society that stays together and is not torn apart by homelessness or poverty among single parents. A just society is also a prerequisite for halting climate change. We support Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister in today's vote. We want to form a government with the Social Democrats. We vote in favour of the climate, we vote in favour of humanity and we vote in favour of transparency, democracy and faith in the future.
i-d6c2319fa02e1900-31	Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to understand the discussion about the formation of government in Sweden if one does not also see the overall ideological debate and the windy edge in Europe right now. Throughout the Western world, a wave of right-wing nationalism and right-wing populism is sweeping. Donald Trump, Marine Le Pen, Orbán in Hungary and several other countries are examples of this as well as Brexit and the desire to destroy European cooperation. Each country should take care of itself, close its eyes to the outside world and not care so much about others. The European elections later this spring will be the next big show of strength. Liberal ideas have built mankind's most successful societies, in which we, here and now in the Western world, happen to have the privilege of living. They are characterised by individual freedom, democracy, tolerance, openness to the outside world, international cooperation, European cooperation, equality and diversity. Right-wing nationalism has portrayed liberalism as its main opponent. Right-wing nationalism has also been tried in the history of Europe, and every time, by extension, has led to Europe's worst tragedies. The Swedish Democrats are part of this right-wing nationalist wave. Mr President, I would like to The government that will now take office is not the wishful government of the Liberals. We campaigned for a bourgeois electoral victory and for a bourgeois government, but the Alliance lost the election. In the last month, there have been two options on the table for the Liberals and the Center Party: a moderate-led government that rests on the Swedish Democrats and a Social Democratic-led government that rests on the Liberals and Centers. If it were just a matter of choosing between the Moderates and the Social Democrats, we would have chosen the Moderates. Then we would have voted for Ulf Kristersson today. But this election is about something m you. The problem is that an M-government would not just have to be voted by the SD today – we could have lived with that, and that is not the problem. Who is voting for someone and who is voting is not the problem. The problem is that in order to get its policy through, an M-led government every week in this House would be dependent on SD's green votes, and such support would not come for free. One would sooner or later be forced to cooperate; otherwise there would be repeated government crises and new electoral threats. Through their wave mastership every week, the Swedish Democrats could completely dominate political decision-making and political debate. This was the background to the principle formulated by Sweden's most successful bourgeois Prime Minister, Fredrik Reinfeldt. He put it this way: If the Alliance is smaller than the Red-Greens, we must have cross-block cooperation. He realized that if the Alliance tried to rule otherwise you would end up in the hands of the Swedish Democrats. He rejected this solution, and I share Fredrik Reinfeldt's view. The Mid-Constellation, which now has an agreement, comprises 167 mandates in this House. No other grouping is greater. It is true that if all the other parties agree to bring down the government, they can do so. If the Left Party settles with the SD and the Moderates to convict the government in order for us to introduce liberal reforms, they can do so. It's true. Otherwise, in the day-to-day work, there is no majority that can bring the policy to bear in this agreement. It distinguishes this government from a right-wing government, which would have 92 seats in this House and would quickly be blackmailed. Mr President, I would like to The last term of office we have had the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government. It has been a government that has rested on the blackmail of the Left Party. They have dictated politics with Reepalu investigations and whatever it has been. And they've got it through, because if you can blackmail, you get through a lot. The Left Party is now getting rid of that role. It is the Liberals and the Centers that are now building the government base. It is we who have made the demands of this agreement. The four of us who have concluded the agreement have the opportunity to settle with other parties on other issues, and we will do so. Essentially, it is an opportunity for the Liberals and Centers to settle with the Moderates and Christian Democrats on other issues that are not in the settlement. Mr Sjöstedt is right to say that although S and V can talk about other issues, there is no way of getting a majority in this House for that. This minimises the influence of both outer parties in this House, and this has been an important objective for us liberals. Mr President, I would like to Today's formation of the government could not have happened without a political agreement with a comprehensive liberal reform agenda. Many have been surprised that the reform programme looks so positive from a bourgeois point of view, and that is, of course, why they are so angry in the Left Party. It is about abolishing military tax, further marginal tax reductions, extending RUT deductions, reducing taxes on companies, liberalising labour law, facilitating jobs for newcomers, free market rents in new productions and so on. Economic policy is more bourgeois than the alliance government managed to conduct. The reform programmes for greater integration and better education contain many important proposals. Integration is in the near future the biggest challenge we have with all new arrivals who have come here. Examples of proposals are language requirements for citizenship, stopping new religious free schools that have increased segregation in our suburbs, tougher fight against honorary oppression, free access to grades in the fourth grade in school, providing evidence to nationalize the school and teacher assistants to relieve teachers. Mr President, I would like to We know and we understand that the wind is blowing towards the right-wing nationalist direction in Europe and in Sweden. I know that the Liberals and I are taking risks with today's position. We would have done that even if we had chosen the other way. Liberals, both party members and voters, are strongly suspicious of the red-green parties but are also strongly opposed to right-wing extremism. More important than short-term opinion winds, however, is to keep your eyes fixed later. The Liberal Party in Sweden was created over a hundred years ago. The aim has always been to stand up for the liberal model of society in the face and against. That is the purpose that guides us to this day.
i-d6c2319fa02e1900-44	Mr President, I would like to A little over four months ago, the Swedish people voted. On 9 September we had elections here in Sweden to, among other things, the Riksdag, this parish. The red-green government of the Social Democrats and the Green Party was then voted out. It was perhaps the clearest verdict of the election result we received on 9 September that the voters did not want the government they had been involved in for four years. Then it has followed four months of government formation. I have certainly not been involved in all the years that Sweden has been a democracy, but I have been in politics for a relatively long time at different levels. I have to say that, at least as long as I have followed politics, I have not encountered a more strange, more absurd and bizarre formation of government. The whole purpose seems to have been to confuse as much as possible so that no one really understands what is actually happening, and then we sit there with Stefan Löfven, Gustav Fridolin and Isabella Lövin for another four years. It's a bizarre development that I didn't see coming. The very reason why we have now ended up there is not primarily political or even because a majority of the Members of this House think that Stefan Löfven is the best prime minister or that the Social Democrats are the party that should lead this country. That is not at all the reason why Stefan Löfven now has another four years. The reason is that the left-wing liberal parties in this House, as they themselves have said, want to do their utmost to ensure that a couple of parties have no influence on politics at all. It is the Left Party and it is my party, the Swedish Democrats. This has been the main part of the whole process that has taken a little over four months. How does this end, Mr President? We heard Jonas Sjöstedt, the representative of one of these parties who would have absolutely no influence here just now. The wording of the agreement between the left-wing liberal parties, which would prevent the influence of the Left Party, has been written by Jonas Sjöstedt. He's pulverized it. Yet the Liberal party leader stood here just now and celebrated this settlement. This is an absurd development. I also note, Mr President, that the otherwise green centre leader today, the day in honour, is wearing red. The government that we are now likely to vote for is a government that has failed with just everything that would be done in the four years that it had. The main objective, the main electoral promise to the voters, was unsuccessful, namely to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Now we are not there by 2020 yet, but there is still a little less than a year left, but the trend has gone in the opposite direction. We have fallen in the ranking of unemployment among the EU countries. It has failed miserably. The school has been completely failed, which the spokesperson of the Green Party would fix in 100 days. Care queues have doubled. The problems of integration and exclusion have been strengthened, not only a little but also to levels of disaster. You didn't see the integration problems for what they were when you took office. It therefore continued to pursue an extreme and extremely irresponsible migration policy that further exacerbated the problems of integration and exclusion, gang crime and other irresponsibility related immigration policies. I can stand here, Mr President, and line up any number of failures from the Red-Green Government made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, but everything indicates that I have four years to continue pointing out those problems, and then I have to take every chance of doing so. I said the last time I stood in the speaker's chair that I am not really surprised at this development. For this development, that the liberal parties in the Swedish parliament pull to the left and turn to the Social Democracy, the Environmental Party and the former Communist Party, is a natural development given the issues that are topical on the political agenda today in 2019 and given the issues that are topical in ordinary, real people's everyday lives in 2019. There is no bourgeois alliance, but in that context, in the real reality today, there are two new bloc constellations in Swedish politics. It is the left-wing liberal bloc that will now take office as a new government, and it is a right-wing conservative opposition. I am aware that the other two parties which are now part of this opposition have not yet landed properly in reality and have not really been able to buy that this development is actually a fact. But it will be forced to do so during this term of office. It's a natural development. Now that we could not get a conservative government in place, my ambition is to be part of a strong conservative opposition to this left-wing liberal government that will continue to make the same mistake that has been made in the four years that have passed and which will not least increase immigration to Sweden – the issue that was by far the most controversial, the most serious and the most important for voters during most of the last parliamentary term because Stefan Löfven and the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats failed and carried out a irresponsible policy that hurt Sweden in real and deep terms. Now we are going back to that policy, as if we have understood nothing. It is also my guess, Mr President, that nothing has been understood. The Social Democrats are a distinct power party. It's power above all. I remember when Stefan Löfven and I met in a party leader debate on television a few years ago. I pointed out that only one in five foreign rapists is expelled from the country. Stefan Löfven treated it in two ways. One way was to deny it. Stefan Löfven said that the rules are such that if you are convicted of rape and are foreign citizens, you are indeed expelled. Yes, in one case in five, it is that way. The other way was that he used the argument that it is very important that we do not get any more exceptions from the rotation rules. This would lead to an increase in the number of rapes. What's Stefan Löfven doing now? Now he agrees to further exceptions to the rules of rotation. Stefan Lövven's mantra throughout the electoral movement and most of the last term was that the terrible bourgeois right-wing forces only want to destroy the welfare society and lower the taxes of the richest. What does Stefan Löfven do now when he is going to prioritise in tax policy? We're going to get rid of the valuables. Stefan Löfven lowers the taxes for the richest. Power above all. I am impressed by how Stefan Löfven manages to retain power even if he does not pursue his own policy. My ambition is for the Swedish Democrats during the years of this term to become a dominant force in a new conservative bloc or a new conservative constellation in Swedish politics. That is what I will work for, Mr President. I look forward to it very much. It will be fun to meet the left-wing extreme government in opposition, hopefully together with the other conservative right-wing forces in this House. We will vote against today if anyone thought otherwise. For the sake of clarity, it will be red button from the Swedish Democrats. It will be a strong offensive opposition role for us for four years or slightly fewer years.
i-d6c2319fa02e1900-62	Mr President, I would like to This day of responsibility Jimmie Åkesson chose to comment on women's dress. Let me point out that my suit has the same color as Jimmie Åkesson's tie.
i-d6c2319fa02e1900-63	The 2018 election was a valuation choice. The Center Party went to elections to defend humanity, equality and tolerance. We promised our constituents that we would work against xenophobia, mistrust and secrecy. We promised to push for liberal center policies for more jobs and businesses, living rural areas, better environment, closer care and more humanity. For four months, I and the Center Party have tried many different options to find a government solution based on the six parties that exist between the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats and that could hold the Alliance together. I am sorry that this has not been possible. Too many people have been too locked in their positions. As a result, we finally faced two choices. One was a small M-KD government that would require an active dependence on the Swedish Democrats in every important vote. A xenophobic populist party would then have a historic influence on Sweden's development. The second was an S-MP government that would depend on the Center Party and the Liberals and therefore be allowed to pursue policies based on a liberal reform agenda. The Center Party has chosen the path. We choose to tolerate the government that can operate without the active support of the Swedish Democrats and where we have a great impact on liberal politics. The government we are voting on today is not our preferred option. Unfortunately, however, parliamentary conditions do not exist for a new alliance government. After the 2014 election, all four alliance parties chose to press yellow and release Stefan Löfven. One condition then imposed from the gathering of the A alliances, led by the Moderates, was that the Social Democrats and the Green Party should rule with the support of the Left Party. This was a big mistake that led to a sharp left turn of politics. Today, parliamentary conditions are similar. The alliance lost the election and is smaller than the red-green ones. It would therefore be necessary for the Alliance to seek support from the Swedish Democrats in order to be able to rule. This is not the Center Party prepared to do. We and the Liberals therefore choose to release the Social Democrats. But this time we choose to take responsibility for ourselves and influence politics. By going in and taking responsibility, the Left Party is hooked by the previous budgetary cooperation. Sweden will therefore have a new government, based on a liberal reform agenda. I would like to thank the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the Green Party for constructive talks and strong willingness to compromise. But this is not a free ticket to power for the Social Democrats. The January Agreement shall be honoured and implemented. Trust must be earned, financial year for financial year. The Center Party will be a constructive force in cooperation, but we will also use our freer role as a liberal opposition party to get as much of our policy through as possible. Our responsibility enables Sweden to move from locking to solutions. Our country needs a government. The voters have waited long enough. In today's Prime Minister's vote on Stefan Löfven, the Center Party will abstain, i.e. press yellow. We are a liberal opposition party that takes responsibility for Sweden.
i-d6c2319fa02e1900-72	Mr President, I would like to In the election movement, the Christian Democrats were a vote in favour of a new welfare promise. We were a vote for all those who rarely get to speak: patients, the elderly, families with children and victims without redress. They continue to be at the heart of our policy. It is our priority, to be a voice for those who have no voice. We promised that a vote on KD was a vote for a change of government, precisely because under Stefan Löfven we have experienced a lack of welfare. During the red-green government, care queues grew. It was built too few retirement homes, preschools did not get enough resources to reduce children's groups and they cut in LSS. We meant and believe that there is a need for a different policy and a different government, a new leadership. There is a need for a government that dares to prioritise and can reverse the negative development of welfare. In the agreement that Stefan Löfven now seems to have brokered between in practice five parties, there are many points. But no one can claim that it contains a vision for a well-being that can be trusted. We will not repeat the mistake of letting Stefan Löfven through again. I'm worried about Sweden. If a government is to move a country forward, it needs a clear idea and a goal picture of what it wants to achieve so that everyone pulls in the same direction. Instead, we now look to have a government formed by division and discord. On Wednesday evening we heard Jonas Sjöstedt calmly announce that he and Stefan Löfven had an agreement. Stefan Löfven should not only have guaranteed that the policy of the Left is preserved in the state budget. He will also have promised to reintroduce the left-wing policy that disappeared as the Christian Democrats and Moderates' budgets won the support of this House before Christmas. Just a few minutes later, we could see Annie Lööf standing in the same studio claiming that the Left Party has been cut off from the budget and that the Left Party should not have any influence over the political direction of the coming years. Both of these claims cannot be true at the same time. Someone is fooled, or they try to fool everyone else. It is indeed a genuine privilege to be allowed to stand in the pulpit of the Swedish Parliament. We do it as elected representatives. Today I am a representative and a vote for all those who, in all simplicity and justifiably, ask: What is true? You can't form a government on a lie. To all of you who despair today, however, I would like to say: do not! There will be better days than this. A government that is contrary to itself cannot stand. Until that day, we will give a voice to those who have no voice. We will be a vote for the bourgeois opposition. Mr President, I would like to I hereby inform you that the Christian Democrats will today vote against Stefan Löfven.
i-d6c2319fa02e1900-84	Mr President, I would like to The Parliament is today to take a position on a Prime Minister who has his government base on the left in Swedish politics. Of the mandates behind Stefan Lövven's new government, 75 per cent come from various left-wing parties. Sweden receives 131 days after the election a new left-wing government in a parliament that first deposed Stefan Lövven's government and then confirmed once again that that government lacked parliamentary support. This will, of course, have a significant impact on government policy. Anything else would be strange. That's why you want to form a government. The Moderates' parliamentary group will vote against Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. The red-green government that is now continuing has not been able to deal with Sweden's most obvious social problems over the past four years. The medical queues have doubled. The gang crime with 44 shootings last year has taken over many cities' alienation areas. Police density is now the lowest in ten years. The social contract is being called into question in our country. A government that has failed with Sweden's acute problems and lacks the strength to address the long-term challenges is now allowed to continue ruling. That, Mr President, is a historic mistake. We Moderates were prepared, with the policy of the Alliance and on the terms of the Alliance, to take responsibility for a bourgeois government with one, two, three or all four alliance parties. It would certainly not have been an easy journey, but it had much better reflected the results of the elections and the Riksdag. It would have been much better for Sweden in particular. The government base that is now electing the Prime Minister is basically united by one thing: a democratically dubious desire to exclude other parliamentary parties from influence and not to allow their votes to count. I do not share any of the extreme parties' values, but together the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats have 25 per cent of the voters behind them. That is why, Mr President, the irony of fate is that the government can now take office only when the Left Party has finally been persuaded to have enough influence to release this government. The two parties that the Center Party and the Liberals want to give minimal influence have since the election day defined the entire formation of government. It is the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party that have decided the decisions, from a no to an alliance government to a yes to a left-wing government. This new government is formed because its support parties did not want to take the risk of presenting their own policy in the Riksdag for review and support. The wrong party would then vote for the right policy. But this is wrong. It is abdicating our political responsibility to the electorate. It is abdicating one's own political values and not trusting oneself, in one's own convictions and in one's political integrity. We Moderates don't do that. We go to elections on political proposals that we ourselves believe in, based on our own political values, not those of others. Then we also do everything we can to implement our values into the tile. We do not outsource the highest bidders to implement the political reforms they have been fighting for decades. We do not believe in horse-trading or in a government constellation that makes resistance to others its only truly common political project. The new January agreement is concluded in exactly the same spirit as the old December agreement, with the important addition that the very interpretation of it now takes place in closed spaces and secret agreements between the Social Democrats and the Left Party. The agreement does not at all lack demands for important reforms. But all the ambitions for liberal policy contained in the S-MP-C-L agreement could have been better and more convincing with a bourgeois government. Reforms, of course, need careful preparation, investigation and cooperation, but above all, reforms must be led by people who believe in them and in the political direction of reforms. But not only that: the government option on which the four parties of the Alliance jointly elected had, in this House, with commitment and vigour, even with enthusiasm, realized the political agenda based on common ideas and values. Both politics and the government itself, before the elections, had been honest with the voters. Sweden had then received a government that stood up for the work line and that prioritised our time's really big political tasks, such as integration problems, gang crime and the defence of Sweden in a troubled time. It is not the family weeks of the Social Democrats or the Green Party's free year that will solve Sweden's most acute problems. Bourgeois politics thrive and are simply best run in a bourgeois government. The Centre Party and the Liberals have now, in a formal agreement, forced the left-wing government to accept reforms which these parties have never wanted to implement. However, setting up a left-wing government to carry out liberal reforms for which there was support in this House is a curious detour. At the same time, the executive power over defence, foreign and security policy, criminal policy and the entire government's power of appointment is removed. This is the result of an ill-considered political negotiation. Only time can tell what long-term course this government will take and how often the rear-seat drivers will reach the steering wheel itself. Mr President, I would like to Major political reforms must always be investigated. But to investigate what you really want to do and to investigate what you are reluctantly forced to do are two completely different things. Those of us who have worked on political reforms in practice in the past know that they are always difficult to implement, even if you believe in them. If you don't believe in them, they're almost impossible to implement. Moreover, the government that is now allowed to continue has a habit of delaying what the Riksdag has already decided. For example, parts of the 2015 migration agreement have still not been implemented. I guess they're still being investigated. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has never before received a government like this one, a government that is not united in a common political project or a common picture of Sweden's problems, let alone in a common understanding of where Sweden should be going. This will be the coalition of the unwillings, a marriage of reasoning between parties who have never loved each other and who four months ago did everything they could to convince the Swedish people of that very thing: that they have different values and different opinions and that is precisely why they want different governments. I am in favour of a measure of pragmatism in politics. I'm in favour of distinguishing between the thing and the person and not portraying the opponent as the devil himself. I am in favour of respecting anyone who thinks otherwise and does not deliberately misinterpret the political motives of others. I am in favour of seeking prestigious compromises where you actually think almost the same. This is something completely different. It's unresponsive and unprincipled. It took no more than three days for Stefan Löfven to negotiate with the Left Party on the interpretation of his agreement. Parliament does not know what power the Left Party will have over the new government. Nor does the support parties of the incoming government seem to have any idea. In SVT's News, we were told the other night that the Left Party promises to bring down the government if it implements its agreed reforms and that the Center and Liberals will convict the government if it does not implement its agreed reforms. In both cases, the threats presuppose that those who threaten also receive support from the Swedish Democrats. The moral content of such a political logic is not entirely convincing. This is pure political double standards. And those who now vote in favour of this government in the hope of stability – or more precisely: to avoid an extra choice at all costs – may be surprised. Mr President, I would like to Sweden now has a left-wing government. The bourgeois community of ideas with liberal, conservative and Christian-democratic ideas that really still exist in this Parliament should of course have given us a bourgeois government. It's not gonna happen this time. But I am convinced that the January Agreement will be a parenthesis in Swedish political history. One day it becomes as incomprehensible as the December agreement four years ago. We are slowly adapting to the realities of democracy. But I understand this may take some time. Today, the Center and Liberals are breaking the Alliance at national level. Of course, this has major consequences. But one day people with shared values will come together politically again, cooperate again and seek power together again, as friends who want to get something done usually do. Now is not the time. But I know that time will come. The Moderates are now in opposition. It will be our role to be the uniting force for bourgeois-minded people in Sweden who also want a bourgeois government that takes hold of Sweden's major problems and takes note of Sweden's many possibilities. It is a task, Mr President, that we will take on with the same values and the same commitment that we would have ruled Sweden with and which, with today's decision, becomes more important than in decades. Those voters who voted for another government should know that the Moderates are a bourgeois party that can be trusted. We have resisted before, when others have rather confirmed the ancient Social Democratic self-image that it is really only the Social Democrats who can rule Sweden, and we will do so again. The moderate parliamentary group, Mr President, is therefore voting against the election of Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister of Sweden.
i-Uxcoo9hC3sbugpzTL7v1Gf	If at least 175 of the members of the Riksdag vote no, the Riksdag has rejected the proposal. Otherwise, it has been approved.
i-d6c2319fa02e1900-108	May I ask the incoming Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, to come to the pulpit and get the appointment.
