i-0953ffb8116c8524-1	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson has asked me how I feel that Försäkringskassan works with its regulation letter in a way so that good goal compliance is achieved. Bengt Eliasson has also asked how I make sure that the task of working with the goal of disability policy permeates the work with, among other things, assistance compensation. Let me begin by saying that I am pleased with the added objective of assistance compensation in the Social Insurance Agency's regulatory letter. The new wording means that the agency will actively work to ensure that the national target for disability policy permeates their work with the assistance allowance. To achieve this goal is to a large extent to make society accessible to people with disabilities but also to achieve equality in living conditions and full participation in a society based on diversity. In order for this to be possible, it is necessary, among other things, to identify and address existing gaps in accessibility and to provide individual support and solutions for the individual. With regard to the assistance allowance, I see that the Social Insurance Agency can further develop the accessibility work and how people who are granted support by a personal assistant are given increased opportunities for participation, not least by being able to work or attend an education. The national target is also in line with how the Authority is already working to support the implementation of disability policies. During 2018, for example, the agency's disability council held several meetings. The Disability Council is a forum aimed at actively involving the disability movement in consultations on, among other things, assistance payments. After the Government made the addition in the Social Insurance Agency's regulatory letter in May 2019, I have been informed in dialogue with the agency that they are positive about the new goal of assistance compensation. I also feel a commitment from the authority on this issue and that they will develop working methods that will have an impact on the achievement of good objectives. How the agency has met the target will be analysed when we receive the annual report for 2019. Until then, I will continue to have a dialogue with the Swedish Social Insurance Agency about their work with the national target and how the work should give an impression to people with disabilities who are entitled to assistance compensation.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The big question in the debate today is what participation and equality in living conditions look like for people with disabilities in Sweden. Are we close to the objectives set by the Riksdag, and are we helping individual support to ensure that even those with the greatest needs are included on as equal terms as possible? This is what it is all about. The LSS and its ten operations are unique in many ways. The main difference between the law and the corresponding legislation in other countries is precisely the objective and the purpose. In Sweden, as is well known, LSS is not about offering professional and personalised care. On the contrary, LSS should be a tool to ensure full participation in society even for people who have high individual support needs in their daily lives. There personal assistance is perhaps one of the most effective tools. Madam President, I would like The Social Insurance Agency is the authority that handles the state assistance allowance, which is a prerequisite for people with extensive disabilities to be able to live free and self-determined lives, as other citizens. This has been eroded by a series of judgments and by the inaction of previous governments. During the spring, many have testified that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's already rigorous assessment of the right to assistance compensation has become even tougher. In some counties, it is reported that not a single person received a new application for assistance allowance this year. The effect of Försäkringskassan's hard posture is, among other things, that more people are referred to group housing against their will. This rhymes poorly with goals and assignments that are about equality and participation, and that is not consistent with the regulatory letter that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has to follow. The Government describes the commitment of the Authority to the dialogues that are taking place. The question then remains: When does the Government see that commitment actually turns into action? It is not yet visible in everyday life for people. Does the Government drive this change in the authority in the dialogues?
i-0953ffb8116c8524-13	Madam President, I would like Thanks again for the question, Bengt Eliasson! I'm taking the liberty of broadening things a little bit. Somewhere we wish that we get a discussion that has exactly the entrance that Bengt Eliasson has and not only talks about the state or municipal assistance, but about the overall efforts and really about the whole disability policy. The state assistance allowance has been discussed both now and before. I have no other information to give about how Försäkringskassan works, but it will of course be important to follow the agency's annual report for 2019 as it will be the first possible opportunity for feedback after this regulatory letter. I would also like – I do not know for which time in order – to emphasise that regulatory letters are of course important, but they do not change the law. They're not above the law. The views expressed, not infrequently rightly, by those concerned cannot be satisfied by writing regulatory letters. There is a work going on where Bengt Eliasson's party The Liberals and the Center Party together with the government participates intensively. We just presented a bill on breathing. We have a work and a referral in progress on probe feeding. We are tampering with the directives on self-care, supervision and narrowed parental responsibility. That is how we work, and that is how we have to work. I think it is positive that we are also ensuring that the Social Insurance Agency is given a larger mandate. In addition, I think it would be extremely welcome if we, together with more people in this House, helped to broaden the whole discussion on disability policy and its objectives. I had a meeting with someone yesterday. We had time to have a coffee and to discuss the fact that labour market policy in terms of opportunities to work, study and live alone is crucial for many people. There are many factors involved. You need to feel at Arbetsförmedlingen that this is an important goal and an important work where you should be supportive. For this particular group, it becomes incredibly clear. Perhaps it is a question of resigning from a job that you would otherwise have gone to. These are people who, among many others, convince me that our efforts to improve assistance must continue. Had regulation letters been able to correct this, the journey for Bengt Eliasson, myself and the other parties who collaborated would have been easier. But now it is legislation that needs to be amended, and it makes it difficult and complicated and takes a long time. In the vast majority of cases, we also think it is a good thing that the government, regardless of which parties it cooperates with, cannot change things easily in a regulatory letter without the government having to go through this House, investigators, the Law Council and so on. But it is clear that we feel differently in these cases, where we would like to move faster. However, I would like to emphasise that regulatory letters are one thing and legislation is another. We use regulatory letters in the way we can, and when Försäkringskassan's annual report for 2019 comes we will of course take a renewed discussion about how it has worked, if it has been a good way to work and if the goal has been well formulated. In that dialogue, we will see what the next step is.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-22	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers! Of course, I fully understand what levels these are and what the various instruments that the government has to work with mean and mean. Of course, I agree with what the Government says in those parts. Within the framework of the January Agreement and the budgetary work, we have together to pursue the necessary legislative changes and improvements that are involved in the agreement and in the budget work as quickly as possible. What we are discussing today is possibly in the borderland both inside and outside that work. It is really us who decide how far and far that work should be when we get to the borders around it. The relatively new regulatory letter – I would still like to return to it – requires the authority to reconsider in relation to the line of action previously adopted. Many people feel that there is a discrepancy between actual judgments and daily work. This means that the authority must take on board a rights perspective that will give some new hope to the country's aid beneficiaries. Many people testify that when referring to the Social Insurance Agency's regulatory letter when applying for personal assistance, where it is clear that the agency should work for individual support and solutions for individual independence, it is rejected by administrators as irrelevant. That is, of course, worrying. How does the Government view this? Is the Government discussing precisely that line of action and adherence in the day-to-day work towards what the agency's regulatory letter speaks of? Madam President, I would like In its original reply, the Government addressed the Disability Council within the Authority. It is a good and important function. Until 2016, there was also a supplementary assistance advice within the agency. I'm afraid it was dropped. The disability board of the Social Insurance Agency has a different function to some extent than the assistance council. The Assistance Council regularly discussed individual issues, problems and development specifically of personal assistance. Not least today, in the light of what has happened, it is a very important discussion. In its part, the Disability Council focuses on overall strategic issues relating to the entire area of activity of the Authority and the entire disability policy. That's important, too. How does the Government view this in the light of the meaning of the letter of regulation? Is the question of a new start for the assistance council or any other function where the movement, others initiated and those in need of support can be addressed directly with the authority in a discussion forum? It is about creating a forum for the important issues relating to personal assistance. After all, the Social Insurance Agency needs to discuss directly with representatives of assistance beneficiaries in order to perhaps gain a greater understanding, get further, become more accessible in its daily work and create an understanding of its activities.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-29	Madam President, I would like I come back to the fact that the new target has only existed since May. I think it is a little early to draw too much gear or to stand here and try some sort of evaluation of how it has been followed up, if that is enough and if you work in that direction. I think it is reasonable that the agency should be given 2019 and be allowed to return to the annual report. But this is, of course, one of the things that I think is important in monitoring and in the government dialogue that regularly takes place with the department and with the department's management. That is, of course, very urgent. Then I would like to talk a little bit about the January agreement, because I think it is very positive. But I think it sounds like you've signed something and that that's exactly what you're supposed to do, no more or less. I am pleased that Bengt Eliasson is doing the same interpretation as I am, namely that this agreement as well as laying the foundations for cooperation. In this area it is quite clear. We're taking a pretty big step. With regard to investigative directives on self-care, supervision and narrowing parental responsibility, it is clear that the question is: how should we formulate this? It is a question of doing so with these ambitions and of thinking, of course, about assistance payments. But it is clear that we see it in a context where we think and believe that it is national disability policy that is the overall objective. There we do a small part, I would say, and the Social Insurance Agency does some. The assistance allowance is very important, but the entire disability policy has many parts. I think it is incredibly important and welcome that more committees in the Riksdag discuss how people with disabilities can get a job more easily. It is about them being able to get support in finding a job with the right conditions. A large part of this group has the opportunity to work, but some adjustments may be required. Better accessibility or better tools are needed. Of course, assistants are crucial to some. The work continues, I would say. As far as the regulatory letter is concerned, once again, we will follow it up. In this dialogue, I look forward to Bengt Eliasson and the other parties participating in our cooperation.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-34	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, for your answer and for clarification. There are four specific objectives in disability policy that break down the overall major UN-oriented Convention objective. It is about individual support and solutions for individual autonomy, about the principle of universal design, about correcting existing gaps in accessibility and about preventing and combating discrimination. It is a powerful tool for restoring assistance and LSS, if we use it correctly. Finally, I must stress that the Liberals are deeply concerned that the new regulatory letter does not seem to have any effect at this early stage. We expect the government, preferably in cooperation with us, to quickly and continuously follow up the agency's work on this and the compliance with the mission that is actually described in the regulation letter. I would like to thank the Government for today's debate. It will certainly have a continuation.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-39	Madam President, I would like I think it was nice that Bengt Eliasson read out the four objectives of disability policy. Then I'll save time by not doing it. But it is clear that it is very important to bear this in mind. Disability policy, as I have tried to come up with during this discussion, is broad and must be present in more policy areas and in the involvement of more politicians at many different levels. I still want to feel that I've been clear. I say that regulatory letters do not change the application of law. It can't do that. I have been saying this since the day I was given the task, but also during the time when I myself sat on the Social Committee, when the judgment came in 2009 and when the committee gathered called the then departmental management to the committee to ask: how do we do now? It's always incredibly hard. I think that recognition should be given to everyone who is working hard on this issue. It's very difficult. We are not used to legislation where it is courts rather than the Swedish Parliament that makes the decision. We are struggling with this, and we are struggling with this. I would like to give that recognition to all those who are working hard on this issue. We're doing the best we can. I am extremely aware of the slow progress of the person concerned, but, unfortunately, regulatory letters are no easier way than legislation.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-42	Madam President, I would like Linda Ylivainio has asked the Minister for the Interior if the Government believes that the removal of border barriers to ambulances deserves priority in the government work. Linda Ylivainio has also asked whether the Government could take the initiative for a solution in line with the proposal put forward by SKL. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The interpeller has identified an important issue. Cross-border ambulance care is important for patients to have access as quickly as possible to good and safe care even in areas where the distance between the patient, ambulance and hospital can be large. Effective collaboration is also of great importance to the authorities in the planning of health care in the border areas concerned. Sweden has long concluded health preparedness agreements with the Nordic countries on mutual assistance in the event of accidents in peacetime. There are also border rescue agreements regarding ambulance and ambulance helicopters transport between Sweden, Norway and Finland in the regions concerned. The cooperation means that the nearest road ambulance or ambulance helicopter is alerted in case of emergency alarms in the border area, regardless of which nation the resource comes from. The request from SKL concerns the lack of support in existing legislation for day-to-day cooperation in the field of cross-border ambulance transport. One of the challenges that we need to review in Norwegian and Swedish collaboration in cross-border prehospital care is that ambulances are staffed by various professions in Sweden and Norway. Another challenge concerns traffic regulations. Norwegian ambulances cannot be registered as emergency vehicles in the Swedish Road Traffic Register and therefore do not have the right to call for free access to emergency services. Effective collaboration is important not least for patients in need of cross-border ambulance care to receive good and safe care. It is not reasonable that border cooperation with the Nordic countries in this important area does not have any support in the regulatory framework. Urgent management is therefore needed to get a regulatory framework in place that supports this in order to ensure that cooperation is carried out in the best possible way. The Government Office has initiated a dialogue with the relevant authorities with a view to further examining how such a review can be carried out in the best possible way.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-50	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer. It is incredibly satisfying that we are largely doing the same analysis of the problems that make it impossible for us to make full use of the potential of ambulance transport across the borders of the Nordic countries. I find it very gratifying and promising that the Minister for Social Affairs shares my view and that others have to take urgent measures to ensure constitutional support for day-to-day cross-border cooperation with ambulances across the border in the Nordic countries. Given that regions such as Jämtland Härjedalen and Norrbotten, as well as the Swedish Municipalities and County Council and the Norwegian Ministry of Health, have been trying for several years to call the Swedish Ministry of Social Affairs' attention to address these border barriers, I am the first to welcome the initiative of the Minister of Social Affairs to investigate how a review of the Swedish rules that create these barriers can be carried out. Although there has long been cooperation on ambulance and ambulance helicopter transport through the border rescue agreement mentioned by the Minister, I share the SKL's and the Minister's assessment that Swedish legislation needs to be developed in order to more aggressively support the possibility of daily cooperation. For all of us who live and work in Sweden's fantastic border regions, whether it is in Tornedalen, neighbor with Finland across the Torne River – which I myself have the privilege to do – or on the western side of Sweden with the border with Norway or in Skåne with Denmark on the other side of Sundet, the border is primarily an opportunity and an asset rather than a problem and an obstacle. We who are frontierrs and spoiled with good neighbors feel very rich. We've got double everything. We have access to the supply on both sides of the border. We move across and cross the border constantly. We shop on the other side, we work on the other side and we have loved ones on both sides of the border. We're frontierrs. Madam President, I would like The limit is sometimes also double. It's both there and it's not. It's not always visible, but sometimes. Often we hardly notice that the border is there. But suddenly it stops us. It hinders us and impinges on our mobility and our daily lives. Our great world is shrinking. Our limitless possibilities are unnecessarily limited, not infrequently by bureaucratic obstacles. These are rules that work and are needed in a nation state but that complicate it when the good solutions are close at hand. One example of border barriers that we can and must eliminate with political force and concrete changes in regulations is precisely those that prevent the efficient use of ambulances and ambulances between Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark, whether on land, in water or in the air. When we visited the hospital in Rø ros in the Nordic Council at the beginning of August, in addition to Norwegian healthcare professionals, representatives of Region Jämtland Härjedalen and Funäsdalen's health centre also met with us, we learned more about the conditions for conducting cross-border healthcare. For the individual affected by illness or accident, the most important thing is quick and safe care. For the poor skier who breaks his leg on the holiday in Funäsdalen, it is more important to get care quickly than that the ambulance happens to be Norwegian or Swedish, or to get to the hospital in Norwegian Rø rose or to the hospital a little further away in Östersund. This is also the case if you have a cardiac arrest during the moose hunt in Kuivakangas or if you have a traffic accident in Töcksfors. It is for the individual person that we must remove these barriers and provide legal support. I feel that the Minister for Social Affairs and I agree in quite a lot, but I miss the small part relating to drug management that I have made visible in the interpellation. I would therefore ask the Minister to develop that part.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-63	Madam President, I would like What a declaration of love for Nordic cooperation! That's amazing to hear. This is reminded of every time you are in the border region, just as Linda Ylivainio describes. I myself grew up in Kalmar, so I have certainly not grown up with this; on the contrary, it is a very clear and sharp limit that can hardly be entered. Of course, it is incredibly urgent that we do this, but for listeners and others, I would still like to describe what the obstacles are. In emergency situations, the border does not stop. But if we take Norway and Sweden as an example, which is also included in the interpellation, ambulances are staffed in the countries by different professional categories. In Sweden, ambulances should be staffed with healthcare professionals who are allowed to administer medicines. This means in practice that Swedish ambulances are staffed with certified nurses. Similar provisions exist in both Denmark and Finland, so there is no such problem. In Norway, on the other hand, road ambulances are usually staffed with ambulances e, as it is called, who do not have an education corresponding to Sweden's nursing training and who today are not allowed to administer medicines in ambulances in Sweden. Even if we were to regulate this with staffing, we have demands on what competence we want to have when driving a Swedish ambulance and thus are part of the important chain of Swedish healthcare. That is why it is so incredibly important to know that the skills available when calling for an ambulance are equivalent to ours, and then it does not matter where the ambulance came from. Of course it's an important part. As far as traffic regulations are concerned, Norwegian ambulances cannot be registered as emergency vehicles in the Swedish Road Traffic Register and are therefore unable to call for freeway. Today, urgent transports with foreign ambulances are to be carried by police escorts. If you want to do this as part of daily work, this is a barrier that cannot just be removed. We really need to ensure that we handle them in a way that makes it safe both on the road and in an ambulance and that all the ambulances we use in Sweden become a natural and real part of that chain. I'm not sure I missed a question from Linda Ylivainio. Did I possibly answer that now with what I said about drugs, or was there another question? Let me return to the urgency of the matter. SKL has gathered around this and came in with a letter as late as 1 July, so it is very recently. We have also handled and handled it in terms of how to proceed. What kind of review is required to deal with not just one but all these problems? The Ministry of Social Affairs has received the letter itself, but as is clear, it is not just the areas of the Ministry of Social Affairs. When it comes to traffic regulations, it is another area. When it comes to controlled drugs that are transported across the land border, the law on the control of drugs allows drugs to be introduced into or out of the country only by the person authorised to do so. It is clear that it is not something that we lightly change, but it is the same thing there: currently, foreign ambulances are not allowed to bring in drug-class drugs. That is one of the specific issues that we need to look further at. Perhaps that was Linda Ylivainio question.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-71	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It was precisely the latter issue that I was looking for, so I thank the Minister for that. I would like to come back to why it is so important that we work on removing border barriers. It is precisely for the sake of the individual people that we need to do this – all the people who are staying and living in these border areas. That is why we need to work intensively to remove border barriers. There is also another aspect, and that is that not least in many border regions between Sweden and Norway and Sweden and Finland there are often great distances. It is also sparse and far between hospitals. There is simply not a dense infrastructure of healthcare resources. This makes ambulance capacity even more important when it comes to life or death for a person. Here, cooperation within the EU and the Nordic region between law enforcement authorities has progressed a little further. I think that it can be a model for how healthcare services can cooperate and perform ambulance missions in a similar way if necessary. Madam President, I would like For those of us who are elected politicians, in the government, in the Swedish parliament and in the Nordic Council, it is also an important political task to continue working to remove obstacles between the Nordic countries. We must also take our share of the responsibility for dealing with problems in people's everyday lives. I certainly fully share the Minister's view that it is not reasonable that border cooperation between the Nordic countries in this important area should not be supported in the regulatory framework. It is therefore challenging and binding that the Minister for Social Affairs today announces the start of a dialogue with the relevant authorities. For me, as an interpellant, I would by no means like to claim to have given a comprehensive or exhaustive picture of all the aspects and challenges that constitute the obstacles that need to be removed in order for us to provide adequate legal support to emergency services with cross-border ambulances. Nevertheless, I understand that we agree to try pragmatic solutions to the fact that ambulances are currently manned by various professional categories in Norway and Sweden. I also understand that the Minister for Social Affairs is also in favour of reviewing the traffic regulations, which do not allow the right for other Nordic ambulances to call for free access to expressions on Swedish soil. It is important today that practitioners and professionals who have been involved in the issue in the regions, in Swedish municipalities and county councils and on the Norwegian side are now reached by the Minister for Social Affairs' signal, and the good news, that their voices have finally been heard. Their struggle to provide patients with fast and safe care brings results. Many of us look forward to constructive solutions in this area. Nevertheless, when the Minister for Social Affairs is here, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question if, on the basis of her experience of Nordic and European cooperation, she sees any difference in the Nordic countries' choice of degree for European integration. When we visited the hospital in Rø ros, the Norwegian and Swedish representatives pointed out that it was possibly easier at the Swedish-Finnish border because both countries are in the European Union, while it was slightly lumpier with Norway. This hasn't been lifted up by the SKL in its petition. It is no wonder because the problems must of course be solved regardless of the way the individual Nordic country has chosen.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-79	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again that, in the case of exceptional events, there is no doubt that the nearest helicopter or ambulance is moving in. There should be no doubt about this. Then we help each time each other to agree on how to handle costs and consequences. There are border rescue agreements in the border regions concerned, and they apply to Sweden, Norway and Finland. There will be a difference between Sweden and Denmark. I'm a little free, but the distances are definitely not in Swedish – Danish-side. However, there may be other challenges there. But it is clear that it is specific that we need to work together and help each other. The basis for the entire Nordic cooperation is that we have the same idea of what conditions are required for the Nordic model to continue. We think there are differences between our countries, but when we meet European colleagues they see the Nordic model. This applies not least to how incredibly important it is to have welfare, joint funding, care according to needs and cooperation. They don't feel the boundaries as strongly as we do. Let me give a very spontaneous answer to the question. I do not have the impression that it would be more difficult to handle Sweden – the Norway border than Sweden – the Finnish border with regard to the EU. That's what a review will show, but it hasn't gotten to me this far. Linda Ylivainio spoke about pragmatic solutions. I believe that we should be pragmatic in finding solutions. It's not as simple as it sounds. I'd still like to say that because we want to take the step-- it's urgent-- but it's not entirely straightforward. I have visited SOS Alarm myself, and I see what an incredible puzzle they put when they are going to conduct ambulances and other rescue vehicles, talk to people and so on. It is not entirely straightforward when other countries come in. Somewhere there is also the question of who to turn to when the situation is not urgent. Is it always the closest one? It's not entirely self-evident. I have not had any reason to go into such ethical issues, but such matters also need to be considered. It is incredibly urgent to review and, in this context, to try to highlight all the possible problems that may exist, so that we either find solutions to them or decide that there are certain things that are more difficult to solve than others and that the issues need to be addressed in part. Nevertheless, the ambition is clear that we want to achieve better cooperation. We share the view expressed both by the interpellier and by Mr SKL in his letter, namely that the issue must be reviewed at various levels. I say again that in the event of exceptional events there should be no doubt that cooperation works. It's not like someone says, "That's a shame, there's a Norwegian ambulance nearby, but it can't help you." Then you solve the situation. But solving these issues in everyday life or during holiday periods, or in other contexts with long distances and when the wrong country's ambulance is closest, is something that citizens see and we also see. Let us hope that we will have the opportunity to come back to the outcome of a review and how we can proceed.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-86	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I can only underline what the Minister says about the fact that there is no immediate danger of not getting prompt care. Since I live and work in the Torne Valley, I have my own experiences in the family that Finnish ambulances have come to the rescue when needed. It is a great comfort to rest in the fact that we are solving the issues. On the other hand, I believe that we politicians have a responsibility to meet the demands of the profession to get the business regulated. That is why it is so important to address the border barriers and knots that the Minister has so well described today. It is also gratifying to hear that the Nordic countries and Nordic cooperation are being promoted as a model in European cooperation. There is a major joint task for the Government and the Riksdag to revitalise, renew and empower Nordic cooperation. Many feel that, with EU cooperation, Nordic cooperation has played its part a little bit. I share the Minister's experience, and I believe that we have a lot to contribute when we work and act together to develop our countries for the benefit of our citizens. Many of us are looking forward to the continued journey at work, and it will be exciting. We hope for constructive solutions so that we can make optimal use of existing ambulance resources and ensure that help comes closest and fastest from any side of the border. I would like to thank the Minister for the debate today, and I look forward to the further work.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-92	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, for the debate. Nordic cooperation is certainly important for the Nordic countries. Of course, it is most noticeable when you are in border areas when you get the exchange that is just as obvious as working together across a county border in Sweden. I have met my Danish and Finnish colleagues, and I look forward to meeting my Norwegian colleague in the future to have this very kind of dialogue and conversation. I would like to conclude by saying that it is no exaggeration to say that many people are looking at the Nordic model. We'll be proud ourselves. I can sometimes think that there are contexts where we do not really understand how far forward we have come and what an exceptionally amazing model we actually have in how we jointly organize, fund and, as necessary, get access to things we cannot handle on our own. I look forward to continuing discussions on these issues at home in Sweden and in the Nordic context, and I hope that everyone in this House will take every opportunity to highlight the work that has been done historically and all the opportunities ahead.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-96	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me how I intend to act so that young people will not feel, or be forced to participate in political demonstrations. The question is posed by the climate demonstrations that many children and young people have taken part in over the past year. Let me begin by stating that it is very positive that children and young people around the world are currently engaged in important political issues and stand up for their rights. Today, many children in Sweden are deeply concerned about global warming and about their future and that of humanity. Many also want to express this concern to us adults and demand action. In our democratic governance, children, like adults, have the right to express their thoughts, opinions and feelings freely, as well as to participate in gatherings for opinion formation and demonstrations. These rights are enshrined both in our constitution and in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that both children and adults in Sweden have a constitutional right towards the general public to avoid giving their opinion on political and other issues. Nor should the general public be forced to attend an assembly for opinion-forming or demonstration. The school, as well as all public activities in Sweden, must take into account the principle of objectivity in the form of government, which means observing objectivity and impartiality in its activities. I have full confidence in the Swedish school in this regard. In conclusion, it is important that pupils' participation in demonstrations and similar gatherings is based on voluntary activity. To the extent that students' opinions on climate or other societal issues take place at school, it is important that our schools and our school staff handle this in a well thought-out and adequate manner in accordance with current regulations.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-101	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I appreciate the fact that the Government, in its response to my interpellation, emphasises our constitutionally protected right to express freely our thoughts, opinions and feelings both in general and in organised forms like the relevant demonstrations. There is, of course, no difference of opinion here, either between me and the Minister for Culture and Democracy or between us and the common people in the country. Having said that, it is undeniably the freedom of every individual to decide for himself which, if any, expressions of opinion in general or demonstrations in particular that this individual wants to do or be part of. The other side of the coin with regard to our constitutionally protected freedom of demonstration is precisely the right to renounce it, Madam President, and the Minister for Culture and Democracy states in his response that this should be respected. In its reply, the Government also said that it is very positive that children and young people are involved in the matter and that the Government has in this context full confidence in the Swedish school in relation to the problem involved – in other words that there is no explicit or implicit coercion. I am, as a consequence of the dialogues I have had with students from around the country, somewhat more skeptical. Media has reported on how schools have allowed participation in demonstrations to be mandatory, as many students have also testified to me. As a rule, participation is then ascribed to being a part of the ordinary business. It raises the question whether the government had acted as passively as if pupils around the country as part of their teaching had been forced to participate in demonstrations for other issues of substance policy of, say, a more bourgeois or right-wing nature. But, Madam President, even in cases where explicit coercion has not occurred, the Minister for Culture and Democracy must understand what social pressure is created in the wake of the more or less hysteria that sometimes prevails. Although you as a right-wing young guy or girl find the climate issue important, you hardly want to participate in obviously left-wing demonstrations like the climate demonstrations that have taken place. But what does the Government mean that these young people should do when classmates call them nerds just because they want to take part in school education instead of ditching, when their school chooses to have videos and films about Greta Thunberg as part of compulsory education, when their school assignments are redrafted and around the climate demonstrations agenda, when their teachers urge them to both skip and strike and when their teachers themselves participate in the demonstrations under slogans about Teachers for Future? Can the Minister for Culture and Democracy say with his heart that she had not felt obliged to participate in order to avoid sticking out, in order to avoid revealing divergent political views? If the Government can claim and prove that there has been no explicit or implicit coercion of the character described, I absolutely look forward to that statement. If, on the other hand, the Government, like me, sees this as a fact and a democracy problem, I would like to refer back to my original question in the interpellation: how does the Government intend to act so that more young people will not feel, or be forced, to participate in political demonstrations?
i-0953ffb8116c8524-108	Madam President, I would like On the question of principle, my view is crystal clear: any participation in opinions in Sweden, whatever they may be, should be based on voluntaryity and independent decisions of individuals, i.e. in accordance with our constitution and on the principles of democracy. Like Tobias Andersson, I do not think this is a partisan issue in Swedish politics. I believe that everyone in this House agrees that statements of opinion should be voluntary. Now Tobias Andersson seems to be of the opinion that pressure from schools for students to participate in climate demonstrations has been widespread. The truth is that we know nothing about this issue, and generalisations based on individual cases are liable to be misleading. Again: It is important that the school, like all public activities in Sweden, takes into account the principle of objectivity according to the government form and observes the objectivity and impartiality of its activities. At the same time, one of the basic aims of primary and secondary schools is to provide pupils with a good foundation also in the form of active participation in society, and then the school cannot isolate itself from society and current social issues. Tobias Andersson asks me how I intend to act so that young people will not feel compelled by the school to participate in political demonstrations. The answer is once again that constitutional regulation is clear in this area: no one can or should be forced by the public to participate in meetings or demonstrations against their will. There are also clear and long-term structures for the supervision of schools. The responsibility to ensure compliance with the Constitution rests with the school's principals, i.e. the municipalities and the boards of independent schools. I have full confidence that the school's principals, together with the school leaders and schools, will comply with the laws and regulations in this area. However, to the extent that wrong decisions are still made and infringements occur in individual schools, the School Inspectorate has the important task of supervising. So we have a clear, long-term structure here in Sweden to catch up on the type of irregularities we are talking about here. Should it be suspected that the responsibility has been broken, then it is to the Swedish School Inspectorate that the regular supervisory authority can also submit complaints to private individuals.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-115	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I cannot recall using this expression, which is very common. However, it is a fact that this has happened; it shows the reporting both from the media and from those who have come to me and colleagues and told me about it. I would argue that it does not have to be commonplace to be serious. I think that every time a constitutional right is violated, it is a serious problem that should and should be discussed in this House. Hence this interpellation. Having said that, in this speech I would like to focus on nuanced the image of the demonstrations concerned. Madam President, I would like I would have been prepared to agree with the Minister for Culture and Democracy that it is a good thing for young people to get so involved in this if the climate demonstrations had actually been politically neutral and demonstrated a genuine desire to protect the environment and the climate. If they were able to deliver objective and well-founded proposals on what we as politicians should embrace and implement in order to achieve the goals and visions that they are supposed to have, that would have been a good thing. This is certainly not the case, however. I observed the climate demonstrations in Stockholm on September 20 and 27 and had the privilege of talking with and interviewing several of those who were there. Believe me, it was a clear list to the left, and an alarming number of people expressed deeply undemocratic wishes and proposals both in text and verbally – something that can certainly be seen as problematic in itself for a Minister for Democracy, but above all something that is aggravated by the fact that students have witnessed that participation in these very demonstrations has been coercion. In order to give the Government an idea of what I am referring to, I would like to point out that the demonstrations originate from a person who has been photographed in a T-shirt from Afa – the same violent left-wing organization that has, over the years, physically attacked members and sympathizers of my party. On site at the demonstrations were people from the same organization and various obvious anarchists. The common thread of the demonstrators seemed to be a desire for revolution rather than a democratically-based reform agenda in this area. Marxist book tables were the first to meet me. The hammer and the sickle were found on signs and placards. Incitements to do away with the rich, compost rich, and burn both capitalism and capitalists were found, while functionaries carried anti-SD-pins. Against this background, I believe that the problem is nuanced and deepened. The Minister for Culture and Democracy cannot reasonably think that it is only good for Swedish students to take part in this and that it is only a favorable expression of democracy in an attempt to protect our environment and climate, when clearly anti-democratic messages have been made clearly in the demonstrations that have taken place in our capital. My follow-up question will be how the Government views itself with the anti-democratic messages that have been expressed. Does she see an in-depth problem in that children and young people share them as part of their teaching and thus also under the influence of those forms?
i-0953ffb8116c8524-125	Mrs. Old President! The fact that many children and young people want to engage in stopping global warming is fundamentally an extremely positive thing. It is about a commitment to our common future and about young people, perhaps for the first time in their lives, claiming their civil rights to influence society. Both as Minister for Democracy and in my role as responsible for youth policy, I consider it very important that children and young people are encouraged to be socially involved in the issues they consider important and that they are equipped during their time in school with the knowledge and skills they need for active citizenship. According to the School Act, one of the school's main tasks is to provide children and young people with a good basis for active participation in society. At the same time, it is, once again, important that the school's activities respect the principle of objectivity and are impartial in political matters. It can certainly mean more or less difficult balance for schools in some cases. However, as I said, I have full confidence that schools and school staff are dealing with this in a well-thought-out and adequate manner in accordance with the regulatory framework we have. As Minister of Democracy, I do not see it as my role to review associations or demonstrations or messages highlighted there. I am, of course, opposed to anti-democratic messages. At the same time, as Tobias Andersson probably knows, our democratic governance is characterised by far-reaching freedom of expression. This means that it is permitted to also be negative to democratic governance and to represent messages that, for example, the Minister for Culture and Democracy does not like. That is how it should be, of course, given that one remains within the limits of freedom of expression and other fundamental laws. Recent climate demonstrations are among the largest manifestations that have taken place in Sweden. Up to 60,000 people participated in Stockholm on September 27, and manifestations took place in up to 100 places in Sweden, with a variety of messages. I would like to state that it is fundamentally positive that there is a great commitment from the peoples' movement to important political issues.
i-F9TVb8y3MMsRNM5q9AWVM	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, once again, for the answer from the Government. I absolutely share the Government's description of the need for and value of the freedom of expression we have in Sweden and the importance of its constant protection and affirmation. I also see a value in young people getting involved in major societal issues and agreeing with that description. At the same time, it becomes problematic if one actively engages and is passionate about climate and the environment and participates in demonstrations where there is a clearly revolutionary message. From a broader perspective of democracy, which is reasonably on the table of the Minister for Culture and Democracy, it may appear that it can ultimately become problematic if, as a young person, you engage in a movement for reasons of substance but constantly during your meeting with such a movement, you take note of messages about overturning the existing systems and institutions and abolishing much of the democratic process that is taking place at present, with the view that the objectives in the long term always justify the means. The final questions I would like to put to the Minister for Culture and Democracy are whether she is concerned that this type of anti-democratic message and values will gain a stronger grip when they are openly allowed to take place in the important demonstrations that are taking place, what developments this leads to in society and what consequences it ultimately has.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-132	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking Tobias Andersson for an interesting debate and interesting questions. The climate issue is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and how we act on this issue determines the conditions for our common future. It is no wonder that many children and young people are concerned about development and are committed to influence. The many young people who have chosen to strike climate and participate in manifestations in their free time have taken a drastic step. They challenge us adults by not going to school and by putting the responsibility on us and demanding that we act now. It is distressing that we and our generation have put our children in a situation where they feel that they need to choose between a sustainable future and, for example, to participate in school education. Within the framework of democracy, it is positive when changes come from below and when citizens create change through debate, organize together and try to influence social development with good arguments and peaceful means. I welcome a broad peoples' movement for the climate with a multifaceted palette of proposals and solutions on how to cope with the transformation of society and on the fact that for the first time, many young people in connection with the climate demonstrations tried to publicly express their opinion and take their active citizenship seriously. Again – I generally view with concern the anti-democratic tendencies that exist in society, no matter where they come from. I do not see that it is part of my role as a minister to review expressions that emerge from demonstrations. No one should be forced to express an opinion or to attend an assembly; there we agree. At the same time, it is clear that we also differ on certain issues: what sources are required to back up a claim and whether we as politicians should review a demonstration or not. But, as I said, we should include more people in democratic society, and no one should feel compelled to participate.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-137	Mrs. Old President! Josefin Malmqvist has asked the Minister for Finance why the government has removed the lowest unemployment target in the EU by 2020 and what measures the Minister intends to take as unemployment rises while the employment rate and participation rate fall. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The unemployment target appeared during the last parliamentary term as a steering year for government policy. During this period, unemployment fell by over 11⁄2 percentage points and youth unemployment decreased by good 5 percentage points. The unemployment rate increased by over 300 000 people, of which 200 000 were born abroad. At the same time, the number of hours worked continuously increased. The whole growth in jobs took the form of regular jobs, not subsidised jobs. Today, we note that the Swedish labour market continues to be strong despite a slowdown in the first half of 2019. The employment rate is historically high among both women and men and is the highest in the EU among women. No other EU country has a larger share of its population in the labour force. The establishment of new arrivals in the labour market has accelerated in recent years. In the 2019 budget decided by the Riksdag, the scope for active labour market policy was significantly reduced. Against this background, the government in the budget proposal for 2020 proposes a number of labour market policy measures that mitigate the previously announced resource reductions and provide better conditions for good results. An active labour market policy is important to sustain employment in the context of an economic slowdown. Resources should continue to be given priority to those who are far from the labour market, such as the long-term unemployed and some new arrivals. It is important that the start-up of the labour market is speeded up for newcomers, and especially for newly arrived women. It is also important that efforts are allocated from a gender perspective. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government proposes investments for a total of SEK 1.3 billion to equip more people for work and for better integration, a continuation of the expansion of the Kunskapsläftet and an active business policy. In addition, the Government intends to introduce an initial deduction aimed at making it more attractive to employ people who have not yet established themselves in the labour market and persons who have long been excluded from the labour market. The Government also proposes in the budget bill that resources be added to increase the number of participants in procured matching services that correspond to the focus on the reform of the Employment Service. More long-term unemployed and newcomers who are far from the labour market should be able to receive an additional or introductory job. The Government also proposes that resources be provided to mitigate the reduction in additional and introductory services and to enable more unemployed people to receive labour market training, thus meeting the skills needed and counteracting labour shortages. A well-designed active labour market policy helps more people to get into work. Work is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and establishment in society.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-145	Mrs. Aged, Your President! Six years ago, Stefan Löfven promised that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. At that time, Sweden was in place ten in the EU. It was assumed that Sweden's unemployment would fall faster than in other EU countries. Since then, however, Sweden's unemployment rate has fallen more slowly than in all 27 EU Member States. The government says it's about the M-KD budget. However, participation in various types of work at the Employment Service decreased long before the M-KD budget was decided by the House, so that is not the reason. Now, a few months before January 2020 when the target would be achieved, the government chooses to remove the target. That is why my question is: why has the government removed the case?
i-0953ffb8116c8524-148	Mrs. Old President! As Josefin Malmqvist says, this objective no longer exists as a steering year for labour market policy. This has been the case for a number of years, and it was important for the government's labour market policy. We have a new political situation with the January agreement, where the government cooperates with the Liberals and the Centers. Based on this, we have other types of ambition together. I am proud that Sweden has historically high levels of employment. The government has done a good job. However, I cannot take credit because I have been new to the post office for a month. What is important is that we follow developments in the labour market in the future. We start from high levels and should be proud of how it looks on the Swedish labour market, although there are a lot of challenges. Now we see a slowdown in the economy, and then it is important that politics does not focus backwards but forwards. We need to equip people for the new jobs that come into the economy. We need to be able to act in the face of the slowdown in the economy that we have begun to see. All parties must therefore be prepared to deploy additional resources if necessary.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-153	Mrs. Old President! So it was six years since Stefan Löfven set this goal, and since then it has only gone in the wrong direction. It has gone better for the other EU countries than for Sweden, even though the Social Democrats said then that things would go better for us than for them. My second question in the interpellation concerned the statement by the Minister of Finance in Agenda 22 September. Unemployment is the proportion of the population at the disposal of the labour market, and a previous social democratic policy has been about, so to speak, removing people from the labour force in order to conceal unemployment. In Agenda, the Minister for Finance said that she had been concerned that unemployment was rising if it had not been because the employment rate and participation rate were so high. But now we see that both the employment rate and the participation rate and the number of hours worked in the Swedish economy are falling. I therefore ask the Minister for Employment: what measures does the Minister intend to take to increase these parameters?
i-0953ffb8116c8524-156	Mrs. Old President! It is positive that the employment rate and job growth are increasing across Europe. We depend on Europe going well because it is a major trading partner. About 60% of our exports go there, so we really have an interest in the success of all the EU Member States. I look forward to meeting the labour ministers of the EU countries in two weeks' time. I believe that we on the European continent can inspire each other a great deal, which is important for competitiveness and growth. I therefore see no problem with the success of Europe, rather the opposite; it is also important for Sweden. Mrs. Old President! I am asked what action I intend to take. An important measure is the information we gave in the budget presentation about a change in the course of labour market policy with an investment of SEK 1.3 billion to ensure continued good reform of the Employment Service and to provide additional resources to, for example, additional services and labour market training. We make sure to equip Sweden. It is important to have a long-term perspective. We need to be able to deal with short-term cyclical fluctuations, but for me, labour market policy is very much about building and ensuring a good future for our country. We have a situation where artificial intelligence, new technology shifts and an absolutely necessary green transition will affect the development of the labour market and working life. This will mean the creation of new jobs, and we need to be equipped for it. That is why we need more education policy in labour market policy and more labour market policy in education policy. By this I mean, among other things, that it is important for education policy to keep up with the changes that are taking place in the labour market so that the education system and the supply of education are adapted to the needs and, not least, the opportunities that exist in future technological developments. I hope that we will be able to have a full focus on this. Of course, we must also deal with the short time horizons and ensure that we are equipped to deal with the slowdown in the economy depending on how it develops and how long it will last. But as I said, we must ensure Sweden's long-term competitiveness, seize the opportunities offered by technology development and ensure that everyone has the opportunity to participate in this journey. Security and development in working life is my focus.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-164	Mrs. Old President! The answer I get from the Minister for Labour when I call for concrete measures to break this trend is therefore more expensive and inefficient labour market interventions, such as extra services, which are subsidised to almost 110%. Evaluations show that about 2 percent of those who have participated in extra services have moved on to unsubsidised work, which means that these jobs have cost about SEK 30 million per job.
i-0953ffb8116c8524-166	Mrs. Old President! I would like to start by saying that I have noticed that there is a great deal of focus on the issue of the goal of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The goal has worked as a good steering year for labour market policy. I am proud of what was delivered during the last parliamentary term. Then we have a number of challenges, which I think Josefin Malmqvist raises up in a good way. I do not agree that extra services would be a bad thing. I think it is important that in labour market policy we focus on accuracy. Tax money should be used effectively, and we should be able to expect the results of the efforts made. At the same time, it is important that we have different types of measures, because people's needs are different. This must be allowed to govern labour market policy. For the newly arrived women who have been given an extra job and who are thus able to enter the labour market, this means a great deal. I hope that we will not lose sight of this type of measure, which means a great deal to people's ability to establish themselves in the workplace and get their CVs that they have contributed there. Work is the foundation of our prosperity. With this I would like to thank the interpellant and wish you a nice weekend.
