i-8d42f2169703087c-2	Mr President, I would like to Ludvig Aspling has asked Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson if the Minister agrees that it is now time for Sweden to begin diplomatic work on drawing up diplomatic guarantees in response to a number of attentive expulsion decisions issued under the Special Alien Control Act, often referred to as LSU. The interpellation has been handed over to me. In the process of discovering potential security threats in migration to Sweden, the Migration Agency and the Swedish Security Service are working closely together. These so-called security matters are handled today under both the Aliens Act and the Special Alien Control Act. In security matters under the Aliens Act, the Swedish Security Service has an important role to play, among other things, before the Migration Agency decides the issue. Decisions may then be appealed to the Migration Court. Certain safety matters are of such a nature that their outcome is of particular importance for Sweden's safety. These are mainly cases where internal security is exposed to a serious threat, such as cases involving foreigners with strong links to international terrorism. These qualified security matters are dealt with in accordance with the Special Alien Control Act following an application from the Swedish Security Service. The Finnish Immigration Service's expulsion decision under the Special Alien Control Act can be appealed to the Government. Before the Government examines the appeal, the Migration Court of Appeal shall give its opinion on whether there are obstacles to the enforcement of the expulsion decision. If the Migration Court of Appeal considers that such an obstacle to enforcement exists, the Government may not deviate from that assessment. Each case is unique, and there is therefore no general answer to the question of diplomatic guarantees. In the case of individual cases, I cannot comment either on which measures for the enforcement of expulsion decisions under the Special Alien Control Act can or should be taken. But, of course, expulsion decisions should be enforced whenever possible. In cases under the Special Alien Control Act, it is the Government that examines the decisions of the Finnish Immigration Service. It is therefore directly inappropriate for me to comment on the handling of these matters.
i-8d42f2169703087c-9	Mr President, I would like to It is not uncommon that expulsion decisions cannot be enforced on the basis of the principle of non-refoulement, which means that Sweden is a part of the responsibility if it is the case that an expelled person is subjected to torture or insulting treatment in his own country. Often the risk is due to the fact that the persons are members of or affiliated to a prohibited terrorist organisation or that they are suspected or convicted of terrorist offences in their absence. Mr Säpo has said that the situation can be resolved by granting a diplomatic guarantee to the recipient countries, which is a promise of humane treatment. That would be a win for all parties. Swedish terror legislation is chronically neglected, so people often cannot be convicted of crimes here. If they cannot be convicted of crimes here or expelled, they must finally be released – and can continue with their atrocities here in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats realised at an early stage that this situation would become more and more common. As early as 2016, we exercised that the government should start diplomatic work on establishing guarantees, as such cases were highlighted. We also tabled a proposal to the Parliamentary Committee of the Council of Europe on the same subject, which was approved by a large majority. Given the great potential benefits, the question is why Sweden does not have such agreements in place since before. The answer, or the non-answer, that the Government delivers, makes me suspect that there are some gaps in knowledge within the Government Office, which is a little worrying. First of all, Mikael Damberg claims that it would be inappropriate for him to speak at all because the government is examining such matters. This would have been the case if the issue had been a specific matter, but the interpellation is about Sweden's relationship with another country, that is our bilateral agreements. I'm not asking how the government intends to deal with a particular case. Of course, I, too, understand that would be inappropriate. Secondly, the Government refers to the following: and each case is unique, and there is therefore no general answer to the question of diplomatic guarantees. ..................................................... This is also a misunderstanding. The UK concluded its first agreements on what is called deportation with assurances already in 2005, and has since expelled a number of people according to that model. It is recognised in the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, which also provides for certain types of rules on the form of contracts. It is clear, among other things, whether you read the judgment in the Abu Qatada case against the United Kingdom. Among other things, the Court requires that the guarantees are transparent, detailed and that there are mechanisms for monitoring and checking that the promises are actually fulfilled. Although each case is unique, the agreements between Sweden and third parties should not be unique, but should follow a clear template. I would therefore like to ask Mikael Damberg whether he is aware at all of the demands made on such agreements. Has he, for example, read the grounds for the Abu Qatada case against the United Kingdom? Does he understand that if the agreements follow such a model and that conditions for treatment and monitoring and control mechanisms are in place, this does not need to be renegotiated for each new person? Then the cases can be resolved quickly. Above all, I would like an answer to the question as to why Sweden has not drawn up such agreements in the past. Why are we starting to think about this now? The United Kingdom, as I said, already established the first agreements in 2005. That's quite a few years ago.
i-45Lo5J6LBVPEApAPrsiYjv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ludvig Aspling, for the interpellation! I stressed the role of the government for an important reason, because there will also be legal trials. Parties may also refer to what I say or not say in this House as part of the government's perhaps trying to influence or have a clear view in a case. It could then be used in court, which I think would be unfortunate – hence the limits of what I should say. I understood that the interpellier respected. Good! Let me then start with what the legislation looks like. I will return to the question. The legislation mandates the Security Service to get into the process early, have opinions on it and to use some additional tools. If expulsion is carried out under the Special Alien Control Act, and someone poses a threat to national security, there is also the possibility of notification. The Security Service may define how often this should happen. If it is feared that someone may commit a crime or contribute to a terrorist offence, there may be a notification obligation and the authority may decide whether coercive measures should be applied. These may be search warrant, body search, body inspection, secret interception, monitoring of electronic communications and postal inspection. It is a package of measures that can be taken against persons, even in cases where expulsion cannot be enforced on the basis of court orders. I am not entirely satisfied with the way the legislation works and is perceived today, because it is not clear in all respects, and it needs to be developed. I would like to inform the Riksdag that such work is taking place, and we look forward to receiving the investigator's proposal by 31 March 2020. There's a mission to review the Special Alien Control Act. It is about achieving effective, effective and transparent regulation which, at the same time, of course, is compatible with the proper protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. I look forward to an update of the legislation in the future. As far as diplomatic guarantees are concerned, individual negotiations are required. If it is possible with diplomatic guarantees, if it is considered possible, it is negotiations between states. As far as I know, there are no general diplomatic guarantees in place for this type of matter. There are no countries that sign such an agreement blindly, because in individual cases we want to be able to test these individuals and whether or not it is appropriate to make an extradition agreement with diplomatic guarantees. I understood that the question was whether we should set up any form of such a system in general and whether it should be signed with different countries. I think it is absolutely hopeless to have a general agreement of this kind with any country. That's not gonna happen. I also replied to that and felt that it was important that these issues should not be discussed too widely. It may, of course, make the establishment and maintenance of such an agreement impossible if there is a public discussion about it when the other country thinks the issue is sensitive. Hence my limited answer and thus somewhat low tone in the answer. I think it is important to be able to work seriously on these issues.
i-8d42f2169703087c-26	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is clear that the Government has been familiar with these issues and takes this seriously, and I very much appreciate that. However, when the Government highlights measures such as notification obligations and coercive measures against persons allowed to reside in Sweden, I would like to point out that they are not very meaningful when the actual act which has made a person subject to this kind of expulsion is not punishable in Sweden. You can be required to register; this means that you must register with the police at a certain time and place from time to time. It does not matter when the very reason could be that a person is involved in terrorist recruitment in a way that is not contrary to Swedish law. That person knows how to stay within the limits of the law. In this case, the obligation to notify is unfortunately quite meaningless. Diplomatic guarantees are not a legislative matter either. I have seen the comitology directives for the new bill under way. It's great that the government is working on it, but it doesn't really have anything to do with this. As regards the agreements with third countries themselves, with the beneficiary countries, it is not the case that there is a general agreement and that these people are being called off. That's not how it works. But as I understand it, the United Kingdom, for example – I take it as a bit of a forerunner because they have worked on this a lot – since it started to do so, it has been possible to build on the first agreements it had had. This is because the agreements have to be accepted by the European Court of Human Rights in the last resort. If, as it were, you have to start from scratch each time, there will be a lot of extra work. As the UK has worked, some agreements have been drawn up already in 2005 and then used as a template when moving forward. Say that Sweden would have done the same. This type of case has existed in the past – for example, we remember the case of the two Egyptians in 2001. If Sweden had worked in this way already then they would have had experience. They had had such diplomatic contacts, and they had had a template to work on. This would have gone a lot faster, I think. What is happening now, instead, is that you can have to put these people in rather long-term and expensive custody and ultimately have to set them free if this issue cannot be resolved. It undermines public confidence in the rule of law's ability to deal with this type of threat to national security. It also represents a bit of a personal tragedy for those who have been victims of terrorist crimes in their home countries. They get no redress when the suspects can run around Sweden and continue with these atrocities. I very much hope that the Government will succeed in resolving this issue in the future. I think I understand a little how he thinks, and I appreciate the work you do.
i-8d42f2169703087c-33	Mr President, I would like to Then I understand more of what the interpellier meant by his question. I can reassure the interpellant that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has excellent diplomatic contacts, not least with the United Kingdom, which has good experience of this. It is clear that in Sweden we learned the hard way from what happened after the fall in Egypt. It was not a proud part of Swedish history that it happened as it happened. This means that we are fully aware of the requirements of such agreements, what mechanisms you have to have for monitoring them and how you have to work with them. This means that if you join such a diplomatic agreement between Sweden and other countries, it is not just about that agreement. It is a long-term process with costs involved in monitoring and such things. But it is well worth it if we have a good agreement that makes it possible to execute an expulsion. So that is not where the problem arises. The problem arises as to whether other states are always interested in such a discussion and whether it is possible at all to obtain diplomatic guarantees from some of the states that may be concerned because some of those states are notoriously violating human rights. The Council of Europe can therefore question with a sound analysis whether it helps with an agreement, no matter how it is designed. It is therefore rather the individual case, the conditions that exist and the interests of the parties that will make it difficult to move forward. It is not our knowledge of how to draw up a formal agreement that is the problem in this. I would, however, like to conclude with a few words on the subject of legislation. It is clear that the obligation to notify itself is not the world's toughest mechanism, although in some sense it limits a person's existence. The Swedish Security Service will then gain even more control over individuals who are in Sweden. However, in some cases where terrorist connections are feared, the catalogue of secret coercive measures that can be used against these people is quite extensive. It is clear that if the Stockholm District Court decides that this can be used against such people, then you give the Security Service very powerful tools to follow those people. You shouldn't underestimate that. It is also the modernisation of the regulatory framework that the investigator is looking at, so I would like to say that there are mechanisms in this that are not insignificant. That is why the Security Service uses that legislation to in some cases be able to have additional powers to act against these individuals. But I share the view that if there are conditions for extradition, extradition should take place. There is no doubt that this would be desirable in many of these cases. The only question is whether it's possible.
i-8d42f2169703087c-39	Mr President, I would like to The problem that the recipient countries do not always have the will or the ability to comply with or establish such agreements is real. It's there. I also think that we should look at this a little bit from a development perspective. It is almost our job to try to explain to these countries that it is very important that they cooperate and that they somehow embrace a culture that treats people who are seen as enemies of the state in a humane way. There are cases where I believe such an agreement could succeed. It is above all in cases where there is a strong will on the part of the recipient country to take the person back because it is believed that the person has done something very serious and you want to prosecute it – often for perfectly legitimate reasons. The problem is that there may then be an even greater desire to treat the person in an unacceptable way, so I understand absolutely the problem. The very core question in the interpellation that I still have not received an answer to is, however, why Sweden has not drawn up any such agreements before. I have put the question to the Ministry of Justice and to Parliament's investigation service, and I have received a wall in answer: we can neither confirm nor deny. Let's not say anything. If you can't say anything, it's obvious that Sweden hasn't tried or succeeded with this model before, because if you are going to do that, the agreements must be transparent and public. There must be some publicity in it, and then I would have found out. So the question remains: Why has Sweden not used this tool before?
i-8d42f2169703087c-45	Mr President, I would like to What I'm trying to say is that we treat each individual case individually and make assessments based on it. Furthermore, we are trying not to have too public a discussion on these issues, because it may actually make it more difficult for us to reach agreements or agreements with different countries. Therefore, the Riksdag has decided on a regime whereby the Government submits a letter to the Riksdag annually with reports on the application of the law and the development of international terrorism. I think that's a wise way to work. But I can guarantee that we have good knowledge of how other countries have worked with diplomatic guarantees and what legal requirements the Council of Europe and others impose on this. We are well aware of that.
i-8d42f2169703087c-46	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me how many studies on gender dysphoria have begun and what the trend is and how many have started treatment as a result of the diagnosis of gender dysphoria and how many are currently under treatment as a result of this. Furthermore, Mikael Oscarsson has asked questions about those who repent and wonder how many people have started to treat sex dysphoria but then repented before or after the treatment, as well as if I agree with Smer, the National Medical Ethics Council, that the health care system can too little about the treatment. Mikael Oscarsson also wonders if the government will commission the Swedish Medical Products Agency to analyse and research the use of push-on and sex-contracing drugs that take place off-label. Mikael Oscarsson also wonders if the government will commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to update its knowledge support Good care for children and young people with gender dysphoria. Another question concerns how many minor children the municipalities of the country have decided that sex-correcting treatment may be initiated even though the parents do not agree and how many minors the municipalities of the country have decided on forced treatment according to LVU when parents or guardians opposed investigation or treatment due to the diagnosis of sexual dysphoria. Finally, Mikael Oscarsson asks if the government will present a legislative proposal in the Riksdag in accordance with its legislative proposal that children under the age of 12 should be able to change their legal gender and that children under the age of 15 should be able to undergo surgical procedures in the genitals without the parents' consent and without the parents being given insight or information about the measures. I thank you for the questions and will try to answer them. With regard to statistical issues, however, I would like to point out that our expert authorities can provide more precise answers. According to a new compilation of the Patient Register of the National Board of Health and Welfare, the diagnosis of gender dysphoria has increased during the period 1998–2015. In 2005, approximately 1 out of 100,000 people were diagnosed for the first time. In 2015, it was about 8 out of 100,000. In 2016, approximately 1,200 people in the country applied for care for gender dysphoria. Gender-confirming medical treatment in gender dysphoria has been shown in several foreign and Swedish studies to reduce gender dysphoria and improve mental health. Between 1960 and 2010, 15 people in Sweden repented. As regards the assignments to the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare in connection with Smer's letter, I can inform you that, in accordance with the letter, we have commissioned SBU to carry out a systematic knowledge overview of the scientific basis for investigating the diagnosis and treatment of children and young people with gender dysphoria. If there's any further assignments, I'll have to get back to that. No official statistics are available on how many social welfare boards have decided that a child may start sex-correcting treatment even though the parents are not in agreement. I would like to point out that decisions concerning children should be based on the best interests of the child. On 30 August 2018, the Government made a decision on a Council of Law referral containing proposals for new legislation. However, the Law Council rejected the Government's proposal and expressed serious criticism. The criticism will be taken into account in the further preparation. The Government will therefore obtain the necessary documentation to produce a revised legislative proposal. It is important that people with gender dysphoria receive the right support and treatment, which is the focus of my work on this issue.
i-8d42f2169703087c-56	Mr President, I would like to This is a subject that engages me, and that is why I have asked so many questions. I read the article that the government presented a year ago about lowering the age limit for when a child without even knowing it should be able to operate in the genital area and redo his or her sex from 18 to 15 years of age. Then, six months ago, the Mission Review programme came, and I thought, Mr President, that I must understand. I normally work with defence issues, but as a fellow human being with the privilege of being here in Parliament and as a parent, I feel worried, in depth. Because there are so many people involved, and they are children and young people. The precautionary principle must then apply. It was something I learned early when I came here to Parliament 21 years ago. If we don't know, we'll have to wait. And this absolutely must apply when it comes to our children. We must first look at the facts. In 2001, 12 persons up to 25 years of age were diagnosed with sex dysphoria. Yesterday the figure for 2018 came from the National Board of Health and Welfare, and in the same age group there were 1,859 people. So it has increased 155 times, or 15 50 0 percent. First of all, in his reply, the Minister for Social Affairs says that the expert authorities can give more precise answers. I'm sorry to say that, but there are no such things. I turned with exactly the same questions to Parliament's investigation service. They were first positive and said that they could get answers through contact with the National Board of Health and Welfare, but this basic information is not available. Therefore, I have to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: where does this come from? What was the basis a year ago? I saw yesterday that there will be a new investigation, but what was the basis? I think many people in this House are wondering this. I also believe that many, even among the Swedish people, listened to the Saturday interview a month ago. The Minister for Gender Equality, who, incidentally, will be here shortly for the next interpellation debate, said that the government would move on with this. She argued perfectly for a long time on the radio for us to lower the age limit from 18 to 15 years. What is really the situation on these important issues? The Minister also says that in several foreign and Swedish studies, gender-confirming medical treatment in genital dysphoria has been shown to reduce gender dysphoria. Unfortunately, in the case of children and young people, there is no research at all to show this. On the contrary, it has emerged that there are problems and side effects. For example, it has been shown that the risk of suicide is 19 times higher after sex-correcting treatment, according to a study carried out on all those diagnosed with sex dysphoria in Sweden between 1973 and 2003. Problems and side effects have also been identified such as sterility, osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease, various cancers, increased mental illness and so on. How can children take responsibility for this?
i-8d42f2169703087c-65	Mr President, I would like to I honestly don't know which end to begin. Mikael Oscarsson has submitted an interpellation that is very much about statistics, where I experience a genuine desire to know more. But I do not think there is a lack of research. I wonder what research Mikael Oscarsson is leaning against, who claims that there is no evidence whatsoever that there are advantages and upsides for someone with sex dysphoria who is going through sex-correcting treatment or otherwise treated for their gender dysphoria, but rather a series of back pages, which were read out here. There is a reason why the issue has begun to be discussed. It is about the fact that there is a group – it is not large – children, young people and of course also adults who during puberty and the time when you become an adult suffer from sex dysphoria, which is a medical designation and assessment. Whether someone has a diagnosis of gender dysphoria or not is not something that we should discuss here in the Swedish parliament. We must leave this to the profession, just as we are not discussing here whether someone has one or another diagnosis of cancer or how best to meet a person with high blood pressure. The profession does. We have authorities to provide the profession with guidelines. I concluded my interpellation response by clearly describing that we should focus on the right support and treatment. Of course, we should take the criticism very seriously. No one should be mistreated, whether it's gender dysphoria or something else. Now this interpellation came in a situation where we are working at the same time. It sometimes happens, and you can say that it will be successful. In this case, it was just in the joint, so I was unable to write in the interpellation response about the assignments that were given. I will report them in two lines here. People should be given the care they need. Nevertheless, I would say that for quite a few of us gender dysphoria is a relatively new phenomenon. It is a diagnosis with which we have been acquainted relatively recently. When I grew up, the stigma of transgender and sexual dysphoria was so much greater than it is today, although of course it still exists. It wasn't something that was talked about. Our responsibility as a society is to ensure that people who have sex dysphoria are really listened to and respected and that they receive the care that the care deems necessary. Therefore, we are making efforts to get a better and more deepened knowledge base that has bearing both on the questions asked by Mikael Oscarsson and on the criticism given by the Swedish Law Council. Yesterday, the National Board of Health and Welfare was tasked with analysing and assessing whether the proposed age limit of 15 years to – I would like to emphasise – in cases where there are exceptional reasons to have a surgical intervention in the genitals is an appropriate age or whether another age limit should apply. The Government also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to update the Authority's knowledge support Good care for children and young people with gender dysphoria. The implementation of the mandate shall take into account both new knowledge and the experience accumulated in the expanding clinical activities of recent years. It is of particular importance that the Agency in this work takes advantage of the experience that healthcare applicants and their relatives have of access to healthcare and how investigation, care and follow-up are conducted. The National Board of Health and Welfare shall coordinate the mission with its ongoing mission to disseminate knowledge support on care and treatment in gender dysphoria to healthcare professionals and other stakeholders. They are also tasked with reviewing and updating the message sheet Children under the age of 18 looking for healthcare. This will be implemented in 2020.
i-8d42f2169703087c-74	Mr President, I would like to In fact, all well-reputed research shows that there is absolutely no scientific support for this type of treatment in the case of children. It is also very flawed when it comes to adults, especially young adults. In the past I have looked carefully at this and talked to many of the experts we have in Sweden. I've been listening to parents, too. I would also like to call on the Minister for Social Affairs to talk to his parents. There were 17 parents who two weeks ago signed the DN Debate and expressed their concern. They are parents who have children in the growing group who suddenly express a strong anxiety and feeling of being wrong in their teens. They say that the one-sided focus of care on hormones and surgery means that other things are prioritised down. They say, "We demand care and care for the suffering of our children – not a long queue for surgical and medical experiments. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Of course, there are adults and children who have these problems, and we have to deal with them. We can agree that this is a matter for the profession. That's why I'm a little surprised at what the government says. I would like answers: where does the demand for the change proposed in the proposal come from and which is therefore the background to the legislative referral? Who drove the age limit to be reduced from 18 years to 15 years, and where did this come from? In the vast majority of cases, it's about girls. It's that group that's increasing. In early childhood, the children represented by these parents have not expressed doubts about their gender identity, but suddenly. They have other problems and diagnoses such as anxiety, trauma, depression and eating disorders. Others have Asperger syndrome. One thing that also emerges is that they have been very active in different online communities with strong influence. Parents are hesitant about these procedures, which are irreversible. If you do these procedures, you have to live with it for the rest of your life, just as emerged in Mission Review. As a girl, you can live with a beard and a dark voice for the rest of your life, and if you do it again, you can never get it back. This is exactly what parents are hesitant about. Why, then, does health care come directly with confirmation rather than looking at other ways? When it comes to other types of mental problems, you try to see how you can solve them or help, but here you are directly confirmed. Here in Stockholm you can directly come to KID. In several cases it has been shown that it is enough six months to get started with the treatment to stop puberty, and then you go in and give preparations. This is, of course, a lifelong matter. This is also what Hanne Kjöller mentioned in DN: Who takes responsibility for a 15-year-old with mental problems becoming sterile? That's what happens when you eat these preparations.
i-8d42f2169703087c-81	Mr President, I would like to I think that Mikael Oscarsson could devote the next post to telling us who will decide whether or not to have sex-correcting treatment. As Minister of Social Affairs, I'm not going to decide it, but I think the profession should do it. We want the National Board of Health and Welfare to produce better documentation. Now we have asked for a review if it is 15 years to apply. Of course, there are very few people in that target group. It hasn't been possible. Does the profession consider that such an opportunity is needed when nothing else can help an individual with sex dysphoria? I have also read the debate to which Mikael Oscarsson refers and, of course, I am familiar with the parents who signed it. I keep it in the back of my head when I prepare these bases and so on as well as of course when we make decisions in the future. But I don't think you should describe it as someone who feels lost visiting the care and within six months has almost changed gender. I do not think we should simplify the discussion. This is incredibly complicated. It is certainly not simple. However, if, regardless of age, one considers why not only parents are allowed to decide, I would like to draw a parallel with parents who, for religious reasons, may deny their child a blood transfusion. If the care considers that this could threaten the child's life, there is a system for how the care should be able to deal with this. I think this is a relevant comparison. The child or young person may not even be able to live. Suicide is over-represented in this target group. But I want to take up the second mission. We take this very seriously. It should not be made either simple or hasty. There must be a knowledge base for healthcare. The National Board of Health and Welfare will therefore review whether the age limit of 15 years is the right one in order for it to be possible to start treatment, and you should update the knowledge base and the communication sheet. The second assignment is for two investigators to analyse and take into account the views expressed by the Swedish Law Council in its opinion on the referral soon a year ago, 23 October 2018. The Council's opinion was about the legal effect of a change in gender, because the proposal that was being prepared was not only about sex-correcting treatment and the age limit, but also about legal sex – I just want to emphasise that there are differences in this with regard to what is irreversible – the link with the ECHR and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as the proposal to change population records. In particular, they will analyse the legal impact of a decision to change the gender shown in the population register for both society and the individual, to identify constitutions where a person's gender status may have a legal impact – I know that this goes a little beyond the issue, but it certainly has to do with the legislative referral that was planned – and to investigate the consequences of the proposals made in the legislative proposal for these and other parts of the legal system, including criminal law. What happens, for example, if a person changes sex and thus gets a new identity? They shall assist the investigators assigned to assist the Ministry in the balancing of interests for a period of 15 years, whether or not self-determination is the proposal to be applied. They shall also pay particular attention to how the proposals relate to the European Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is also a question of whether the social welfare board should be able to decide on an application for a change of gender if one of the guardians does not agree. The need to introduce such a provision shall be identified. I would like to say that we are now making incredibly important efforts to respond to the criticisms and views of the Council of Law. Let's do it in public. We make it very transparent. We will continue the discussion and discussion on this. But I think it is important that we really see that it is about the best possible care that stands for our eyes.
i-8d42f2169703087c-91	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's the last thing that drives me. But it is very important to see that 75 percent of these have another psychiatric problem. Nevertheless, it has gone from 12 patients in 2001 to 1,859 last year. These are young girls we're talking about. In Sweden you have to wait until you are 18 years old before you can take a driving licence. If you're going to buy alcohol, you're going to have to wait until you're 20. If you're going to sterilize, you're going to have to wait until you're 25. The 25-year limit is set, Mr President, because it is only then that the human brain is fully developed – it is about the lobe up there. That's when you can see the consequences. Then it is very strange that the government has come up with this proposal. Only a month ago, your government colleague argued that we should lower from 18 years to 15 years. It's very troubling. Several experts say that for several of these children it is like abuse. I think we need to take a break for children and young people until we know more, so that we get evidence. That is what is so important: that we have healthcare based on research and evidence. The challenge, investigation and care must be based on research and proven experience. That's what's missing. It would be one thing if this were something that could then be changed back, but it is not. I'm a parent. I've got kids in my teens. For me, it is important to see that we cannot be about to introduce legislation that lowers the age limit. That would be completely wrong.
i-8d42f2169703087c-95	Mr President, I would like to I note that, in conclusion, Mikael Oscarsson is not so interested in what proposals will be made, what the state of knowledge exists, what the National Board of Health and Welfare will come up with and what the investigators will propose, but the decision has already been made by Mikael Oscarsson. For me and the government, it is about ensuring that there is care for the person who needs care, no matter what care it is. If there are shortcomings in our system that may cause young people to kill themselves – they feel so bad, and there is a diagnosed gender dysphoria – I cannot stand in Parliament's Chamber and talk about how the care should treat it. But I am extremely concerned that we should have sufficient knowledge. This is precisely why the National Board of Health and Welfare has been given a large assignment where they will review the age at which the limit should reasonably be set. This does not mean, Mikael Oscarsson or anyone else who listens, that you casually as a 15-year-old contact the care and say: I want to change sex. And then you get to work. I would really like to emphasise that this is not how it is done. And should it ever happen, I would like to say that this is not, of course, the way it should be done. But let's say that someone has this diagnosis and feels so bad that it is assessed within the healthcare system that this is the only care available. Should we then deny that care because we see before us that everyone does not want to change sex? No, we don't all want that. It's not a question of wanting. This is a diagnosis where an assessment is made in healthcare. It should be based on the best possible knowledge and evidence. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's documentation will be incredibly important to the government. I would also like to emphasise that in the Council of Law referral which received a lot of criticism and which we are now working on, it is not just a question of sex correction. It is also a question of legal sex. For many people who feel that they are in the wrong body, it can also be a legal change of gender, i.e. that you simply have to change gender in folk records and in other contexts. It's another part of the investigation. We will see which parts we will proceed with and in what way.
i-8d42f2169703087c-99	Mr President, I would like to Christer Nylander has asked me when the government intends to return to Parliament in connection with the investigation Review of state support for religious communities and what measures I intend to take to ensure that different views on life are treated neutrally by the state when allocating support to religious communities. Today's legislation dates from the turn of the millennium, and it is based on a practice that has existed in Sweden since the 1970s. The investigation, led by the special investigator Ulf Bjereld, was the first major review of the policy area. Now that we are reviewing support for the religions in essence, it is natural for many different opinions to emerge. This has been clearly seen in the referrals received. An important issue dealt with in the report relates precisely to the issue raised by Mr Nylander, namely who is to receive the aid. The investigation opens up the possibility of expanding the target group to include secular life-seeking organisations, but believes that the issue should be further investigated. For me, it is important that we do not delay the process of returning to Parliament on the issue of democratic conditions for state subsidies. This particular issue is something that Parliament has raised on several occasions. For me and the government, it is a key principle that when state grants are awarded to religious communities and other organisations, they should go to activities that are compatible with fundamental democratic principles as expressed, among other things, in the form of government. In the forthcoming legislative work, several difficult trade-offs need to be made. For me, it is important that we can find a proposal that has the broadest possible support in Parliament.
i-8d42f2169703087c-104	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I share the view that it is important for us to have a democratic condition in place with regard to the state contribution to civil society. It is part of the January agreement between the government and the Liberals and the Center Party. I think it's important that we get it in place. I think that's good. However, I do not see that it would stand in the way of the part I am talking about in my interpellation, which is another issue. The state makes contributions to civil society – sport, culture, religious communities and other things. That makes sense to me. In this debate, the question is about the part of the contributions that goes just to the religious communities. I think the fundamental question can be asked: why is the state providing subsidies for these? Is it given because the religions are an important part of civil society? Yeah, that could be it. But then it would also be possible to imagine that they would not have a special contribution for this, but that it would instead be part of a larger pot of support for civil society. They are reasonably an important part of civil society. One can imagine that that part is particularly important, and that is an argument for this. But there must be something else, Mr President. Therefore, I think we should dig further and ask ourselves: Why is it so important that the religions receive their own pot, their own support? The sports movement receives special support because sport contributes something special to civil society. Similarly, there must be an argument for the religions to have a particular pot: that they contribute to something special in civil society. I can imagine that there is such a reason. It must be based on the fact that man is essentially a meaning-seeking being. We seek contexts and patterns, and we try to create a picture of our own role in the great story, if there is a great story and if we believe in that story. One might imagine that the state believes that special support is needed for organizations that help people to find their place, understand their meaning, understand the great meaning and see patterns and their mission in life. But if that is the reason why there is special support precisely for religions, why do certain stories, explanations and patterns receive a kind of treatment, while other organizations that represent a different pattern and a different outlook on life get a different assessment? Why do some denominations that create a sentence that includes a god receive special support while those who have a search for meaning that does not include a god do not receive support? I find it difficult to see this logic, for if there is a particular reason to support religious communities, it must be a reason that does not discriminate against those who do not include a god or a religious confession in their search for opinion. Sweden has no state religion. Sweden should not have a state religion. The support is more general than trying to get people to interpret something in themselves. Rather, it is a support for trying to find meaning in life, to see yourself in the big picture and to find support in a view of life and in that way certainly feel better. This is what my interpellation is about: Why should the state give special support to those who include a religious view but do not support those who include a secular concept of life? For me, the only reasonable conclusion is that support for religions should go to religions whether they include a god or not. I therefore wonder what arguments the Government sees in order to have a system that we have today, in which different outlooks on life are treated differently. What arguments are there for a system whereby religious views of life are treated differently from non-religious beliefs?
i-8d42f2169703087c-113	Mr President, I would like to Although we live in a society commonly called the world's most secular, religion and faith mean a lot to many people. As Christer Nylander pointed out, I fully share the fact that we have support from the state that is distributed to religious communities. There's a long story behind this. This is a system that we have had since the 1970s, and basically it is about providing the conditions for all people who believe or who are part of a religious community in Sweden today to actually exercise their faith. We must also remember that the system we have is based on a situation where the Church of Sweden had a distinct position, and in this way the conditions between different religions would be levelled out. This is the background and also one of the reasons why we are currently carrying out this review. It is my absolute belief that religions provide added value in society and that freedom of religion is a human right, that is, a cornerstone of Swedish democracy. There, this support has a role to play. What we should remember is that the state allocates 14 billion a year to civil society. A vibrant and prosperous civil society is something that I and the government think is extremely important and fundamental. Civil society consists of many different things such as folk education, youth organisation and the sports movement, and we have different kinds of support systems designed for our multifaceted civil society. I would not say that we are treating religions differently simply because there is a special system of subsidies for religious communities. As I said, there were many examples of targeted contributions for different groups of civil society actors, where I can also mention support for women's organisations and party support. Having said that, the investigation is discussing precisely the issue of non-life-seeking support and notes that it should not conflict with the prohibition of discrimination in Chapter 14 of the ECHR, since the situation of secular communities and other types of organisations is not entirely comparable. Sweden is far from the only country that has this system – Finland, Slovakia and Italy have it too. Then there are other countries that have moved to a more life-seeking-neutral system. This is a complex issue, I would say. If a life-seeking system is to be introduced, it must be ensured that clear criteria are created for this, as there are other organisations that are value-based or idea-based. That's where you have to find a line. As I said in my opening speech, there is great pressure from Parliament that we should come back on the issue of democracy conditions. The investigation therefore states that if a life-seeking-neutral system is to be pursued, it must be further investigated. That is not something we can take a stand on here and now.
i-8d42f2169703087c-121	Mr President, I would like to We agree on quite a number of points: on the one hand, that civil society is important and, on the other hand, that it is reasonable for that reason that there is special state aid to civil society. We agree that civil society can be divided into different parts that have a bit of different tasks, and I think we agree that views on life have a particular dimension in helping people to find their part in the great story or find their patterns. What we do not agree on is whether to move here and now, as soon as possible, to a system where different outlooks on life are equated so that secular outlooks on life are treated in the same way as religious outlooks on life. Mr President, I would like to When the state grants, there must be clear and transparent principles. I think that the state should be life-seeking neutral and not positively treat some differently than others. There should be equality; no matter who it is, you should be treated equally. To investigate the support for the religions, the government has set up this investigation, which I have read with great interest. I note that there are many interesting elements in what the parties behind the January agreement have reason to move forward urgently, such as democracy conditions, to ensure that those who receive support from the state also uphold fundamental human rights and democracy. The inquiry came in May 2018, and the consultation round has been completed. It looks at this very thing with secular outlooks on life and points out that there are arguments for making legislation neutral in terms of view of life views. The investigator also notes in a debate article that the report states that the State is not obliged to provide support, but that if it does, it should be neutral between different communities. Quite a bit in the back of the investigation, and now I quote, Mr President, that from an equality perspective, it is also possible to argue that support should also provide the conditions for people who have a secular outlook on life to exercise and express such conviction in union with others. The investigation then mentions a number of countries that are quite similar to Sweden and that have moved to a system that does not discriminate against certain life views compared to other life views. Today, support for religious communities is designed so that life views that do not include a belief in a god or other supernatural power do not share in the support. The investigation notes that this may need to be reviewed and that there is reason to do so. I take the view that the investigator in this way tells us politicians that this is now a political issue and now politicians are going to have to deal with it further. I think we should handle it further. They are not proposing a fundamental change, but I see that they also signal that politicians should make the decision. Mr President, I would like to Does the Government believe that it is reasonable for us, from the political point of view, to take this line further?
i-8d42f2169703087c-131	Mr President, I would like to I do not want to go in and interpret what the investigator is referring to more than what is actually in the investigation. What it states is that it could be possible to make this contribution life-seeking neutral. Some countries have chosen to do so, while some countries have chosen to keep it as it is. In any case, it is an issue that needs further investigation, which would mean that several key concepts would have to be defined. A distinction would also have to be made with other value-based civil society organisations. In this, of course, the requirements for the preparation of the government form apply, which means that we cannot freely amend the investigation proposals without having to refer them first. My position and that of the government is that, in such a case, an independent investigator would first have to investigate the matter and then make a proposal which could be referred in the usual order. I am not prepared to delay the process of democratic conditions to the faiths for such an investigation. With regard to what an investigator says or does not say in a debate article, I believe that the author intended that one of the aims of doing this review at all is also to level the conditions between the religions. Earlier in Sweden there has been a system where Christian communities, and above all the Church of Sweden, have had a special position in the writings and in the law that regulates support for religious communities. It is also something that we can deal with as we move on with this investigation. The investigation does not oppose the change to a life-seeking neutral support, but once again notes that the issue needs to be further investigated. I can only conclude by saying that I share Christer Nylander's ambition that all people, whether they believe in a god or have a different view, must have the opportunity to exercise this in a reasonable manner. I note once again that we in the state are giving solid support to civil society, which is aimed at meeting the needs of different groups within civil society. Having said that, my position is that we need to move forward on democracy conditions quickly, and I do not want to delay that process.
i-8d42f2169703087c-138	Mr President, I would like to I note a number of things, including the fact that the Government considers it reasonable that there should be support. I also note that the Government does not think that there should be unnecessary discrimination against some compared to others. I agree with the Government that it is important that the process of democracy conditions is now moving forward quickly. However, I can see that there is something other than a matter of time and never, that is, an area where one can say either a short time or a near-never. Somewhere in that pendulum, I would like to hear the Government say that this is a matter that can be prepared rather quickly on the basis of the investigation that exists. It is clear that it is unreasonable in 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and so on to have a system in which the state is not equal in its treatment of those who have a secular and those who have a non-secular belief or outlook on life. As I am in my most optimistic and positive mood today, Mr President, I would like to say the following: if, in her last speech, the Government says nothing other than what she said in the interpellation response and the following debate, I consider that there is openness on the part of the Government to continue discussing how to change support to religious communities so that it also includes those who are secular and thus do not discriminate against any views compared to others.
i-8d42f2169703087c-141	Mr President, I would like to We have a vibrant, prosperous and multifaceted civil society, and I would like to thank Christer Nylander for the opportunity to emphasise this in this House. Religion means a lot to many in our society, and that is good. There is a value in that we have a support system for religious communities in the same way that we have a support system for other parts of civil society – for peoples' education, young people's organisation, the sports movement, the women's movement and political parties. This should provide the conditions for a living civil society. That is our purpose, and it is an important part of a strong democratic society – which we want. There is a great demand from the Riksdag, and I and the Government have a high ambition to return as quickly as possible with the results of the investigation that has highlighted various aspects of support to religious communities. It is precisely there that the conditions of democracy and that the grants and contributions that the state grants to civil society are not to go to religious communities and organisations that violate fundamental values have been addressed. My firm aim is that we should return to the rich day with this as soon as possible. There are other issues that are also raised, including the issue of life-seeking-neutral support. I want to make it clear that the process we are currently in, where we are going to prepare the investigation that has actually been carried out and come up with a proposal for it as soon as possible, is my focus – not to set up other investigations, as the investigation states needs to be done in order for us to take further steps in this.
i-8d42f2169703087c-145	Mr President, I would like to Lorena Delgado Varas has asked Minister Linde whether she intends to work towards the use of trade agreements as a political instrument and calls on Brazil to comply with its climate commitments and otherwise reject the Mercosur Agreement. Furthermore, Lorena Delgado Varas has asked Minister Linde if she intends to work towards the use of EU trade agreements to promote climate change and human rights, in particular workers' rights, women's rights and indigenous rights. Lorena Delgado Varas has also asked Minister Linde whether she intends to continue to advocate signing trade agreements with countries that do not comply with the Paris Agreement. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The government is very concerned about the forest fires in the Amazon. The fires must be extinguished as quickly as possible. We expect Brazil to take responsibility and act with the force required by the situation to protect the rainforest and counter climate change in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Brazil has a unique natural resource in the Amazon rain forest – but also a responsibility to protect it. Last summer, an EU-Mercosur agreement in principle was reached on an association agreement which improves the conditions for intra-regional trade. The EU will be the first in the world to conclude trade agreements with Mercosur, which means that Swedish export companies will have favourable access to a market with more than 270 million consumers. It is about the world's fifth largest economy outside the EU. The agreement also provides for Swedish exports of environmentally- and climate-smart products that can contribute to solutions to climate challenges. The agreement is also of political and strategic importance as it sends an important signal to the rest of the world that international cooperation is the way forward, not protectionism and new barriers to trade. In this context, EU trade policy can be an important tool for promoting sustainable development in the world. Sweden will promote more deep and broad free trade agreements between the EU and third parties and that they take environmental and sustainability into account. Such new FTAs shall only be concluded with countries that have ratified the Paris Agreement. Among the EU's requirements to proceed with the MERCOSUR agreement was for all parties to commit themselves to respect and effectively implement the Paris Agreement. Brazil has ratified the Paris Agreement and has thereby undertaken to reduce its climate emissions, prevent illegal logging and reforest the Amazon. The ratification process is now under way. If Brazil does not take its climate targets seriously, it will have an impact on the ratification of the agreement. Brazil's commitments in the Paris Agreement include combating illegal deforestation in the Amazon and reforestation of 12 million hectares of forest, which is an area larger than the land mass of Denmark, the Netherlands and Switzerland combined. Through the Mercosur Agreement, we can also work through regular dialogue to influence the rest of Mercosur's climate and environmental policies. To oppose the Mercosur Agreement means allowing trade between us to continue in accordance with the rules in force today, without binding environmental and climate rules. The MERCOSUR Agreement contains a specific chapter on trade aspects of sustainable development. There is also a specific provision on trade and sustainable forestry. This provision promotes cooperation between the Parties in the conservation, protection and management of forests, trade and consumption of timber and timber products of sustainable origin. The Parties also undertake to combat illegal logging and related trade. Sweden has been a driving force in the EU's trade agreements to include protection of workers' rights. In addition to wordings on climate and environmental protection, the sustainability chapter includes provisions on labour law and requirements for ratification and implementation of ILO core conventions. In other words, demands are made that the parties comply with their commitments within the framework of the ILO. As far as women's rights are concerned, the Government is actively committed to trade policy contributing to strengthening women's conditions and contributing to gender equality. This summer, the government launched a feminist trade policy, in which trade agreements play an important role. The agreement with Mercosur also provides for cooperation through political dialogue to promote respect for human rights, including the enjoyment of human rights by indigenous peoples.
i-8d42f2169703087c-154	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the answer from the Government. When I asked the interpellation, another minister was responsible. Democracy and human rights are the basis for working for the climate. If democracy and human rights are not respected, it is very difficult to get countries to respect the climate issue and the needs in that area. To achieve the global goals, the EU's trade agreements need to be changed. Brazil has moved from military dictatorship to democracy and on to pseudo-democracy. Bolsonaro is not a president elected by a democratic history. Instead, history has been to depose Dilma Rousseff through conspiracy and block Lula through false accusations and an absurd trial process. It is the so-called democratic basis on which the Bolsonaros government rests, and there is a reason why it rests on that basis. It's called financial interests. Bolsonaro will take no account of anything but the over-exploitation of the Amazon unless he sees that economic interests are threatened. When the trade agreement does not have sufficient strong and clear incentives for climate, environment and human rights, it becomes very easy for the power of Brazil to open up to the grosser destruction of the Amazon. The trade agreements created in the EU are toothless in the face of dictatorships and pseudo-democrats; we have several examples of that. Mr President, I would like to The Government believes that EU trade policy can be an important tool for promoting sustainable development in the world. Then I wonder if the Government believes that agreements should be concluded with political leaders who call for destruction. Mr President, I would like to The government expects Brazil to take responsibility for the situation. But can governments expect this from a president who actively engages in Amazon deforestation, who wages a war against the indigenous peoples and against the small farmers, who threatened to close down the Ministry of the Environment and threatened to tear up the Paris Agreement?
i-8d42f2169703087c-160	Mr President, I would like to Lorena Delgado Varas is right that EU trade policy is a tool and that we consider it a tool for influencing other countries to contribute to sustainable development in the world and to combating climate change. We will use the agreements to ensure that our trading partners, for example, respect and implement the Paris Agreement. The willingness to reach an agreement with the EU was partly the reason why Brazil chose not to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, and in this way the EU's trade policy has already had an effect. Abandoning the Mercosur Agreement would reduce Brazil's incentive to stick to the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement becomes a natural part of the EU-Mercosur trade relationship, and we thus have a platform to discuss and monitor how the Paris Agreement is implemented nationally. The Mercosur countries are keen on the agreement with the EU, and this allows us to put pressure on it. Let me give another example of how the MERCOSUR agreement gives us opportunities for influence that we would not otherwise have: Of EU beef imports, 40%, or 140 000 tonnes, come from Brazil. However, imports from Brazil account for less than 2% of the EU's total annual beef consumption of 8 million tonnes, most of which is produced in the EU. These 140 000 tonnes represent only 1.4 % of Brazil's total production. A trade embargo on Brazilian beef would hardly have a major impact. Brazil would only sell more to other countries, which have less ambitious environmental policies than the EU's and whose trade agreements do not have the same climate requirements as the EU's. However, the Mercosur Agreement gives us an opportunity to make demands and to influence Brazilian production and the Brazilian climate targets. Without the agreement, we will not have this opportunity to influence the sustainability of Brazilian products. As regards food safety, the EU's import ban on meat produced with hormones and growth promoters as well as the limit values in meat that has been set for antibiotics continue to apply. In the environmental field, the focus is on issues such as sustainable fishing, forestry and biodiversity. The agreement encourages the implementation of international environmental agreements and cooperation in areas such as chemical use, forestry and fisheries. Furthermore, a Civil Society Forum is part of the institutional framework for the agreement, enabling civil society organisations in the environmental field, for example, to engage in dialogue with the government. The implementation of a free trade agreement also opens doors for concrete activities related to sustainability issues, for example with companies and industry organisations. The presence of Swedish and European companies in Brazil also enables us to work together with the business community to increase the impact on sustainability issues and sustainable business.
i-8d42f2169703087c-170	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I can still see very clear priorities when talking about trade agreements. The original answer mentioned, among other things, that it opens up a market of 270 million consumers and that it opens up to the fifth largest economy outside the EU. It is often said that trade is the answer to international cooperation, and it has been decided not to conclude agreements with countries that have not ratified the Paris Agreement. But the problem is not; the problem is that the Paris Agreement is not binding. In addition, we miss the fact that the agreement means that we will not be able to reduce the import of many goods from Brazil. Anyone who understands what forest fires mean and what is the basis of forest fires sees many land areas that have been protected turning into agricultural and pasture land after the fires have passed. In principle, it could be said that the Mercosur Agreement in its current form is an incentive to continue expanding the fires in the Amazon. It can also be said that, on paper, it means creating a trade agreement that strengthens environmental, climate and human rights issues, legitimising a climate-denial government like Bolsonaros. For me, it is a fundamental problem that not all requirements are binding. In the case of a civil society forum, the situation in Brazil today is seriously undermined. It is not a democratic society. Social leaders today are being hunted and murdered in Brazil. Indigenous activists are also being hunted and murdered. I do not really understand where this civil society forum should take place. The presence of European companies is also questionable. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, for example, we visited China, and we listened to many Swedish companies that have part of their production in China. It cannot be seen that our presence has affected democracy in China. On the contrary – social protocols against people and against companies in China today. The presence of European companies does not automatically provide a better basis for democracy and human rights in Brazil.
i-8d42f2169703087c-180	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned earlier some examples of the impact we see that accession to the Mercosur Agreement can have on the environment. Let me also focus a little on human rights, which is an extremely important area. Gender equality is guaranteed its own article in the EU-Mercosur Association Agreement. The rights of women and girls will also be a central and natural part of the political dialogue between the EU and Mercosur on human rights. My representative as Minister for Foreign Trade, Ann Linde, launched a feminist trade policy in August this year, which the government also intends to address within the EU. Feminist trade policy will initially focus on work in six areas: trade agreements, international standardisation, the EU's internal market, promotion work, trade-related development cooperation – Aid for Trade – and statistics. There are several examples where the aforementioned sustainability chapter of the EU's FTA has had a concrete impact. Through the sustainability chapter of the Free Trade Agreement with South Korea, the EU acted to implement the ILO Convention against Discrimination. Vietnam acceded to the ILO Convention on the right to collective bargaining in part in order to conclude free trade negotiations with the EU. Sweden has in particular worked for high labour law requirements in the Mercosur Agreement. The agreement with Mercosur provides for cooperation through political dialogue to promote respect for human rights, including the enjoyment of human rights by indigenous peoples. The EU adopted Council conclusions on indigenous peoples in May 2017. These reaffirm, among other things, the EU's support for the 2007 UN Declaration on Indigenous Rights, which was recognised at its tenth anniversary. It also stated that special priority needs to be given to combating discrimination against indigenous peoples and threats and violence against indigenous peoples and to the defence of human rights. In addition, further dialogue and consultation with indigenous peoples at all levels of EU cooperation is needed. The EU's approach to human rights as a whole and indigenous rights will be reflected in the human rights dialogue with Mercosur. Sweden also pays attention to indigenous peoples' rights in several international fora, such as the Human Rights Council and the UN's third committee. Generally speaking, Sweden cooperates in Nordic law, and joint Nordic speeches are held.
i-8d42f2169703087c-186	Mr President and Mr Hallberg. We, the Left Party, believe that we can act here and now against Bolsonaros's climate-denial policy. We can freeze the negotiations on the Mercosur Agreement and enter the Paris Agreement – but then it should be binding – and demand that the deforestation of the Amazon be stopped. I believe that these are the first steps we need to take towards Brazil. I would also like to highlight what trade agreements generally lack. The trade agreements are based on an undemocratic foundation. When the EU develops trade agreements, large, powerful stakeholder organisations, venture capitalists, transnational companies and financial companies are given the power to design them. Those who are not allowed to participate in the large scale that they have previously been involved in shaping these trade agreements are the groups that are actually the basis for the functioning of these trade agreements. It is groups such as unions, small farmers, indigenous peoples and organisations that work for women's rights and LGBTQ – simply for human rights. It is the perspective of these organisations that we need when we conclude agreements with countries such as Brazil, where social leaders are murdered, people are expelled from their communities and activists are threatened and murdered, such as Marielle Franco, socialist LGBT politicians who were murdered in cold blood. Developing trade agreements that favour big industry and extractivism, which create an unequal economic playing field, is not a feminist trade policy. Today, a week's protests and actions, a global climate strike, are starting. I call on the government to listen to these voices, to listen to the young people. They're our future.
i-8d42f2169703087c-191	Mr President, I would like to The interpellant has asked me whether I intend to continue in favour of signing trade agreements with countries that do not comply with the Paris Agreement. The government has never advocated this. On the contrary, I have today explained the extent to which climate policy and the Paris Agreement have been integrated into the Mercosur Agreement and into trade relations between the EU and the Mercosur countries. In terms of numbers of people, the Mercosur Agreement is the most comprehensive agreement the EU has ever negotiated. This not only means that companies and consumers from Sweden and other EU countries have greater access to a market of 270 million people. What it means, and it is extremely important, is that we have succeeded in tying this large market to environmental and climate objectives that would probably not otherwise have been set. The MERCOSUR agreement means that Brazilian exporters, for example, must adapt to the higher environmental requirements of the European market in order to be able to export there. Without the MERCOSUR agreement, these exporters would sell their products to other markets with lower requirements. This is the alternative to the Mercosur Agreement. It is of great importance that the Mercosur countries confirm in the agreement with the EU that they will implement the Paris Agreement. This makes the Paris Agreement a natural component of EU-Mercosur trade relations. We thereby have a platform to discuss and monitor how the Paris Agreement is implemented nationally. The Mercosur countries are keen on the agreement with the EU, and this will allow us to put pressure on it. The agreement is expected to enter into force in at least two years' time, which gives us time to comply with the implementation of the Paris Agreement. This means, in practice, that if the Mercosur countries want to be sure of having a ratified trade agreement with the EU, they will have to show in action that they intend to protect the Amazon rain forest and reverse developments in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The agreement is important for the Mercosur countries and for the EU.
