i-7a6a21907c36d148-0	Mr President, I would like to Six months from now, we're going into another decade. The 20th century was decisive in Swedish history. Sweden took its first staggering democratic steps, but inequality was glaring. As PerPer-Albin Hansson pointed out, there is a formal similarity here, the similarity of political rights, but the social society still stands. Now we have enjoyed 100 years of democracy. Many people are listening here today who may be sitting in old farms or working-class homes and living lives that our grandparents could not even dream of. Every Swede who has engaged in their society in different ways can be proud of this. But, Mr President, social society still stands. It is now ultimately up to this House to decide whether the new 20th century will be a step backwards or a new leap towards equality. Should a nurse in the class society of the 2020s feel anxious about the pension waiting and on the headlines see company peaks that earn 358,000 SEK a day flutter by? Should a rural plumber see how there is a lack of resources to keep health centres and maternity clinics open while paying mortgage interest to four large banks that make an annual profit of 112 billion? Should a talented but poor girl follow Instagram how her peers step into Oxford or Sorbonne and at the same time know that her own local high school may be closed down if the profits fold? Today's class society is not identical to that of the 1920s. But snus is snus and injustice is unfair though in new packaging. Sweden will therefore respond now as we did then: that these screaming injustices must be removed. All Swedish children must have the same starting opportunities. All the sons and daughters of the land must be given the opportunity not only to make a good living here but also to enjoy all the good things that make life humanly rich. Then there is a main solution, and there is greater social justice through a massive and nationwide welfare offensive. We shall once again strive for the ideal of the people's home, without petletes and without stepchildren, and build a stronger society that will not be content with 350 000 more having started working in recent years. We will continue to make sure that everyone can come home to their loved one and say, "Yes, I got the job" and then proudly go to the work that forms the basis of our entire welfare model. It is a stronger society where we use our well-managed economy to also get more well-managed health centres, well-manned police stations and more welcoming retirement homes. It is a stronger society that means that those who organize a pub night at the homestead farm, fix coffee at the road association's annual meeting and are involved in lifting their district also feel the support from a single country. This isn't gonna be easy. It will require tough priorities and close cooperation with all the municipalities and regions of the country – including those governed by my toughest political opponents. But that is the key to all that we must and want to do. Take the climate transition. It can only be achieved and get popular support if it is also combined with social justice. Take the gang crime. Next to every day we see its atrocities. They're shootings, and they're bombings. We're gonna put these criminals in jail one by one. Five times more people are being arrested for serious gun crimes. More cameras are coming up. But crime can only be torn up by the fact that a strong police officer can cooperate with a strong social services and schools. That's what makes gangs unable to recruit young people. Take the segregation. Sweden's way forward is not a major migration but stronger integration. If we are to cope with it, it requires high demands to work, learn Swedish and become part of society and then equal opportunities. It is about vocational training, language training and equal living conditions. Prioritising welfare is not an easy task, but it is the task of the party that I lead the shoulders. That is the whole goal of government. That is the whole aim and reason for the negotiations and compromises: to push to build this very strong society that has the power to provide equal security and life opportunities, whether you live in the inner city, in the suburbs or in a place of use. A society of understanding, of respect and of helpfulness between people. If anyone doubts that it is possible, remember that it once took a country from hunger riots and memories of mass emigration to the construction of a world-leading welfare state. Surely, then, one of the richest and most developed countries in the world can once again pool their forces and ensure that we can live in such a great deal of equality, freedom and solidarity that we once again astound the world. Mr President, I would like to We celebrate 100 years of democracy, but social society still remains class society. Our task remains to ensure that all the daughters and sons of the land can enjoy all the good things that make life humanly rich.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-13	Mr President, I would like to You can actually paint a fairly bright picture of Sweden. We have our successful companies. Ericsson has just built Europe's first commercial 5G network. Spotify has revolutionized the entire music industry. There are more IKEA stores in the world than there are Swedish embassies. We now beat the Norwegians in sprint relay, and the national team started really well yesterday against Chile in the football World Cup. Then it is easy to be proud Swedish. You can also paint a much darker picture. It's about the integration crisis, gang crime, blasts and shootings. The unemployment rate of immigrants is four times higher than that of natives. About children who do not speak good Swedish, and adults who do not speak Swedish at all. It is a question of the growing shadow society, and on this occasion the unprecedented electricity crisis. Mr President, I would like to The government has lost control of what is happening in Sweden. Major problems remain unresolved, and it is clear that the government lacks a well thought-out idea for its work. Let me give four examples. First of all, 306 shootings last year. Almost one a day. 43 dead. Almost one a week. According to Brå, the number of victims of sexual abuse has tripled since 2014. At the same time, investigations are now being piled up. Last Sunday, an entire property with 37 apartments was blown up in Linköping. It was a wonder no one was killed. On Monday, a young guy was shot to death in Malmö. During the night two bombs were blown up. It's never gonna end. Last night Malmö woke up to another explosion. In the election movement, the Social Democrats promised that they would take hold of this, that is, more money for more police officers and tougher penalties so that more criminals are kept away further from the street. That was before the election. Now, in an almost sensationalally bad situation, the government is cutting down with a quarter billion on the police. We know that Stefan Löfven will soon say that police training is being expanded, but that does not help because the places are empty. The Social Democrats do not raise wages so that more police officers remain in the profession. No paid police training. There's no way to talk out serious crime. Secondly, there are companies that do not dare to grow because they lack access to electricity. Electricity! As if Sweden were a country with electric rationing and without basic physical infrastructure. During several election movements Stefan Löfven promised to invest in the Swedish business community. An industrial chancellor and several innovation catalysts would make a business plan for Sweden and lead to Europe's lowest unemployment. It became a grand fiasco. Energy policy is another failure. Everyone knows that nuclear power and hydropower are the basis of Swedish energy supply. Most people also know that Stefan Löfven really wants to keep nuclear power, but he must not say that because the Green Party wants to phase out nuclear power. Now the government is increasing the tax on cogeneration and destroying local electricity production. Companies after companies are alerting the threatening electricity shortage. Large projects are at risk of being stopped in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The factory company Lindab moves operations from Sweden. It is not daring to expand production in a country that cannot guarantee the supply of electricity," says the CEO. Socialism usually leads to two things: lack of electricity and lack of bread. This is exactly what the Pågen in Malmö is experiencing, i.e. no electricity and no new bakery. Thirdly, Mr President, Swedish defence is the ultimate guarantor of our freedom. But when all parties finally see the need for stronger defence, the Social Democrats no longer want to pay. The government's failure with the Defence Committee does not necessarily mean Sweden's failure in the defence policy. It was the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats that ensured that this year the defense received the money it needed. Stefan Löfven now justifies his decision by saying that there are more people than the defence who want money. Yes, yes! The Social Democrats want to save on defence because other things must be costing, such as free years and family week. Fourthly, immigration and integration go hand in hand. Integration is the greatest issue of our time. The integration crisis is due to many years of ill-considered Swedish migration policy. If Sweden is to have a chance to cope with the integration of several hundred thousand people who have already come to our country, immigration policy must be tight. On the contrary, next week in this House, the government wants to decide on a more generous immigration policy and open up Sweden to more family immigrants. This means that even more people will go to Sweden. It will make the integration of those who are already here more difficult. It devalues the credibility of migration policy as a whole. It's headless, it's reckless and it's irresponsible. Before the elections, the Social Democrats promised a tight migration policy. Now they do exactly the opposite with precision. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has many problems. One of them is about political leadership. We have a prime minister who says he'll get to grips with the problems, but on the contrary, he lets them grow. I'm basically an optimist. Sweden has solved difficult problems before, and we have taken up great opportunities before. That is how we once built the successful Swedish model. But now it doesn't work anymore, and we have to rebuild it again. Then one must dare to prioritise the really important tasks: integration, crime, defence of Sweden and the ability of companies to grow. For all who both see the problems and now want to make an effort to solve the problems, the Moderates are the alternative in Swedish politics.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-30	Mr President, I would like to The first parliamentary year of this parliamentary term is about to end. It's a historic first year. The election results of the governing party were historically poor. The post-election government formation became historically long and historically complex. The betrayal of some parties in the process of government formation was historic. In this connection, we saw a historically shameless, almost epic, hypocrisy from some of the most prominent representatives of this Parliament. The new political landscape that has been shaped accordingly is also historic. It is historical, partly because the left-right dimension is no longer the one that defines the lines of conflict in Swedish politics, and partly because the hegemonic position of the Social Democrats is downsafblade. Now we see a Social Democratic government carrying out almost neo-liberal reforms, which even the previous bourgeois government did not want to deal with. These are reforms with which the Social Democracy and friends devoted the whole autumn's electoral movement to intimidate the voters but which, when the power was at stake, were quite easy to buy. That too, Mr President, is a hypocrisy of historical, epic dimensions. In the wake of this, welfare is being eroded. I note that Stefan Löfven has just held his counterpart to the folk home speech. While Stefan Löfven is here talking about the folk home and how important it is that we equalise social injustices, we see how the municipality after the municipality releases alarm reports about how the economy is rocking. In fact, one in three regions and one in four Swedish municipalities went in deficit last year. One reason is that allowances for asylum immigrants no longer come in. Now the municipalities are there, Mr President, without housing and without jobs. The government's previous line that we will benefit from the mass immigration is shot in shame. The question is clear. When will these promised gains come? Stefan Löfven owes us the answer. Over the past ten years, mental illness in children aged 10-17 years has doubled. Within the group of young adults, the increase is 70 per cent. The Social Democrats' answer to this challenge is to cut psychiatry by SEK 90 million. How does this cut help all those young people who now directly need help and support? Stefan Löfven owes us the answer. Sweden has the most poor pensioners in the Nordic countries and more than the majority of the EU countries. We've put our own seniors in the ironing class. When will the government and Stefan Löfven seriously understand that a decent society primarily focuses on giving its own citizens a decent life before throwing billions at the citizens of other countries? Stefan Löfven owes us the answer. Mr President, I would like to We don't build walls, Stefan Löfven said. But that's exactly what you do. You lock people in shadow societies. People are being built into poverty. It cements hopelessness, frustration and social decision-making. In addition, policies are now being pursued that will open up to even higher levels of asylum-related immigration. It is so irresponsible that you hardly believe it to be true. When is it enough for the government and the left-wing liberal majority? Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven owes us the answer.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-39	Mr President, I would like to The coming years are crucial if we are to meet one of the greatest challenges facing mankind. The climate challenge cannot wait. Environmental problems cannot be shoveled away. Recently, the highest level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere was measured in 3 million years. We see young people, an entire generation, telling us not to ruin their future. We see how climate change is extremely tangible to a great many, to the entire globe. Just ask all the farmers who last summer saw their harvest dry away or the forest owners who saw their forest devoured by the flames. People with their own well saw the water levels sink and the well dry. In some parts of the country, the situation is worse this year than it was last year. You can't close your eyes anymore. We must take the warning signals seriously. Mr President, I would like to We need to take responsibility. We need to act. While some in this House are busy reducing or denying the problems, we in the Center Party are busy solving the problems. In the elections to the European Parliament just three weeks ago, we achieved our best ever. More people chose to vote for the Centre Party than ever before in a European election. Many did so because we chose to put our political focus on environmental and climate issues. We presented a number of new, concrete proposals in the field of environment and climate change. We want to make it easier for people to choose the train in front of the flight and switch to a greener flight throughout Europe and to the rest of the world. We want to stimulate and encourage new green environmental technologies, both solutions that reduce emissions and environmental technologies that actually remove emissions from the atmosphere. Our environmental responsibility is real. Our climate policy is needed in Europe but also in Sweden. I am glad that so many people saw our fight for the climate and on 26 May gave us their confidence in the European elections. Mr President, I would like to Rural areas play a key role in the green transition. If we are to cope with climate and cohesion, the transition must take place in a sustainable and fair manner. Green industries must have the right conditions. We must use the forest raw material and seize the potential of the forest. For the Center Party, rural conditions are something that we obviously prioritise. We therefore welcome the fact that more parties have recently chosen to engage in these important issues for Sweden. During the spring several movements that want to see better conditions in the countryside have raised their voices. Only a few days ago, on Monday, a debate was held here in Parliament on rural conditions at the initiative of the Center Party. We listen to the hundreds of thousands of people who have raised their voices, people who want to be able to stay, run businesses and have fair conditions. We know that our policy makes a difference. All of us who have grown up in the countryside and felt the sense of belonging but also the forward spirit that permeates villages and communities know the power that exists in the Swedish countryside – if you only get the chance, without stifling bureaucracy and clumping politicians. That force needs support, and it needs air under its wings. We can make sure we meet the climate threat. We can ensure that environmental problems are reduced. We can use the countryside as a key in the green transition. We can build a Sweden that stays together.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-53	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by congratulating the Swedish football team on a very nice opening of the World Cup tournament. I hope that the day will soon come when female footballers will receive the same financial compensation as male footballers, who are making such a good effort for our country. Only a few weeks ago the streets of many Swedish cities were filled with great manifestations. It was manifestations that didn't get much attention. There was a shortage of news broadcasts. There weren't many articles. But the participants were thousands. They were preschool teachers and teachers, and they sounded the alarm that things look bad in many of our municipalities. An already pressured work situation with large groups of children is at risk of deteriorating, and when you see the draft budgets presented, you see how resources are being drawn into those children who most need support at school. This is a message that we should take on board and listen to, because when preschool teachers and teachers no longer have time for those children who really need support, we know that things are going badly. We also know that the same alarm signals come from many who work in the care of the elderly and find it difficult to manage. We know what it looks like to be panicky austerity in health care in many of our regions. Municipalities around Sweden raise taxes that they haven't done in many years. A lot of people are making deficits. We see a wave of cuts in welfare across Sweden, and it has a direct connection to decisions made in this House by this Parliament. That is the effect of politics here. We all know that welfare would have needed substantial contributions, tens of billions of dollars, to meet the current level. For that, investment is needed. The government should reasonably have changed the policy and said that the major tax cuts must now wait. Let's make the necessary investments. Checkers, teachers and nurses shall have reasonable conditions. But that's not happening. When you ask the government why they say we have a blue-brown budget. It was the Moderates and Christian Democrats who received support from the Swedish Democrats for their budget. They chose to reduce taxes, especially for those who earn the most. They chose to remove important equality reforms that the Left Party had achieved. The 2 billion extra to staff in the care of the elderly just disappeared. It's true. That budget was voted through. It was a bad budget for welfare in Sweden, regardless of what Åkesson and Kristersson say here in the speaker's chair. But the fact is, the government is not doing anything about it. It had the chance this spring to bring forward changes that would give welfare priority over tax cuts. You didn't do it. The government is busy implementing the election manifesto of the Center Party and Liberals, and there are other things that apply. These are tax cuts for those who earn the most. Now it is intended to continue with increased ceilings in RUT. It is specially designed for the richest in Sweden. You should remove the military tax instead of investing in municipalities and county councils. It looks gloomy around Sweden. Even in the bourgeois flagship of Danderyd, the silver was sold out for a long time. But now it's empty in the boxes in Danderyd. Now you have to raise the tax instead. That's what it looks like. The government intends to continue this policy, and it will have to be carried by the nurses, by the supervisors, by the teachers, by the children and by the elderly. They pay the price for that policy. But there is a policy of equality. It is perfectly possible to increase revenue for welfare. It is perfectly possible to have a fair tax system, where the tax rate is higher for those with high capital income but lower for those with low pensions. It is perfectly possible to implement equality reforms that allow people to afford to go to the dentist and that allow us to have good pensions for those who have been working for a long time. But it is not possible to deal with today's policy. The government is very responsible for the crisis in the municipalities. There are parties here that boast of removed military tax and tax cuts while their municipal politicians hold the axe against preschool children and school children around Sweden when the cuts come. The last should not be interpreted too literally – just a reservation for safety reasons. The Left Party prevented the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates from gaining power. That was the right thing to do. I'm proud we did it. But we have never supported this policy, and we set limits on it. We will not accept any deterioration in the Employment Protection Act or the introduction of market rents in Sweden. We draw a line on what this government can do. It is when the Left grows that we can once again have a policy of equality in this country. It is not enough to make fine speeches. If you want equality, you must also have a policy for it.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-70	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with a slightly lighter note and say that all parties in the Swedish parliament can agree on one point: It will be nice with a little summer leave! It is a strange parliamentary year that is now being added to the documents. Last autumn's election movement was intense, but the aftermath became both longer and more exhausting than the election movement itself. Months of negotiations and talks followed. We were many who smiled when the Riksdag Café began to offer a small buffet of cookies sold under the name Talmansrund. Since then, we have been conducting yet another election campaign, which actually degenerated into a fireworks of distortions and insults. Unfortunately, I do not believe that it strengthened the confidence of the Swedish people in politics. Now, the focus must be on substantive policy, and it is urgent. Because even if Parliament takes summer leave, the health care crisis does not – it gets worse during the summer. Summer is the time when high-pregnant women are most at risk of not getting a place to give birth and when healthcare professionals are asked to stop their leave to get to work. Summer is the time when the already long care queues become even longer. Last year the queues increased by another 46 000 people. There are about as many as Stefan Lövven's and my common favorite Beyoncé went to Friends Arena a few years ago – quite a few. Mr President, I would like to It is still only the Christian Democrats who see that Swedish healthcare needs to be fundamentally rebuilt – that county councils are too small and too weak to provide care that is good, equal and on time. The Swedish Parliament has decided, following proposals from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, on 4 billion to strengthen health care. There is 1.6 billion to a revised and updated queue billion, 1.6 billion to enhanced primary care, 500 million to an updated national cancer plan and 400 million to paid training for specialist nurses. But the strange thing, Mr President, is that, although 183 days have gone by, of these 4 billion, not a single crown has yet been paid out. Instead, the calm that staff and patients should experience has settled over the Government Office. Something similar can also be said about the situation of people who depend on help according to the LSS. The government had to act swiftly to change the law and guarantee the right to help with breathing and probe feeding. The government had to act urgently when children who have lost their right to assistance were instead in danger of going to institutions. But the only thing the government did quickly was to fire the Director General of the Social Insurance Agency Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. Begler became the scapegoat of government policy when the S-tops needed to save their own skin. That, Mr President, is shameful and unworthy of Sweden and Swedish politics. Putting together a country's budget and making good use of people's and companies' tax money is not easy. Nobody says so. We Christian Democrats know this; we have been in charge of Sweden. We know that good priorities require good values – that you manage to choose the important over the fun and to be able to say no to the voice-strong and instead think about the one that no voice has. Mr President, I would like to The government managed to stay in place, but it failed with the art of reconciling priorities and values. The result is clearly seen in Swedish welfare. The Christian Democrats will continue to speak on this. We will not let go of health care, care for the elderly or assistance, nor crime – this paralysing poison for society that has recently hit Linköping and Malmö, again with vigour. In the face of such threats, the state must be harsh. In the face of such forces, politics must be stronger. Otherwise, the honest, secure and confident Sweden will lose the battle. This is the basis of the Christian Democrats' view of society. We offer security and welfare for those who need the support of society and an unconditional battle against those who violate the laws of society. Now that Parliament takes summer leave, we should all remember that social problems do not.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-82	Mr President, I would like to It is 25 years since I became a full-time politician when I was appointed mayor of Stockholm City Hall. Despite the fact that that time was marked by a deep economic crisis in Sweden, the optimism of the future was still great. This was because it was only a few years after the Berlin Wall had been demolished. When I was a young captain of Svea Livgarde, we closely followed that development. We didn't know how the Soviets would act in that situation. But the socialist tyrannists in the East had emptied their trust capital from their own citizens. People longed for liberal freedom in the West, and the liberal revolution 30 years ago became peaceful. The fall of the Berlin Wall led to global development worldwide, with a market economy and democratisation in many third world countries. Customs duties were abolished, and trade and transparency were the key words. We came to call this globalisation, even if we did not say that word at the time, at the beginning. The world became freer and better, and walls were torn down. It has since been the best time for mankind. Never have people been as good as today. Economic growth in the world has been as strong in the last 30 years as it was in the previous 30 000 years. Life expectancy is higher than ever. Child mortality and illiteracy are lower than ever before. How, then, is it to explain that so many people in the West still seem to want to turn away from the world order that has been so successful and that the most important leaders of the West no longer seem to want to lead the West but only their own country and also want to build walls against the neighbours? More than ten years ago, two deep, profound crises occurred simultaneously in the world. The first was the financial crisis, the deepest in 80 years, which created mass unemployment in large parts of the world. The second was the total breakdown in the Middle East, which led to both a refugee crisis and a terrorist threat. When all of this happened at the same time, it caused great anxiety in our part of the world. These concerns have been exploited by those who want to fundamentally transform our whole social system into something else. We must acknowledge that the Western world was not able to face and resolve the crises ten years ago sufficiently forcefully and quickly. This is also the great lesson and main task for our country and for the West: to solve the problems in the coming years but also to create stronger cooperation to prevent future crises of a similar nature. But we shall also put the positive words into words. We should remember that the corresponding financial crisis in the early 1930s led to a development that ended in world war, where the dictatorships took over. This has not happened this time, and I would say that it is because the collective memory of the events of the 20th century is there. We know how it ended, so we are vigilant. But it is also due to the strong institutions that were built up in the West because of the experience of the early 1900s: the EU, NATO, the United Nations. Those institutions have also been stabilizing in this situation, and it is extremely important that they are not weakened. We need to learn from history. It is transparency that creates success, not solitude. It is when we cooperate with each other that we are successful, not when we oppose each other. It is when we build bridges that we are successful, not when we build walls. Mr President, I would like to This is my 39th party leader debate in this House. The party leadership mission is intense. Twelve years as a party leader and 25 years as a politician – it has been incredibly fun almost all the time. But it's demanding. To be elected a Member of Parliament of the Swedish people is the finest position of trust you can have in a democracy. It is a favor to be involved in influencing the development of society in our amazing country. I am extremely proud and moved for myself to have had this opportunity and gained this confidence. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you, those of you who follow this debate, Members of Parliament, party leaders, government, Speakers and all parliamentary staff for their cooperation over all these years. Thank you!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-94	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank Jan Björklund for his inspiration for many years. It has always been very interesting to follow your contributions and your path in politics. Thank you for that inspiration! We're listening. That is what the CEO of the British Coal and Oil Association said. The one she would listen to is Greta Thunberg. Listening has become an emergency exit for those who lack answers. Listening has become an excuse not to. For example, imagine asking your children to clean their room. How many of you would be pleased with the answer: Yes, Dad, I listen to you! For those of us who have worked with environmental issues for a long time, there is also another variant that we recognise: We think about the environment. How many times have you been told? In fact, we are also thinking about the environment. What would it be like to do the same in other policy areas? Who gets away with saying that we are thinking about unemployment, or that we are thinking about crime? This shows one thing clearly about today's question of destiny: It is time to go from listening and thinking to doing. It is time for a new alliance in Swedish politics, an alliance for the climate. We are now seeing how a new popular movement is beginning to emerge, and we are already seeing the effects of it. The air tax imposed by the Green Party has triggered an important debate in society. As a result, flying is decreasing and people are choosing to take the train instead. 378 000 fewer passengers travelled from Swedish airports in the first quarter of this year compared with the same period last year. At the same time, train bookings increase by 10 percent in just one year. Sales of electric cars have increased by 440 per cent in May this year compared with the same month last year. It is obvious because of the bonus – the Malus system that the Green Party has also been involved in. Today, cars powered by electricity, including hybrids, ethanol and gas, account for almost 20% of new car registration. The sale of solar cells beats record in Sweden. Ikea will now start selling solar cells in Sweden for the first time, because you can see that the market is large and that it is growing. According to Swedish Wind Energy, the government's policy now means that wind power will only double by 2022, i.e. in the next few years. Then a quarter of all the electricity we use will come from wind power. Swedish consumers now opt out of red meat for climate reasons, and vegetarian food is increasing rapidly in sales. We see that commitment is now growing in our world and in our country. We see that we have the technology. We have the knowledge and the resources. The question now is whether we have the will. Together we can now launch a joint project in which, together with companies, agriculture and industry, we create a modern fossil-free welfare country. The January agreement provides a basis for this new alliance in Swedish politics. We have the chance to make it easier for people to make climate-smart choices and take their own responsibility. We do this by concentrating on train traffic throughout the country, on high-speed trains and on night trains to the continent. Anyone who decorates his roof with solar cells should be able to count on a support. Companies that switch to fossil freedom will receive support through Industrikliv and Klimatkliv. In 11 years' time, no petrol and diesel cars will be sold in Sweden. Then everyone will be driven on electricity and renewable fuels. On behalf of the Green Party, we want newly built roofs in our country to be covered with solar cells. The EU elections showed that climate policy is something that voters are asking or even demanding of politicians. That is why the green parties are now also growing throughout the EU. Mr President, I would like to Today, our children belong to a generation that is afraid of its own future. It is our duty to replace that fear with hope. And hope comes through action. That is why we now need a new alliance for the climate.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-110	Mr President, I would like to As usual, I can agree with a great deal of sense that has been said during this round. I'm counting out the worst invectives against the government, but otherwise it's a lot of good. Even a few warm words from the right have been said about welfare. But if anyone hesitates about the dividing lines of Swedish politics, then remember the last budget put forward by the bourgeois government. Twenty times more was spent on tax cuts than on school. Remember how they took the chance again last fall. At that time, Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats voted through a budget that spent 20 billion on tax cuts but only crumbs on welfare. Also remember that the tax reform that the government will sooner or later present may also include tax reductions but has the overall aim to secure the long-term financing of Swedish welfare and to increase equality. But the Moderates' tax reform should not only give the most to those who have the most, but it should also be financed by what they call an ambitious expenditure reform. If you translate it into Swedish, it is cuts in welfare. So welcome up to the speaker's chair, Ulf Kristersson! Take the opportunity to tell us about all the ambitious cuts you want to make in Swedish welfare!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-115	Mr President, I would like to The day before yesterday was a normal Monday in Sweden, so also in Malmö. And yet not. Shortly after 10 o'clock in the morning: A man appears threateningly at the central station. The police are forced to shoot the man in both legs.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-119	This happened within 18 hours on a regular Monday in Sweden's third largest city, my grandmother's and my father's Malmö. But this isn't everyday life at all. I don't want it to be everyday. How bad must it get before this government gets to grips with the situation?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-121	Mr President, I would like to I think that we broadly agree that we must take a firm stand against crime, not least gang crime. That's not where the dividing line goes. But let me still refresh Kristersson's memory. We are providing more resources to the police than the authority itself requested. There are now twice as many police officers as when Kristersson was in the government. It is not true that the seats are empty. It has been adopted more than ever before for the autumn term. It is almost 1 000 people who have been adopted to start an education. There's gonna be more cops. The Authority also sees this increase ahead of it. The conditions for police officers are improving. They may have got the best wage agreements on the labour market. We're facilitating surveillance for the police. We're tightening up the penalties, not least for serious gun crimes. The same applies to 30 other penalties.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-124	Mr President, I would like to I do not doubt the Prime Minister's goodwill. I doubt his ability. I do not doubt for a moment that you want to eliminate crime. But you can't because you're not doing the right thing. There are fewer policemen today than in 2014 and you're shaking your head. It was 20 051 in 2014. It's 19 805 right now. There are fewer police officers and more serious crimes. There are more victims of sexual crimes. There are shootings almost every day. You have lost your grip on perhaps the single most important question that the Swedish people ask themselves. Can I be safe in my own hometown? Does anyone take on the task of guarding me at night? You have failed in the most fundamental area of the state. Do something! Don't just talk!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-126	Mr President, I would like to Let me repeat that the police authorities are seeing the increase in policemen coming, because we are training twice as many. They must be trained first. They're not on the shelf, Kristersson. When Ulf Kristersson was in the government, one could go out on the town with a gun in the inner pocket, get arrested, come in to the police and come out in the afternoon. Then one saw when one could possibly receive a punishment. Now it's different, Kristersson. If you go out with a gun in town and get arrested, you'll be out in two years at the earliest. That's how we deal with this, and that's how we're gonna put every criminal behind bars. That's why it's now full in prisons. That is why we are now forced to buy bunk beds. We will continue to do so, because crime is going away. People should be safe. We are basically in agreement on this. Do not seek the conflict that does not exist!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-129	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven wanted to talk about welfare, so I'll pick up that ball. There are many beautiful speeches, not least from the Prime Minister. But beautiful speeches are not enough, but we also need to see what the reality is. We can stand in this speaker's chair and say: "We are going to give priority now." We're going to prioritise welfare. We're going to rebuild the folks' home. But what Stefan Löfven and his government do and have done since they took office five years ago is exactly the opposite. Welfare has continued to be dismantled. Swedish society has continued to be divided. The bones of the welfare model that we have in Swedish society have been removed. This has been done for a reason, above all. A large asylum and family migration has been given priority over Swedish welfare, and now they are doing the same again. Stefan Löfven! How does this make sense?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-132	Mr President, I would like to It's not often I get a round of applause before I speak. Well, well-being is exactly what we're focusing on. We do it mainly in two ways. One is to ensure that more people get to work. We now have 350 000 more people in work. It is the very foundation for affording this. The second is to ensure that resources come precisely to welfare. During the previous term of office, we have made the biggest investment in Swedish welfare in decades. Of the 350 000 more currently in work, 100 000 are in Swedish welfare, Jimmie Åkesson. There are 13,000 more in hospitals and 5,000 more in elderly care. That's how it has to go, because I'm not happy. But then it is not possible, Jimmie Åkesson, to join forces with the Moderates and believe that the major tax cuts will lead to more welfare, for they do not. Large tax cuts cut income and cut opportunities to increase welfare. The Swedish democrats have stood in the right corner, and this is not successful for Swedish welfare.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-135	Mr President, I would like to If taxes are properly reduced, tax revenue will increase. I'm not sure that the most effective way to create more jobs and increase welfare is to remove the defense tax, but Stefan Löfven obviously thinks so, at least since Stefan Löfven had to take office again as Prime Minister. I also have no doubt that Stefan Löfven has good ambitions, but there is a lack of understanding or possibly a lack of willingness to see what reality actually looks like. The Swedish population has increased enormously in recent years, as a result of an irresponsible immigration policy. That is the very foundation of the erosion of welfare. That is the very reason why the municipalities are on their knees today, despite the fact that we are still in a boom. Oh, my goodness! Stefan Löfven! How can you continue to increase asylum-related immigration while at the same time claiming that welfare will improve? That does not make sense, Mr President.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-138	Mr President, I would like to There's a big difference here. If you cut so much tax revenue, it will be less money for the welfare. In the January agreement we have a tax reform. As far as the defense tax is concerned, I say: had I had my own choice, I would not have done so. But there will be a tax reform aimed at securing the long-term financing of Swedish welfare. That's the purpose. It is a question of reducing disparities. The policy of migration has been changed. It is during our government period that migration policy has been changed. There are considerably fewer now coming to Sweden. Had I had to choose there too, if there was a majority in favour of it in this House, I would also do more in terms of labour migration. I do not think that we need to draw labour from across the globe to do jobs that people here can do. But we've changed it. I have no children of my own, but I understand those parents and children who want to be reunited. That's what reunification is all about. I think it's highly human. It's highly humane.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-141	Mr President, I would like to For the 2014 elections, an agreement was reached between six parties on the future of free schools. It chose the Social Democrats and the Green Party to leave by pursuing a hot chase at independent schools in the last parliamentary term. Through the January agreement that we concluded a number of months ago, we saved the freedom of choice for students and for parents. The Reepalu investigation was finally thrown into the trash can. On the other hand, a remainder of the previous term's incitement to independent schools is the proposal that free schools should be obliged to report their finances, as a public document to the public. This has been sawed by both the Law Council and the Free Schools. However, despite the fact that the January agreement sets out a different direction for freedom of choice, the Minister for Education has commented positively on the proposal.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-144	Mr President, I would like to The concrete answer to that question is: let us come back to that. We prepare this and look at what needs to be done. We agree, as Annie Lööf says, on the free schools and how to handle them. But let us still problematize a little! It's not just peace and joy. We have, for example, a grade hunt and a grade premium ring in Swedish school. Here are fairly good grades. Here students are actually tricked into thinking that they have better knowledge than they have, because here it is important to compete with good grades. This is something that happens in Swedish school. We divide too many students into different schools. It is not good for Swedish society. We must be able to discuss what is a problem, and that is a real problem. As far as religious free schools are concerned, we agree to stop start-ups. I think that's right. If I had received a majority here in Parliament for that, I would have said: We should not have religious free schools at all. I don't have a majority for that. We must see what is actually a problem in Swedish school and do something about it.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-148	Mr President, I would like to And now back to the substance of the matter: the principle of public access in private companies as well. The agreement that we have to deal with together is the January agreement, which states that freedom of choice should be central to the Swedish welfare model. It is quite clear to me and to the vast majority that good and reasonable conditions are important for all schools, whether public or private, in order to safeguard freedom of choice. It must be high quality standards, strict supervision and equal for all. Introduce a principle of public access to a type of company working with public funds risks causing more companies to suffer, and this is an attack on free enterprise and, in a way, a surreptitious path to undermine private business. My question, therefore, is this: should the same principle of public access as the Social Democrats are now running and on which there is a proposal in the Government Office also apply to construction companies, for example, which carry out public service tasks? How is free enterprise safeguarded?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-152	Mr President, I would like to You can ask as many speculative questions as you like, but if we stick to school, I think it's worth a discussion when we pay tax money to schools so that our children get the best possible education. We must at least be able to discuss how the money is spent. Is this a completely unreasonable discussion? No, I don't think so. We need to be able to discuss. We're going to retain our freedom of choice. Now the freedom of choice in the Swedish carbon system is not perfect, but some are forced to put their children in line already when they are at BB. Freedom of choice is therefore not perfect, and the system is not perfect. We have major problems in Swedish schools. Thankfully, we are raising the results, but we have major challenges ahead of us. I think we need to be able to discuss both freedom of choice and the right of entrepreneurs. Now it is children's education that must come first, and taxpayers' money should be used in the best possible way.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-155	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Löfven! In his opening speech, the Prime Minister mentioned those nurses who are anxious about the low pension they will receive. There are reasons for this, given how low the pensions are and that many nurses do not even have the energy to work to the age of retirement. Now the government is proposing to raise the retirement age for these nurses as well. This risks leading to the early retirement of several of them and a very low pension for the duration of their pensioner's term. The Left Party has proposed a simplified and improved model for sickness benefit, which allows those who are tired of their work to receive sickness benefit until the age of 67 and thus a better pension once they retire. But the government has not put forward such a proposal. The risk is that the increased retirement age, which we will be voting against, means that it is precisely LO members with heavy jobs who lose out.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-158	Mr President, I would like to I believe that one of the most important things we can do is to ensure that people are able to work their entire working life at all. It is not possible to fool anyone by saying that you can work fewer years and that we will still be able to manage pensions. That would be cheating people. The pension is based on work. But there are too many people who are on sick leave and worn out, not least women in care. That is why we need to bring more resources. That is why we have brought more resources. That's why the staff in care for the elderly and the health care system have got more colleagues, but they need even more so that they don't wear out. Then you'll be able to work, and that's a big enough point. But those who say that nothing needs to be done are nevertheless the answer guilty. There is no quick fix for the pension; that's how simple it is. Then we have to make sure that we can pay a real pension for everyone. The first step is to make sure you're up to it-- you shouldn't wear yourself out at work.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-161	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, excellent if more people can and want to work longer, and I think we will see such a development. But we do know that hundreds of thousands of people can't stand it. They're construction workers, nurses and shift workers. They can't take it without the body saying stop. I can't. They risk becoming the big losers when the retirement age rises if nothing is done to protect those who have been working for decades on their jobs. We have put forward such a proposal, which means that even the construction worker and the assistant nurse who can no longer work receive a reasonable pension and are allowed to walk when the body says no and they are no longer able to do so. But I can see that the government has nothing. It's empty. There is nothing for this group. They risk becoming the big losers when the retirement age is raised. This must not happen.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-163	Mr President, I would like to Yes, a great deal is being done for Swedish pensioners. During the previous term of office, we increased the income of pensioners by an average of SEK 1 100. Now the basic pension must be increased, and this does not apply to nurses. We are going to raise pensions, and we are also going to bring money to raise the pension for those who are high above the basic pension. These include those who have worked a full career and may have worked part-time or been on sick leave for a long time. They're retiring. In addition, our party wants to ensure that contributions to the pension system are increased, because that is what will eventually help. There's no quick fix. We need to put more money into the pension system. Then we can tell all of Sweden's employees: When you retire, you must have at least 70 per cent of your salary in retirement. That's how we have to work. And then we must ensure that all these women who work in the care of our welfare are not worn out. They're going to last their whole lives. It's the best for them, it's the best for welfare and it's the best for Sweden.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-166	Mr President, I would like to With regard to new solutions to welfare issues, there is a familiar social democratic three-step model: preventing, making things difficult and stalling. This has been the case with the queue billions, which the Social Democrats have both prevented and made difficult and are now delaying the reintroduction of. In the same way, it is with the primary care initiative that we decided in December. In total, there are 4 billion medical crowns from the KD-M budget that have still not been used. The money's there, but the patients will have to wait. The staff will have to wear themselves out and the problems will spread, and this will only get worse during the summer.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-169	Mr President, I would like to If the Social Democrats have a solution to welfare, the Christian Democrats also have one: tax cuts. It won't hold. You have to bring resources. We are now working on this very issue. The reason why we do not intend to rush forward and make a proposal one week after it has been decided here is that we should avoid the mistake made by the bourgeois government when they introduced the queue billions. It was because the profession said that the queue billions work wrong for those who are multi-sick or chronically ill because it only rewards quick visits. The more visitors, the more you got paid. Even the Medical Association said that it was not good and that we should have care as needed, nothing else. We are therefore taking some time and will shortly be putting forward a proposal for both a primary care reform and a renovated, new queue billion that is actually useful and that continues to sustain what we are going to live by: care as needed. The proposal will be here in a moment.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-172	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister and I will have a substantial tax cut next year. That is what happens when the Social Democrats rule. With the tax policy of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, everyone gets a tax cut. Despite this, we are making an extra 4 billion investment in health care, which the government has been doing for 183 days, not a week. When I mentioned V antetids.se in Agenda's party leader debate, that side crashed. Now, the number of patients who have been waiting illegally for a long time is up to 83,000 patients – this before the summer. So I wonder again: What motivates the government to wait 183 days to give sick people – society's most vulnerable – the help they need, so that they receive good care, equal care and care in time when they need it? The money won't do any good in Magdalena Andersson's barn.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-175	Mr President, I would like to Ebba Busch Thor has good onelins. I'll try it again. Work has now been done and we will soon be putting forward a proposal for a new queue billion. We have also spent time together with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and with the profession discussing how such a queue billion will be designed so that it will not be like the bourgeois government's queue billions, so that only quick visits are rewarded, but you actually have to take into account those who are multiple-sick or chronically ill. People should have care as needed. This proposal had not been put forward by the Christian Democrats. Now we are doing it, and we are doing it with those who are going to do it. It is the most stable solution. We agree that the queues must be removed. Swedish citizens should enter the healthcare system when they need it. Nothing else applies. Now the proposal will be here in a moment.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-178	Mr President, I would like to The power supply is under threat, and the alarm reports are responding. The network company Ellevio warns that the shortage of electricity may threaten Bypass Stockholm and the extension of the metro. Bageribolaget Pågen wants to expand its operations in Malmö but is stopped due to a lack of electricity. The CEO Anders Carlsson Jerndal says that power shortages are something they have heard about in developing countries. The listed workshop company Lindab has received the same information and has already moved parts of its production to Germany and Denmark. The risk of a shortage of electricity now threatens Gothenburg, Mälardalen and Uppsala, and Region Skåne warns that the shortage of electricity can affect the operation of the new hospital in Malmö. Mr President, I would like to Crises can come all of a sudden. But this crisis is actively created by the red-green government in a three-step rocket. First, taxes on cogeneration increased eightfold, which shuts down local electricity production in Stockholm and Malmö. Then came the government's proposal for a new regulation of electricity grid companies, which reduces absolutely necessary investments in the networks. In addition, Swedish nuclear power is being decommissioned. Ringneck 1 and Ringhals 2 are closed. A large part of Swedish fossil-free electricity is about to disappear. Anders Ygeman waves away the seriousness of the words of wisdom: We have no lack of power. Environmentist Katarina Luhr says: It only applies to the coldest days when people turn on the coffee maker or shower. We can't have this. 174 mandates here call for a new and better Swedish energy policy that both takes responsibility for the climate and protects Swedish companies. The responsibility now rests heavily on the 100 mandates of the Social Democrats.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-186	Mr President, I would like to The moderate leader's speech fell rather flat. We have a broad energy agreement. It includes the Moderates. I hope you stand up for it. Otherwise, Ulf Kristersson talks a lot about how to fight crime. That is where we share our view. The police are doing an amazing job, but they need new tools. After the bourgeois have trained too few police officers for many years, we are now training considerably more police officers. We've increased the grant. And last night, a bill was handed over to this House to tighten the penalty for murder, so that more people are sentenced to life. This is important. But what the Moderates never say a word about is how to strangle the supply of crime. It's never gonna come up. How do we break the causes of crime? It's about something completely different. Then it is about jobs for those who are not working, about an equal and much better school, about an association life and about good residential areas. When, Kristersson, are we going to hear the Moderate Leader talk about the causes of crime?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-189	Mr President, I would like to So it is not more leisure parks that will stop the gang criminals in our suburbs. The most important preventive action that we can make for children and young people who are currently involved in serious crime is to lock up those who recruit these children and young people. There are no shortcuts. If the gang criminals are in prison twice as long – we have proposals for what you say no to – they are out of the street, and then they cannot recruit new 12- and 13-year-olds. It's prevention for real. Moreover, if these children and young people learn something in school and finish grade 9 with good grades, their chances in life will increase dramatically. Prevention must be real. It's not a general softie. If serious crime is not stopped, people in these towns lose confidence in society. It would be a disaster for Sweden.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-192	Mr President, I would like to It is clear here that we need to do two things. One is exactly what Kristersson is talking about. That is why there are more people in prisons now than for a very long time, and that is why bunk beds are being bought to accommodate them. The problem, however, is that in the suburbs there are others who say: Now I am ready to shoulder the mantle as leader. It is this supply that we must stop. Otherwise, we can fill any number of prisons without anything happening. These kids are supposed to watch their parents go to work every day. They should have a school that gives them an opportunity, where they feel that it is a school where they should be so that they can earn their own living. They're supposed to have a decent residential area with dignity. They're supposed to have leisure time, too-- well, it's actually important. When will the Moderates and Kristersson also start talking about how we break the causes of the crime and stop the supply of gang crime?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-196	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister is absolutely right that it takes two things, but you don't do any of them. So you do not stop the serious criminals who today, tonight, yesterday, the day before yesterday and almost every day shoot each other and scare the lives of people who could have been injured. You obviously don't manage to do those. If you were satisfied with the result that you have now, I would be even more horrified. It's worse now than when you took office. There are fewer policemen than when you took office. And you're not making any preventive efforts. You're not gonna make it with the kids in school. We have worse schools in the suburbs. It is quite clear that people go loose and recruit new young people. So the Prime Minister is absolutely right. Two actions are needed: a rock-hard reaction to the serious criminals to be locked in and also important preventive measures. You're both failing.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-197	Mr President, I would like to I think there has been a little more energy in the Moderates during the last week, Ulf Kristersson. Here in Parliament's pulpit, the members, one after the other, have run up and down and talked about Begler, Försäkringskassan and Strandhäll. I think there has been a strong commitment on the part of the Moderates. But there is one thing that I somewhat lack in this moderate commitment. None of the people I have listened to have mentioned the real scandal – the thousands of Swedes who do not receive their sickness allowance, all who are worn out but do not receive any sickness benefit and who are concerned and see the financial scarcity coming. Why is it that no moderate points out the real scandal of the Social Insurance Agency, that people suffer so badly when they do not receive sickness benefit or sickness benefit?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-199	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that the leader of the Left Party is so committed to the life, energy and so on of the Moderates. I really appreciate that. I will give that greeting to those who have been here. Then I think Jonas Sjöstedt might miss a point here. Their commitment to the government's mismanagement of an authority is about what the state and the government can do with their heads of authority. We have had quite a lot of discussion about this in this House, including a very critical review in the Constitutional Committee. The second issue that is equally important, and which I spent four years of my life on, is to receive health insurance that does what it should and that responds to people's need for security when they fall ill but that does not make people at home or are on sick leave longer than is absolutely necessary. This discussion is just as important. I would be happy to have this discussion any day.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-202	Madam President, I would like It is quite right that there is reason to blame the government, and we on the Left Party side have done so in the Constitutional Committee. We strongly criticised the dismissal of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler against the arguments used. Nevertheless, there is a trait of new language in moderate rhetoric. It was you who began the hunt for the sick during Reinfeldtåren, Ulf Kristersson. You cut back on health insurance. You have never hesitated to save those who need protection in case of illness. You have also wanted to make the current system even worse by introducing a backlog in health insurance. Thus, the new language about better health insurance is really about fewer sick people getting protection. The truth is that the Moderates are for the security of Directors-General but against the security of the person who is ill or has been worn out at work. Maybe you should put some more energy there?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-205	Madam President, I would like That is not the case at all. In addition, it was not we who first of all saw the major social problem of many people being on sick leave longer than necessary, but it was Göran Persson – and he was absolutely right. He coined the halving target. So we have twice as much sick leave as a fairly healthy country should have, and it was his government that started working on it. He didn't succeed, but the diagnosis of problems was quite correct. You have to have people in work if you are to get the tax revenue that allows those who are sick to receive compensation when they are at home and unable to work. Then you cannot have health insurance that makes many people who could work are on sick leave year after year. That problem saw Göran Persson's government, and we saw that problem. Unlike Göran Persson's government, however, we managed to do something about the problem.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-207	Madam President, I would like I have to say that it is courageous for Ulf Kristersson to stand in Parliament's pulpit and promote more coal power while in his budget he halves the support for solar cells. More coal and less sun I do not really reflect the Swedish people's priorities. However, I would like to ask Ulf Kristersson another sustainability question. As parents, we look forward very much to hugging our children when we get home tonight. Sometimes we get late home and find it hard. Then imagine not seeing your children for one, two or perhaps five years — missing school graduations, soccer trainings, birthdays and not being able to hug your children good night. In this House there are two parties opposed to our proposal to enable more parents to reunite with their families. My question to Ulf Kristersson is: Why don't you give other parents in Sweden the opportunity to hug their children good night every night?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-209	Madam President, I would like I'll start with coal power. It is not we who are now making sure that it is released more because we are phasing out local cogeneration production, Per Bolund, but it is you who are doing it. The assessment was that a further 50 000 tonnes would be released due to part of Stockholm's combined heat and power production being phased out. This is madness, I would say. That's some crazy shit. You are dismantling the stable energy sources we have, which could contribute to far-reaching electrification of Sweden – of industries and road transport. This could be a real alliance for a long-term and modern environmental policy, and you are prepared to replace it with imported, dirty electricity. It is simply bad environmental policy. When it comes to children, it is our view that Sweden needs a tight migration policy if we are to cope with the incredibly big task of integration in the coming years. Several hundred thousand people have come to Sweden, and if we now return to the rules from before 2015 and increase family immigration to Sweden, we will have serious problems.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-211	Madam President, I would like The distinction between the Moderates and the Green Party is incredibly clear here. We are making efforts to actually phase out coal power in Sweden. It is responsible; we must get away from coal and move on to renewable energy sources. We also see this in what is happening: Solar power is increasing, and wind power is being greatly expanded in Sweden. We are getting a 100% renewable energy system, but the Moderates are resisting and want to stall and delay that transition. When it comes to family reunification, the attitude of the Moderates is worrying. It is very clear that it also prevents the possibility of integration. How can I as a parent concentrate on getting a job, a security and a stable base if every minute – every second – I worry about my children's health and my wife's prosperity? This is not a reasonable way to create integration in Sweden. We must, of course, create the opportunity for families to be together. Then they have the conditions to really take the step into Swedish society. Why don't you want to give more that opportunity, Ulf Kristersson?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-213	Madam President, I would like I think it is quite clear that Sweden cannot now return to more liberal and generous rules for refugee and family immigration than the rest of Europe. I think most people in Sweden understand why. There were a lot of people coming to Sweden, and we have very big integration problems. If we now create a fundamental uncertainty regarding Swedish migration policy in the future, we will do Sweden a great disservice and make it more difficult for those who have come here to enter society. I think you are endangering something really serious if you now return to a lax Swedish migration policy, Per Bolund.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-215	Madam President, I would like In his first speech here, Stefan Löfven spoke about the folk home. So let us talk about the folks' home! I would like to say that Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats give beautiful speeches but do not understand the folk house, Madam President. Stefan Löfven quotes Per Albin, but Stefan Löfven does not understand Per Albin, Madam President. I would argue that it is no coincidence that a social system like what we called the folk home was created in Sweden. The conditions were there for this. The prerequisites for such a model of society are togetherness and community, trust, sense of duty, sense of home, citizenship, inner solidarity and more. All of this, Madam President, for decades, the Social Democracy has been working to tear down and build away. You tear down the folks' home. You set aside the very foundation for the people's home to live on. For us to be able to recreate a modern folk home in Sweden, we need to increase trust. We must increase the sense of home, the spirit of citizenship and internal solidarity. Do your duty, demand your right! Take the custom where you're going! It is simple and obvious things, but they are fundamental and important for society to stay together. We need to prioritise welfare over asylum and family migration and have a demand-based integration policy. Adapt, or live in another country!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-218	Madam President, I would like Don't even try Per Albin Hansson, Åkesson! You're as far away from what you can ever get. Your party says that Jews and Sami can't be Swedes, so don't even try to draw a parallel to Per Albin Hansson. Put it down! The Swedish Democrats have clearly placed themselves in a right-wing bloc with Moderates and Christian Democrats. You have already voted in favour of a moderate draft budget and seem prepared to do most of the work in appointing moderate mayors. That the Moderates want to cooperate with you may be questioned, but why you want to cooperate with the Moderates need no one even wonder about. It is, however, a very good declaration of goods. We have been able to see how moderate politics has played a role over eight years, with widening gaps, attacks on employees' terms and so on. I wonder what it is the Swedish Democrats think is so good about the Moderates' eight years of welfare attacks. What is it you see in front of you that is so enticing?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-220	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether it is possible for Stefan Löfven to make a single speech in this House without lying. For the sake of fact, I would like to say that the Swedish Democrats stand up for the right of the Sami minority and the Jewish minority to affirm and develop their respective cultural heritage. That's what we stand up for. What Stefan Löfven says is to assimilate these groups. We're not saying that. On the contrary – these are groups that should be allowed to live as minorities in Sweden, nothing else. When it comes to the politics of the Moderates, I am not moderate, but I am a member of the Swedish Democrats. I lead the Swedish Democrats as party leader, and I stand for the policy that we put forward. Sometimes it coincides with the policy of the Moderates, such as the view of certain taxes. But I will not stand here and defend the policy of the Moderates; let the Moderates do so.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-222	Madam President, I would like Taking responsibility does not seem to be the strong side of Åkesson. Surely you will have to take responsibility for having voted through a budget which involves huge tax cuts and which draws resources away from welfare. That's what you've done. On the other hand, I take responsibility for ensuring that we come up with a compromise, which will in itself include a tax reform in which tax cuts can be included but which takes responsibility for having long-term funding for Swedish welfare and where we also ensure that the increased gaps are reduced. It ensures that we have educational opportunities for an employee who may need to change when the company withdraws, that children, regardless of who they are, are entitled to a good schooling and that the recreation centre is open to those whose parents cannot go on a holiday abroad. Ordinary people don't go around longing for Moderate cutback politics, Jimmie Åkesson. Why do the Swedish Democrats do that?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-225	Madam President, I would like Let's talk about welfare. Stefan Löfven has now been Prime Minister for five years. He's managed to double the care queues. He's managed to continue the school breakdown. Stefan Löfven has promised us the lowest unemployment in the European Union as his main objective for the first four years. Today we are far from that goal – much longer than we were when Stefan Löfven made this promise. Again: It is easy to make beautiful speeches. It's easy to stand here and talk about how you think things should be. But the fact is, Madam President, that Stefan Löfven and the Social Democratic Government have not succeeded in any of the things that were set out to succeed. That is the reality, Madam President. I am extremely pleased that we are doing what we can to get a different order, a different policy and a different budget to govern this country than Stefan Löfven is behind.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-228	Madam President, I would like There was considerable agreement on the need for a stronger defence in Sweden. It was a strength for Sweden that, for once, everyone agreed on that very thing. But there was no agreement on the financing of the defence. The Social Democrats caused total uncertainty in the work of the Defense Committee at the eleventh hour by suddenly not wanting to fund what we otherwise agreed would be created. The Moderates, the Centers, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals refused to put up on such a charade of wish lists without coverage. I am a little surprised that the Swedish Democrats took the side of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left when it came to the view of defence policy and the defence economy.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-231	Madam President, I would like Speaking of charades, it was precisely what we saw when the previous alliance parties chose, under dramatic forms, to drop out of it instead of pursuing it. The question here concerns two things. As far as the content of the policy is concerned and the direction of the policy is concerned, we are in agreement. There is one party, namely the Swedish Democrats, which, at least in all the years we have been here, has pushed for a stronger defence and because we need a national defence capability. I am glad that even the Moderates, for example, have adopted this policy, unlike when the Moderates thought the defense was a special interest. Then we come to the question of funding. You can have a different view of it. It is possible to look for short-term medial effects in dramatic forms, as it was chosen to do. It can also be said that defence economic policy, as with other activities, is a matter for the budget. I am happy to negotiate with Ulf Kristersson on the future budget for the defence.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-235	Madam President, I would like As I said: I have no doubt that the Swedish Democrats want a stronger defence, because everyone wants that right now. That's very good. It is basically a national asset that everyone agrees that the Swedish defence will be stronger. But it is not possible to wish for a stronger defence if we are not also prepared to finance it. So we cannot say with long lists that we should do exactly this in the coming years and that the defence should prepare for it, but if there is money for this, we basically have no idea. It was therefore quite simply cowardly to present a document describing in detail what the defence should do but leaving the whole issue of funding open. That is why I am genuinely surprised that the Swedish Democrats, who want a stronger defence, are in favour of such fake funding.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-238	Madam President, I would like It surprises me that Ulf Kristersson plays in this charade. I believe that every year the Swedish Democrats have been the party that has spent the most money on defence in our budget movements. I'm not in the least worried about our funding for the defense. As I said, Madam President, I am happy to negotiate this with Ulf Kristersson and the other party leaders in this House so that we can have a majority and so that the defence can have the resources needed to build up our necessary capabilities. This issue is more complex than that. I'd like to see a stronger defense. Fortunately, that is where we now agree. Analyze our funding and the defense will receive more money than it has received before! We spend more money than the Moderates do and more than any other party does. Come to me and the defense will get more money!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-242	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have hardly made themselves known as major climate and environmentalists. We all remember how the climate was in quotation marks in one of the Swedish Democrats' budgets. Nevertheless, I was surprised when I read the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the Defence Committee. Among other things, it reads that there is no doubt that human activity has marginally increased the proportion of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. There was also a text to read: a very small number of factors, more or less known, that govern the climate, but we know very little about how the increase in carbon dioxide will affect the global climate. This is, to say the least, a strong underestimation and rejection of an almost united research community. The Swedish democrats seem to believe that the climate threat disappears if one can deny it hard enough. I would therefore like to ask Jimmie Åkesson: Do the Swedish Democrats think that human activity has only marginally increased the carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-246	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt whatsoever that climate change exists. Nor is there any doubt that human activity has affected these changes. Then I'm not the right person to talk about to what extent human activity has affected this; that's what the scientists have to argue about. If the scientists agree on one thing or the other, then that's the case. It doesn't matter to me. Nevertheless, we are pursuing a policy for a better climate. That is the interesting thing here – not what analysis you make, but what policy you pursue. When other parties, not least within the Left Liberal Alliance in this House, are pursuing an incredibly inefficient, national-centered climate policy, we are pursuing a policy that is effective, that is global and that makes a real difference to the emissions that are likely to affect the climate globally. That's the difference between us. We are not so interested in how much money is coming in, but we are interested in the impact of the money.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-250	Madam President, I would like I can answer for Jimmie Åkesson instead. Recently, the highest carbon dioxide content in the atmosphere was measured in 3 million years. Since the beginning of industrialism, the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased by 42 percent. It is not a marginal increase; it is a gigantic increase. Then cooperation is required. EU cooperation is important. After all, you have now changed your feet to be able to rule and divide EU cooperation from within. If we are to cope with the climate threat both nationally and globally, we need more cooperation. But I come back to this: Recently, you had the climate within quotation marks in your own budget. We see how the reservation in the Defence Committee says that it is only a small, marginal increase. These aren't coincidences, Jimmie Åkesson, but that's what your politicians run. Does Jimmie Åkesson consider it reasonable that you have two postures? On the one hand, you stand here and try to defend this, and on the other hand, we repeatedly come to you by writing climate-denial reasoning.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-255	Madam President, I would like I still think the last thing Annie Lööf quoted is quite clear. There is no climate denial in this. On the contrary, it points out that human activity is responsible for the climate change that is taking place, to what extent I cannot determine. But it is not important for what policy we should pursue. It is also not important whether we should continue along the road and pursue an inefficient policy with increased petrol prices, air taxes and other things that make it difficult for people living in rural areas in this country, outside Stockholm's tolls, or whether we should change the policy so that we can pursue a globally effective climate policy without impoverishing the Swedish countryside and sparsely populated areas. That is the difference, Madam President, between me, Annie Lööf and the other left-wing liberal alliance here in the Swedish Parliament.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-258	Madam President, I would like Jimmie Åkesson! The Swedish Democrats ensured that the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats for this year went through with its major effects on the functioning of Swedish society. The big investment goes to reduced taxes for those who earn the most. Many of the equality reforms that the Left Party achieved during the last parliamentary term are being removed, not least many reforms aimed at children. One of the efforts that we had made, which is now not being completed, is two annual billion for higher staff density in elderly care. This initiative would have meant that more people had worked at our retirement homes. It would have meant more time for the elderly. It would have made it easier to switch to the full - time right. It is difficult to do when there is a shortage of staff, and there are bad schedules. Why, Jimmie Åkesson, is it important for the Swedish Democrats not to continue this effort on elderly care, on those who need it and those who work there?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-262	Madam President, I would like Let me just remind you, Madam President, Jonas Sjöstedt and the rest of the Swedish Parliament that it was, after all, Jonas Sjöstedt who made sure that Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats re-enter government. It is a government that now lowers the tax on the richest, with Jonas Sjöstedt's good memory, by abolishing the military tax, by introducing market rents and so on. So it is quite a big stone that is thrown into a rather large glass house, if you put it that way, Madam President. After all, Jonas Sjöstedt knows that it works so that one cannot select individual items from a budget. I would argue that the budget that went through here last autumn was considerably better than the budget that came from the government, for various reasons. We also presented our own budget. In it there was tremendous investment in, not least, the elderly in our society, such as reduced taxes on the elderly, increased guarantee pensions and, of course, also investments in care.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-264	Madam President, I would like Jimmie Åkesson is the image of a sharpened professional politician who refuses to take responsibility for her own actions. It was your button-pressing vote in favour of this budget that meant the disappearance of the two additional billions to care for the elderly, which are so much needed for those who work there and for those who need care for the elderly. It is the immediate responsibility of the Swedish Democrats that it works worse in many retirement homes in Sweden. Jimmie Åkesson has no answer to that. He says: we put forward another fake budget that nobody cared about, and then we voted in favour of this budget that becomes a reality. That won't hold, Jimmie Åkesson. I voted to retain a better tax profile than that in your budget. I will vote against the defence tax and against all right-wing politics. But the Swedish democrats are responsible for cuts in Swedish care for the elderly. Take that responsibility!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-267	Madam President, I would like Without inciting me in the same way as Jonas Sjöstedt, I would just like to say that Jonas Sjöstedt is responsible for the fact that we have a social democratic government that removes the defence tax and introduces market rents.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-268	Madam President, I would like I would like to talk to Jimmie Åkesson about the power of words and what are well-chosen words and not. In Svalöv, Jimmie Åkesson's party partner has recently been elected Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board. His name is Teddy Nilsson. Teddy has some comments on what are well-chosen words. For example, he thinks it is well-chosen words to call Annie Lööf, who sits in this Chamber, a traitor. Teddy has also proposed banning the Pride flag, or the exclusion flag, which he thinks is a more well-chosen word. When Teddy is asked about what he has written, he says: It is written words. I don't think that's gonna hurt anyone. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is then: Do you think Teddy Nilsson is a elected representative who uses well-chosen words?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-271	Madam President, I would like I believe that at some point all politicians can use words that they regret afterwards. I think it applies to Per Bolund, and I think it applies to almost everyone here if you have any self-criticism whatsoever. And I think that also applies to Teddy Nilsson in Svalöv. I am not more familiar with everything he has said over the years as a politician. But what I can see is that the claim that the Pride flag should be banned is not true; it is a discussion about whether the municipality should use the Pride flag or other political symbols, for example, at its official flag. That's what he's been opposed to. I do not think that is an unreasonable approach. More municipalities in Sweden have exactly that attitude. On the contrary, I think it is a rather responsible approach. Then I have no problem with the Pride flag. Anyone gets a flag with it if you want it to. But perhaps they should not be political symbols at the municipality's official flag.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-275	Madam President, I would like This grip uses Jimmie Åkesson often, that everyone does well wrong sometimes. But it is quite obvious to all who follow Swedish politics that it is a party that stands out when it comes to expressing itself recklessly, sometimes racistly, and sometimes using concepts that create a lot of tension and friction in our society, and it is the Swedish Democrats. We must also take responsibility for this as party leaders. I would also like to ask a question, as Annie Lööf did earlier, about the climate. Recently there were elections to Folketinget in Denmark. For Jimmie Åkesson's party colleagues in the Danish People's Party on the other side of the Sound, it did not go so well, even though Jimmie Åkesson even wrote a letter to the Danish voters and urged them to do so at DF. But it obviously didn't work. At least the founder of the Danish People's Party Pia Kj 中r sgaard had his picture clear of the result. It was because of what she called the climate lobes. And the leader of the Danish People's Party chose in the final debate to say: The more I fly, the better for the environment. Even there I would like to ask Jimmie Åkesson: Are these well-chosen words?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-280	Madam President, I would like There was a very long chain of associations here. We can first of all note that people's environmental commitment is increasing, at least in Sweden and certainly also in Denmark. Per Bolund said that earlier in his speech here. We can also note that support for the Green Party is decreasing. You might wonder why that is. Could it be because the Green Party's climate and environmental policy is out of date, that the Green Party's climate and environmental policy goes out on ordinary people, that the Green Party is a party for elites in the larger cities who do not understand ordinary people's conditions in rural and sparsely populated areas? As much as possible is made difficult for those people, for you simply do not understand that that is exactly what you are doing. Could that be why the Green Party is doing so badly? Madam President, I would like I think that is why the Green Party is doing so badly.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-284	Before the next speaker, I would like to welcome the President of Armenia with delegation to the House.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-285	Madam President, I would like This year it is 100 years since universal suffrage was voted through in Sweden. It was 100 years ago that men and women had the same opportunity to influence Swedish society – a big change then, a given today for most of us but not for everyone. Although we write 2019 in the calendar, women's rights are still not as obvious as men's. The lack of equality is something we must continue to work with, tirelessly. Being a force for equality is about rolling up the sleeves and working in both words and actions for women's right to self-determination, the right to their own body and the right to security. The insecurity that many women suffer today is devastating. More than one in three young women suffered a sexual crime during the past year. Last year, the Women's Council received over a hundred calls a day. It's a call every 15 minutes. When I meet women's shelters, big words and more theorizing are not called for, but concrete action in the form of money so that children in vulnerable families can get a first summer vacation without seeing their mother being abused. With the participation of the Center Party in the January agreement, this is exactly what is happening. We focus on women's safety. More resources are now being invested in increased security and gender equality throughout the country. In the spring budget, the country's women's and girls' shelters receive a supplement of SEK 40 million. It is an additional mid-term service for each women's shelter each year. The important work against honour-related violence is reinforced by another 45 million. We also invest SEK 45 million more in combating violence in close relationships, in order to increase protection and support for victims of violence and women and to spread knowledge through the National Centre for Women's Peace. This is money that makes a difference, which helps to create security for women and makes Sweden more equal.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-290	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf often mentions rural areas and rural conditions in her speeches and in various debates. That's good. Yesterday I googled a little fast on the Lööf and got some statements. In her summer speech on August 6, 2014, Annie Lööf said: If the Social Democrats win the election, taxes on petrol, tourism and transport will be raised in shock. In Today's industry in July 2016, she said: No increased taxes on petrol. Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf and the Center Party are now contributing to the fact that the left-wing liberal alliance in the Swedish parliament is raising the tax on petrol so that the price of petrol is at unprecedented levels. Is Annie Lööf happy with that?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-292	Madam President, I would like That's not true. The budget valid this year is the Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget, which won a hand in December when the Swedish Democrats supported it. This means that the petrol tax is listed in two different indices, an index that is still valid and an index that was paused. The tax increase on petrol and diesel made this year is therefore a result of the budget voted by the Swedish Democrats in December. In the spring budget that the Center Party supported and voted in favour of, there are no further tax increases. It is therefore Jimmie Åkesson's own tax increases that are now being debated around the country. For the Center Party, it is important to ensure that rural populations are not allowed to bear additional burdens in order to increase various forms of climate and environmental taxes. We will be the voice of the countryside. We think it is important to reduce taxes on jobs and businesses, not least in rural areas. That is why our budget includes such tax cuts.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-295	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf is the leader of the Center Party, and the Center Party is part of the left-wing liberal alliance in the Swedish Parliament that forms the basis of the Social Democratic Government. This government has clearly announced its intention to reintroduce the so-called over-indexation of the price of petrol. Am I supposed to interpret what Annie Lööf is saying as she's not going to let through such a budget? Is that how I'm supposed to interpret what Annie Lööf says here?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-297	Madam President, I would like It is no secret that the Center Party is opposed to overindexing. We have been for many years. But back to the facts, and what's interesting is action. The increase in petrol taxation that has taken place automatically this year has nothing to do with our budget, but it goes back to the M-KD budget voted by the Swedish Democrats in December. It contains the normal indexation that has been in force for decades in Sweden. The overindexation was paused, but the normal indexation is fixed. It is action, also from the members of the Swedish Democrats in this House. The Center Party has not contributed to further increases in petrol and diesel taxes this year.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-300	Madam President and Annie Lööf! The Center Party is part of more local rulers in Sweden than any other party. Center parties around Sweden are now giving information about the budget for the future, and these are cuts. There are cuts in preschool, school and care for the elderly. Center party municipalities such as Mora, Kristinehamn, Kungälv and Tjörn are doing serious reductions in the school area. This means less support for pupils who need special support, and it means larger classes. This is a direct effect of economic policy on the national level because the Center Party allows the tax cuts in the budget to remain and does not add the money to the welfare that the welfare needs. What is Annie Lööf's message to the preschool teachers and teachers who are now in a worse working situation because of the Center Party's policy in parliament?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-304	Madam President, I would like It is true that the Center Party is involved in 19 out of 21 regions and 7 out of 10 municipalities. It is a responsibility that we bear in order to strengthen and safeguard the welfare of the whole country. However, we have not yet voted for a state budget, but such a state budget is now being negotiated and will be presented to the House in the autumn. The economic policy that has been in place for the last four years is the economic policy of the Left Party. They are the impact of what we now see around municipalities and regions. If we are to strengthen welfare and get more resources for welfare, it is about getting more tax revenue. Then we must have more companies that dare to hire and more people who are in jobs and paying taxes. Money does not fall from the sky but has to be paid in by people who work and run businesses. This is the only way we can ensure that welfare receives resources in addition to the general support for municipalities and county councils that we will provide in the coming years.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-307	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf does not want to take responsibility for the very heavy-handed policy of cutbacks that the party pursues at both national and local level. You have tabled a spring amending budget. You could have adjusted the current budget, but you chose not to. You are responsible for how the budget is managed now. The next step is that you want to remove the defense tax for those who earn by far the most. Men in big cities in particular are the winners of economic policy. The bill is sent to Sweden's regions and municipalities. They raise taxes, and these tax increases hit low-income earners harder because there is no progressivity. The municipalities are making dramatic reductions in welfare areas. There is no escape from the fact that the Center Party is responsible for this today and for what is happening next year, and you are putting tax cuts on rich men in big cities before preschool, school and care for the elderly.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-310	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that the Center Party should take responsibility now and in the coming years, not least because the irresponsibility of the Left Party's economic policy has been in force in Sweden in recent years. How are the breaks in the care of the elderly prepared by free bus cards in the summer to young people? How did people in need of respiratory help and probe feeding get more resources from the Left Party sitting on its hands during the last parliamentary term when there was budget cooperation and the rules deteriorated? In the spring budget that we presented, we took responsibility. We added resources to the LSS, and we made sure that the school got more resources. We will continue to ensure that more people are put into work and that taxes are reduced to make it possible. We will also invest in general support for the municipalities so that not least the small rural municipalities are strengthened – i.e. the municipalities that did not have the opportunity to apply for all the targeted state aid that Jonas Sjöstedt played with during the last term of office.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-313	Madam President, I would like Of the 73 points underlying government cooperation, only 2 concern elderly care. The only thing that is said about employees is that they should get free work clothes. It's good, but in our opinion it's a little lean. The Christian Democrats are proposing a pot of 2 billion to make life easier for the elderly's employees. These professions are usually heavy and always low-paid, and the rates of sick leave are sky high among the women who work there – the number of women who work there is by far the highest. We therefore want to support municipalities that reduce the number of shared tours, reduce staff turnover, make employees more satisfied and involved and the elderly more secure.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-316	Madam President, I would like It's there. Many of the points are precisely about us throwing Ilmar Reepalus' investigation into the trash and making it possible to continue conducting stand-alone alternatives. With the Center Party entering and taking responsibility, we maintain freedom of choice and develop it. This means that all the nurses, nurses and nurses working in the private care of the elderly around the country are given the opportunity to keep the job and conduct a very important and good business. Then we will also reduce the targeted state subsidies. When I listen to my municipal representatives, I am told that the small rural municipalities do not have the opportunity to apply for this money, but go to the larger cities instead. We are turning targeted state aid into general state aid to municipalities and regions so that they can invest in welfare and care. We think it is important, because then the money will also be allocated to smaller rural municipalities.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-318	Madam President, I would like Several of the parts that Annie Lööf lifts up here are very good, not least the protection of the will and power of the private actors. For that, the Center Party will have a great credit. However, I do not hear any concrete proposals which could improve the situation of staff in care for the elderly. We know that targeted state subsidies are often used for completely different purposes. That is why we have to steer concretely. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the issue of the lack of retirement homes. It is estimated that 32 000 retirement homes will be missing in 2026. Our proposal is to support municipalities that build enough retirement homes and distribute the periodic penalty payments to municipalities that prioritise other things. The situation is so serious that we really need to ensure that municipalities prioritise older people over things that are fun. Therefore, I still wonder: What is the Center Party's plan? Can Annie Lööf mention a reform that exists to meet the retirement home shortage?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-320	Madam President, I would like Yes, all the billions that we will invest in the coming years in the form of just general support for municipalities and county councils. When I talk to all my councillors, and there are many of them around the country, they are very clear that they do not want to see small, targeted support, because they do not have the opportunity to seek these and are therefore without money. They say: Instead, use the money in the targeted subsidies to give us general support! This also enables the smaller municipalities to be involved in strengthening care for the elderly, preschool, school or whatever you need to invest in. So we need less targeted and more generally so that we can really ensure that there is a secure well-being throughout the country.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-322	Madam President, I would like Then I might as well stop sorting garbage. The quote comes from Anita Gullbert who has a small house outside Lysekil right near Preem's refinery. She will notice right outside her door if Preem gets permission to expand the business next n to double and thus also increase its greenhouse gas emissions almost double and become Sweden's by far the largest emitter of the gases that destroy the earth's climate. This, exactly this, shows the government's dilemma on the climate issue. There is a popular movement, as Per Bolund has rightly pointed out. People fly less, choose different diets, and set solar panels up on the roof. That's excellent. But how will those people react if, at the same time, the Preem refinery is authorised to almost double its emissions? Maybe they'll stop sorting garbage. They may realize that it will not help if the big ones continue to destroy the climate. There are more absolute issues for the credibility of the government's climate policy. Will the plans to expand Arlanda to double capacity be taken seriously? I can't. It cannot be reconciled with a credible climate policy. Will the plans be completed to start building an LNG terminal in Gothenburg and building us into fossil fuels? It's not working either. Will the infrastructure money needed for the railway be spent on building a new, large motorway south of Stockholm, i.e. Cross-connection Södertörn? The government's credibility is determined by climate policy. If you really want to get people to continue setting up solar panels and choosing the right ones, you also have to do the right thing in the big decisions. There I expect a clear tightening of government policy. Climate policy must be linked – from small to large.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-326	Madam President, I would like One of the most important tasks of the policy is to enable more people born abroad, especially women, to enter the labour market. A centre proposal that has become a reality is the RUT deduction. Today, four out of ten RUT entrepreneurs are born abroad. Half of those who run the companies are women. Jobs that have previously been black, insecure and without insurance and pension points have turned white. Last week, a study was set up to propose how a successful reform can be even better by extending the deduction to more services and raising the ceiling further. This will lead to more, often women born abroad, being able to get a job to go to. Sjöstedt wants something else. His policy allows women who run companies to close down and women who work in those companies to become unemployed. My questions to Jonas Sjöstedt are therefore: What does the Left Party really have against women who run companies and work? Why does the Left Party want to abolish the RUT reform that has been so successful in creating jobs for new arrivals?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-329	Madam President, I would like I'll be happy to answer Annie Lööf's questions. Using corresponding resources to expand, for example, care for the elderly, home care and cleaning in schools will create more and more secure jobs. It is therefore a better reform to create more jobs. Moreover, jobs will be distributed more fairly, because not least an increased ceiling or RUT grant for security companies, which is now being proposed, is something that goes with precision to society's most prosperous cities. That is the policy of the Center Party these days. So we have a policy that both creates more jobs – safer jobs – and means a more equitable distribution policy than unilaterally investing in subsidising the consumption of rich people that they can afford to pay for themselves.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-332	Madam President, I would like A socialist never denies himself. It is intended to close down functioning private companies and expand the public sector. The main dividing line in the labour market is not between those who have high or low wages, as it usually sounds, but between those who have a job and those who do not. The policy of the Left Party leads to more people living on subsidies. The policy of the Center Party leads to more people actually being allowed to contribute by having a job to go to. RUT companies have created a lot of jobs for people without longer education – often women born abroad. The new extension of the RUT is therefore a good thing, because it allows jobs for those who are currently unemployed to be created in more areas. It also makes it possible for us to have more resources for our common well-being. But the Left Party is still ideologically opposed to the RUT deduction. In fact, it makes no sense. What in the RUT deduction does Sjöstedt find so provocative that he wants to make these women unemployed?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-336	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf is factually mistaken. When the Left Party was in charge, employment increased, unemployment fell and we had record years in terms of state finances. That is the economic policy of the Left Party. Now, on the other hand, there is a lack of money because it makes unfunded tax cuts for the rich. What, then, should be done in a time of financial scarcity? Are there reasonable working conditions to be ensured in preschools and in retirement homes? Should we ensure that those who carry out vital tasks in health care receive more resources? Or should we raise a roof so that those who already have housekeeping can have a little more cleaning? Are we going to introduce support for security companies that can walk around the rich's villas at the same time as the recreation centres are being shut down in the suburbs of the poor? That's where we get a divorce. I'm a socialist. Annie Lööf is a liberal market, as I see it. I believe in a policy that benefits fairly and supports people wherever they live in Sweden, not only in Sweden's richest neighbourhoods.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-339	Madam President, I would like Now all party leaders have had time to speak. Unfortunately, I didn't hear anyone else link a holistic approach to healthcare. That is why I would like to return to one of what I said in my first speech. Health care is therefore one of the most basic public services we have. When it does not work or is not given in time, it is a fundamental part of the welfare that is lacking. We Christian Democrats do not doubt for a second that competence exists in Swedish health care. On the contrary, we know that it is high. Nor do we doubt the intention of our political opponents in this House. None of us believe that the problem of health care is the result of political malice. But there are shortcomings – shortcomings in the way care is organised and shortcomings in political leadership that create an unwillingness to challenge old patterns. There is a lack of competence and analysis in identifying what the problems actually are. Although healthcare is expensive and must be allowed to be expensive, Swedish healthcare suffers from problems that are not primarily due to money but to politics. Here comes the values. The Christian Democrats' values forbid us to turn a blind eye to the problems of health care and the suffering they cause. Medical queues are not a natural law. Many countries are able to deliver healthcare when needed. Germany can do it, as can France, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Belgium. How can you lead the country and stand in this House and accept that other countries are so much better than we are when it comes to the most basic of welfare? Madam President, I would like Today I am hoping for a real debate on health care, preferably now that I am going to be grilled by my colleagues in here.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-346	Madam President, I would like We're not gonna grill, but there's a lot for Ebba Busch Thor to explain. One thing the Christian Democrats have to explain is their attitude towards the right to abortion and women's right to their own body. When the media examined before the European elections how the Vice-President of the party had voted in that particular Parliament when it came to standing up for the right to abortion, the party stood completely unanswered. The Vice-President himself did not want to answer questions, the top candidate was upset, and Ebba Busch Thor questioned the independence of the media. At the same time, Ebba Busch Thor himself argues that midwives in Sweden should be allowed to refuse abortions. Then I would like to ask what other tasks, rules and laws Ebba Busch Thor believes can be abandoned for religious reasons.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-349	Madam President, I would like Does the Prime Minister seriously mean that he has not heard our answer to these questions? How unworthy! We are behind Swedish abortion legislation and have done so for 30 years. We do not have any proposals to change it at all, but we do not think that this is an issue on which the European Union should decide. We are not prepared to negotiate the Swedish right to abortion with countries such as Malta or Poland, for example. Freedom of conscience is not a Christian-democratic invention. It is included in Article 9 of the ECHR and in Article 18 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. These are all kinds of professions, such as journalists. A journalist shall not be required to perform tasks that are humiliating or contrary to his or her convictions. This is not something we have decided on in the Swedish Parliament, but it is regulated by journalists' collective agreements. The issue of freedom of conscience does not require a change of law. It can be solved, solved and solved in the workplace, even if there are any problems at all.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-353	Madam President, I would like It is no wonder that it becomes ambiguous for the Christian Democrats. One cannot say, on the one hand, that you stand up for the right to abortion and then vote contrary to Parliament's 22g regret. There is no mistake: 22 votes against! A resolution was voted against stating that a ten-year-old girl who has been raped should have the right to an abortion. It voted against the Christian Democrats. It's unworthy! Then it is strange to think that midwives should be allowed to refuse abortions. If the purpose is not to question the right to abortion but something else, then the ultimate question arises: Where is the limit? Should health professionals also be allowed to refuse blood transfusions or vaccinations? Should police officers refuse to interfere with child abuse if they think it's right? Can teachers refuse to teach evolution? Where's the line, Ebba Busch Thor?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-355	Madam President, I would like It really makes me very unhappy to hear a prime minister for a country like Sweden have such poor knowledge of the human rights declarations that Sweden is behind. Freedom of conscience is not about any of the points raised by the Prime Minister here. That is clearly stipulated. It's not something we made up. Again, the Social Democrats devoted an electoral movement to warning against populism and untruths. Is there not somewhere a nagging suspicion that the Social Democrats themselves are becoming part of the problem when Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister pretends that he does not understand the difference when it comes to where decisions are to be made? We have voted in favour of condemning the rape of ten-year-old girls in Paraguay. I think she should have had the opportunity to have an abortion if she had wanted to. That is how we voted – so, and not in any other way. The Prime Minister knows that very well.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-358	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to highlight the issue of women's right to self-determination and the right to their own body. In recent weeks, there have been questions about the KD's attitude to the right of women to their own body. I would therefore like to ask Ebba Busch Thor to clarify the position of the KD. In an interview a few weeks ago, KD's deputy party leader, Lars Adaktusson, said that he wanted to open up for discussion when the limits are compatible with the late abortions. As you know, KD also wants midwives to have the right to refuse abortions but to keep their jobs. The introduction of a right for health professionals to refuse care, that is to say, to deny women care to which they are legally entitled, is used in several countries as a means of restricting the right to abortion by the back door. I would therefore like to ask Ebba Busch Thor: what do the Christian Democrats want the discussion on the limits of late abortions to lead to? And how can a right for healthcare professionals to refuse to give women the care they are legally entitled to stand behind Swedish abortion legislation?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-362	Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone has missed the fact that many of the health professionals have alerted us about a situation in which abortions have been allowed to enter the weekly limits when we actually do not allow abortion in Sweden. Just a few years ago, we allowed abortions in week 26. Today we are soul-happy when a small life born too early in week 26 actually survives. That is why we have an abortion law based on the profession making assessments of when one needs to ensure that there is no overlap in the time when we allow and allow abortion in Sweden and the time when we can save lives. That is what Swedish abortion legislation looks like. That is the basic principle that we want to safeguard, that is, the principle of viability. That's what we're behind. We do not have any proposals to amend Swedish abortion legislation. We've been behind it for 30 years. It's crystal clear.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-365	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch Thor here described how the Swedish law is designed: The limit is moved up if medical progress is made. That is why the Christian Democrats' discussion seems strange, and one wonders what the debate articles that Lars Adaktusson, Ebba Busch Thor and others have actually written for purposes. We see what the Swedish legislation is all about. Let me return to the issue of freedom of conscience. Currently, healthcare professionals in many European countries are allowed to deny patients care on the basis of their own moral convictions. In Italy, for example, 70 percent of gynecologists refuse abortion. Such a right limits women's right to abortion, which is statutory here in Sweden. Women are therefore not treated with respect and dignity. This risks causing anxiety in many of the women who are already in a difficult, emotional situation prior to meeting the midwife. I would therefore like to ask again: what is it like to stand behind Swedish abortion legislation when, at the same time, the question of the right of midwives to refuse abortions?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-368	Madam President, I would like I think Annie Lööf basically understood the answer to her previous question. In the second part, I come back to the same thing. We have no proposals to change any legislation in Sweden. However, this must be resolved in the workplace, just as has happened with regard to the solution of freedom of conscience for journalists. We will under no circumstances contribute to a development in which women who want to end their pregnancy themselves will be blamed for it. We have had enough of it in Sweden. This applies both to women who have fallen into debt because, despite a difficult economic or social situation, they have wanted to pursue a pregnancy and to women who have been blamed for not wanting to complete a pregnancy. This is our position, and this is what we are defending and will continue to protect. We are not against free journalism just because we are in favour of the journalists' corps being able to sign freedom of conscience agreements, which they already have in their collective agreements today. The same should apply to midwives.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-371	Madam President and Ebba Busch Thor! The international movement that wants to limit women's right to control their bodies and reduce the right to abortion has partially changed strategy in recent years. Today, a refusal to care is being pushed forward. What is called freedom of conscience in Christian Democrats is what should apply. Healthcare professionals should not be required to perform normal tasks, for example, perform an abortion in accordance with applicable legislation. That is what the tactics look like to maintain resistance to abortion. I have here with me one of the Christian Democrats' movements from last year, which is about being able to refuse care in Sweden. You don't have the straightness to say that it should be done by a parliamentary decision. Instead, this is passed on to the regions that are to decide whether or not to allow staff to refuse care. Basically, however, it is about the right to abortion. I have a simple and very straight question for Ebba Busch Thor. Does Ebba Busch Thor think that Swedish midwives should be able to refuse abortions?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-374	Madam President, I would like I do not think we are dealing with this issue with the dignity it deserves. Jonas Sjöstedt knows that we are behind Swedish abortion law. Jonas Sjöstedt knows that I believe that there is no sustainable order other than that the woman should be allowed to decide for herself whether she wants to complete or end a pregnancy. We need to have a medical system that's rigged like this. You speak here as if this were a Christian Democratic invention, that we should have invented a new word. In response to the rather infantile question I was asked, I put a counter-question: is the Left Party no longer behind Article 18 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights, which speaks of freedom of conscience and which applies to all professions? Is the Left Party no longer behind Article 9 of the ECHR?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-376	Madam President, I would like I asked a straight question that touches on the essence of what we are discussing. My question was whether Swedish healthcare professionals should be able to refuse abortions. In practice, this would be a step towards limiting the possibility of having an abortion in Sweden. Ebba Busch Thor does not want to answer this question. I think Ebba Busch Thor owes the voters the answer: yes, she wants people to be able to refuse to carry out this task. Or: No, Swedish abortion rights should not be curtailed, even in this way. The very lack of answers seems to me to be deeply worrying. The Christian Democrats are trying to say two things at the same time. We want both a policy that can limit the right to abortion and then we do not want to stand for it in the public debate. You must clarify this, Ebba Busch Thor. My answer is crystal clear: No, I am not prepared in any way to restrict the right to abortion in Sweden. I support the current legislation.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-380	Madam President, I would like My answer is the same. I am not prepared in any way to restrict the right to abortion in Sweden. I support the current legislation on abortion and will do everything I can to ensure that it is enforced. It's crystal clear.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-381	Madam President, I would like I often try to think positively and see good things where it is sometimes difficult to find some. I have found a good thing about the budget that the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats agreed on in the Riksdag. It is that it became very clear to the voters what huge dividing lines exist in Swedish politics. The most obvious of all is in environmental and climate policy. One consequence of the budget that the Christian Democrats pushed through is that much of what the UN Secretary-General and the world's environmental movements have said has been cut off is the world's best climate policy. For the Green Party, the environment is something you invest in. For the Christian Democrats it seems to be something you save money on. Now, however, we have managed to change this. We've been able to cancel the environmental slaughter. The airline tax will remain. More nature will be protected. Support for charging poles remains. There has now been a major climate debate in society. My question to Ebba Busch Thor is: would the Christian Democrats do the same thing again? Would you vote in favour of a budget which is financed by means of reduced environmental spending?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-385	Madam President, I would like Of course, I would once again be in favour of efforts to reduce emissions in the first place, and not just of how much money we spend on different parts. In fact, we made the second biggest budget effort on environmental and climate issues in Sweden's history, despite the fact that we removed several of the Green Party's so-called "goodies bags". Although they looked good, they had very little effect on reducing emissions. On the contrary, they meant that during the time of the red-greens we were given a partial increase in emissions. We made further efforts on environmental research, on cleaning water, on improving the situation of the seas and on increasing climate aid, on a point-by-point basis. We will make efforts for the climate that makes a difference, not things that look good or sound good. That's the difference between our two parties.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-387	Madam President, I would like I think the voters are wise enough to see whether this is a reduction or not. Compared with the budget options, it becomes clear that there is less money for environmental and climate investments in the budget that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, supported by the Swedish Democrats, pushed through in the Swedish Parliament. I do not think we should try to confuse the debate. We shouldn't hide what we're actually doing. You can talk about efficiency as much as you want. However, your budget was not a budget that gave more efficiency; it was a budget that gave less environmental policy. That is something to stand up for and tell the voters. The budget will increase emissions. We know that the investments we make have a climate effect. They mean that we can convert Sweden to fossil freedom. Less money in the budget, as has unfortunately now been the case, will make the journey more difficult. I am pleased that we have managed to correct a great deal of the mistakes made in the budget that the Christian Democrats had together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. However, I think that we should have higher ambitions, and so should the Christian Democrats.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-391	Madam President, I would like Per Bolund should be careful with his words. It was the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' budget. It was supported by the Swedish Democrats, but we did not put it together. Let me draw a parallel to health care, because nobody seems to be interested in talking about the 83 000 patients who have not received treatment on time. Göran Persson poured billions of dollars into Swedish healthcare. Yet the care queues ran out. Then Göran Hägglund came with a queue billion, and he hijacked the care queues immediately. Now, money has again been spent on health care, and it has succeeded in doubling the healthcare queues. We know that they will fall again this summer. The same applies to environmental and climate issues. You have to make the right effort. You have been criticized on point-by-point by the Konjunkturinstitutet and many others for making inefficient efforts. I want to make sure we get emissions down real. Then we do not need symbolic measures, but then we need real reforms.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-394	Madam President, I would like In my last speech by this speaker's chair as leader of the party, I would particularly like to address my fellow party leaders and thank them for the cooperation we have and have had. There is a lot in the word a lot of cooperation. When we debate with each other, no one really feels that we are cooperating, but it is a form of cooperation, one has to say. Many times I have met people, TV viewers and others who ask: Can you socialize naturally alongside the debates, or do you always have a different line with each other? This is not the case, but we have a collegial approach between party leaders. In addition to debates, we can hang out and ask what it was like this weekend and everything. All of that is important. We meet in many other contexts. When important decisions are to be made, we get in touch and talk to each other. That's how it's supposed to work. The contacts you get are very valuable in many contexts. The debates become more relaxed than they would otherwise be, and the times when the Swedish state really has to make serious and difficult decisions, there is also a confidence and trust between the people who are going to make the decisions. It's important, I think. I really want to thank you. It will be a while before the rest of you come up in 39 party leaders' debates in Parliament. You'll have to figure out when it is. For some, it will be a while. Thank you very much! I would also like to take this opportunity to address your representatives as party leaders in the respective parties. I would like to thank you very much for the cooperation we have had in the party leadership circle during this time.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-399	Madam President, I would like Of course, in Jan Björklund's last party leader debate here in Parliament, I would like to express my warm thanks for the cooperation that Jan Björklund himself talked about. I can confirm what was said. It is important for the public to understand that there is cooperation here. Surely we have not always been in agreement in the debates, and the changes in the lines have sometimes been tough. But I can say that Jan Björklund often makes me smile in a way that I don't think any other colleague can handle. It's been snails. It's been aliens. It's been yours. I think I am speaking on behalf of the whole House when I say that we are in danger of having somewhat more boring debates without Jan Björklund. But it is of course much more – Jan Björklund leaves behind a much greater political legacy than debate lines. He has always had the courage to stand up for his own views and those of the Liberals, even when it has been uncomfortable. You have a commitment, Jan Björklund, not least for the Swedish school and for the fight against honour oppression and against the Nazi ideology from which your mother fled during the Second World War. Now you have more time with your beloved family. You'll also have more time for the Armed Forces, I understand. For this to be possible, I want to hand over a wilderness package to support. We hope there will be plenty of sunshine and nice weather. But sometimes it rains from below. You're supposed to make a fire with wet wood. The tent's blowing. The ants are coming into the food. Then you have to think: Oh, these wonderful, wonderful moments of life! We want to make things easier for you, Jan Björklund. Thank you very much.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-404	Madam President, I would like I thank Stefan Löfven. I have really appreciated the collaboration with Stefan Löfven, which we have had different phases in. The first time we met, I think, was when we campaigned together for a yes to the euro – not the latest, but 20 years ago, so to speak. Then it was energy policy when Stefan Löfven was chairman of IF Metall. I'll tell you about an occasion I remember. The Free School Committee was in a way one of the most politically dramatic investigations we had set up in Sweden, because the ideological divides had been so great for so many years. We set up an investigation to see if it could be agreed. When the investigation went down, Stefan Löfven and I met in a room and found the solutions needed to achieve a very broad consensus. Then additional water has run under the bridges, but that's how we solved it then. As party leaders, of course, conflicts are taken when necessary, but responsibility and cooperation are also taken when necessary. The January agreement has undoubtedly put a strain on my party. It's been done in front of an open curtain, so everyone knows it. I know that it also puts pressure on Stefan Lövven's party, where many are critical of the content of the agreement. We may be happier about the content than Stefan Lövven's own party is. I would like to thank you for the cooperation we have had over the years. Thank you very much.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-409	Madam President, I would like I thought the Prime Minister had promised a little more money for the defense, now that Jan Björklund will serve this summer.
i-0b19daceff211663-0	That's how I understood it. ) Jan! We and our two parties have often felt the same. We and our two parties have not always felt the same, either in government or about which government Sweden should have. But I really like you as a person. You're a rapper. You're fast. You're funny. And yet you're serious. You're all yourself, I'd say. There should be more. You have a quality that even more people should have: You know the difference between the thing and the person. You can think of one thing politically without letting your judgment on people go out. It is a unique and unusual but important quality of politics. I and a lot of people with me have appreciated it in you. You will receive three books that will help you in transit to your new existence. You'll get Bodil Jönsson's new, plenty of time. You will get Patrik Hadenius Paus – The art of doing something else. And then, when the community building spirit still beats you as the politician you are, you will read Lena Andersson's fantastic story about the folk home, Svea's son. Thank you, Jan, for all the cooperation and counterwork over the years!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-413	Madam President, I would like I thank Ulf Kristersson. Perhaps it is the case that it separates a few years between us. But we were in the youth unions about the same time. We were in municipal politics about the same time. We worked together in the government. We have been followed together, now also in the Riksdag as party leader. I have always appreciated the cooperation with you, Ulf Kristersson. You are both ideological and practical at the same time. Not least when it stormed around social security systems when we were in alliance government, it was a great security, I thought, to have you as Minister of Social Security. Thank you very much for your cooperation these years!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-415	Madam President, I would like I usually hear in interviews that I'm the party leader who's been the longest, and that's actually true. I have. But I'm not the one who's been the longest in parliament. I had a five - year period outside this congregation. This means that I have not yet come up in those 39 party leaders' debates. But maybe I'll get there. I promise I will contact Jan Björklund on the day I beat this supposed record. We haven't worked together much, me and Jan Björklund. You can't say that. However, we have fought a lot with each other, not least during the recent EU election campaign, when we visited some places in Sweden and discussed the EU. What struck me then and that has really hit me during the whole time when Jan Björklund has been the leader of the party is that he is ideologically driven for real. Jan Björklund is not a populist. I appreciate that. I have appreciated the debates we have had that have been at that level. I also believe that those who have seen those debates have appreciated it. Madam President, I would like I can't really say that Jan Björklund has been a role model for me either. But at the end I still felt that I got some inspiration from Jan Björklund in terms of clothes. He has now devoted at least two whale movements to walking around in the same shirt, it has been called. Then he sold a shirt, but still came back in the same shirt. I don't know if it was the same. Today I note that Jan Björklund is not wearing that shirt. Maybe he sold it again, I don't know. If it is that he has done so, I thought that the short breakdown I had in trying to look like Jan Björklund now ends. I brought you a new shirt. You wear it a lot better than I do, that's all. I've also signed it with today's date. You'll have it with you.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-420	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmie Åkesson! It's been like Jimmie Åkesson said here. SD's entry was handled in a rather complicated way from the beginning of the parties. All parties have had to think about how relationships should be handled. From the beginning, the debate did not even take place. I reacted to that. I received criticism now that I invited Jimmie Åkesson to debates in the EU election movement. Should we really take the debate with them and highlight them? As Jimmie Åkesson himself said, we have no cooperation in politics. But working together by debating with each other and taking the debate, that is what you should do. I very much appreciate the debates we had here. It became a factual tone ideologically. It also makes it easier to debate when you have two completely different views. It'll be very clear. You don't have to construct differences, they're there. I'd like to pay tribute to Jimmie Åkesson. It is clear that the success of Sweden's democrats depends on politics and political winds that blow over the Western world. But I think they are also due to Jimmie Åkesson personally and the qualities Jimmie Åkesson has. That's a confession I'd like to give.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-425	Madam President, I would like Education is the nation's cheapest defense. That is what the conservative statesman, Edmund Burke, used to say. That very well sums up Jan Björklund's work in Swedish politics. Jan has, as few others have stood up for the school issue and at the same time stood up for a strong Swedish defence. During Jan twelve years as party leader, where it has gone from the People's Party to the Liberals, he has made a huge impression in Swedish politics. But he has also made a very big impression as a colleague. We've been laughing together. We have argued hard and intensely for and against each other. We've been texting and calling early mornings and unfortunately late nights too. Every Nobel party I have had to dance with Jan Björklund with staggering steps, because he has learned the dance steps at the local estates at home in Skene. On and off, we've thought differently. But we have shared faith and respect for strengthening liberal values and the importance of standing up for and clearly marking liberalism in Swedish politics. I am also particularly pleased with the joint responsibility we took over the last year, where we have stood up to xenophobia and populism and where you have been extremely upright. Now that Jan leaves Swedish politics, there are many of us in this House who will carry with his humour, his sense of timing, speed and passion for politics. He will now become a political veteran. This is why the Center Party as a parting gift has made a contribution to the Swedish Veteran Federation and the Gula Bandet, which provides support and assistance to our Swedish veterans in the Swedish Armed Forces. But beyond that, I also want to expand your closet. I think you can now put your blue campaign shirts away. Now you don't have to roll up your sleeves. Now, as a political veteran, you can see the political situation. That's why the Center Party has also bought a blue polo shirt. Many thanks for the good cooperation, Jan, during the eight years that we have together been fellow party leaders, and all the luck ahead!
i-NoJ9TzvHb5Ucw8R5EonDEF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annie Lööf! We've been working with everyone in here a lot, but we've been working together the most. We were party leaders and government ministers at the same time from 2011 onwards for three years. Then we have been party leaders together in opposition. This applies not least to the last year, which has been turbulent in Swedish politics. There we came to take the same position based on our common liberal convictions on how to steer it in the new political landscape and where everyone else was really angry at us. It unites especially. I appreciate very much Annie Lööf as a person and the cooperation we have had. Somehow, I want to say that I'm impressed by Annie Lööf's ability to endure. Now the Center Party is doing well, but it has not always done so. At the beginning of your party leadership, it was incredibly tough. I know how tough it was. You were new. They said, "Look, she's young, and all the things they said. But you could take it and you could hold it, and endurance pays off. It turned out, and I'm very impressed with that when it comes to you.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-435	Madam President, I would like I want to thank you for your long political act, Jan Björklund. Most of the time, we've thought differently. But I am absolutely convinced that you have done so with the interests of Sweden and Swedish democracy in mind. I would also like to thank you in particular for all the debates we have had with each other. It has been very nice to meet you in the debate. You give and you bring good cheer. You always come back, even if it can be tough and blow hard in the debate many times. These are qualities that I appreciate very much. I'm actually gonna miss you. I will miss you in this House, and I will miss you in the debates, even though we have mostly disagreed. I will sometimes look at your place and think: There Jan Björklund will sit and tweet about that there should be a mobile ban in school, but now he doesn't anymore. When a new Russian gas pipeline is to be built – I hope there will be no – perhaps there will no longer be anyone in this House who says that there are two faults in that gas pipeline: it is Russian, and it is gas. When someone dares to criticize something in a free trade agreement, you may not be there anymore and can say: You are against both freedom and trade, and that is why you are against this. You're gonna leave a void behind. That's just the way it is. I'll miss you sometimes. Now you have a new time in your life. I hope you get a lot of what's missing in party leadership life, time with your family, time to do what you really want, time to wake up one morning and feel: I don't know what to do this day. Let's see what it's gonna be. I think you're worth cultivating your interests that way. One of the biggest time thieves we have as party leader is our mobile phones. It's Twitter, e-mails and phone calls to be made. Many times it is they who take us away from our families or what we might want to do at the moment. There are those who believe that there is a need to legislate against mobile phones. I do not want to mention anyone in this House today. But there's another solution to get away from his cell phone, which I hope you'll get to do. It is available in many Swedish schools. Now I have two kids in middle school. My son Tor has made one of those for you in the veil. He made a cell phone box. That's where you put your phone when you don't want to be disturbed anymore. My daughter Greta has noticed that it is Jan Björklund's mobile box. It's so big, you'll probably have room for an Ipad too. When you get home to your family, you can just put your phone there, shut it down and you can ignore the stress, take it really easy and hang out with your children, your family and your wife instead. You're worth it!
i-RLm17BfMeeszrKZoBBZ1E	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt! I'm all touched. It's all beautiful presents. But the fact that the children have made it makes me very moved. I believe that Jonas Sjöstedt and I have met in more debates than I have met anyone else. In this House, we all meet equally. But we meet on TV, the media and out in different places. This is because we stand for different ideologies and different approaches to social development. I have also appreciated these debates more than any other debates. It'll be clear. It's just like I told Jimmie Åkesson. It is clear that the debate becomes very clear when you have completely different ideologies. But it's not just that. It is also about the ability to debate, make it fun and with a little give and take, as I think Jonas Sjöstedt said. That's exactly how I've experienced it. I will miss those debates.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-448	Madam President, I would like I have particularly appreciated and valued Jan Björklund's efforts for Swedish school policy. He has really pulled a huge load in turning the political supertanker that Swedish school has been and is. In addition, Jan Björklund has made great efforts in Swedish defence and energy debate, pushed for the rest of us, collaborated with the rest of us and made sure that we have made progress where otherwise it would not have been possible. Jan Björklund has done this in a government position, in the Riksdag and at Stockholm City Hall. Although we do not end our time as party leaders together as closely as we started it a few years ago, at least not politically, as far as cooperation is concerned, I would like to say that I have really appreciated – and now I am playing hello wildly – you as a wise, smart and warm colleague and a political opponent and persuasive. With you, Jan, I've had some of the toughest discussions, not least during the alliance period. But there have also been some of the discussions that I have put at the highest price and valued most. I'm really gonna miss you. I'd like to hand over a gift. It will be a little more easy to give today; it may be a little more serious on Monday. There is an inter-humoristic meaning in this gift that I believe Jan Björklund will understand. It can also be seen as a small symbol and reminder of what the Swedish flum school can do for a party leader's shortcomings in writing style, which can have quite devastating consequences. There will be a small fox for Jan Björklund. Thank you for your cooperation! You'll be very missed.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-453	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to Ebba Busch Thor for the time we have worked together! I appreciate Ebba Busch Thors's political style, which is very forthright. This applies not only in public but also when we sit down in a smaller circle; no one misunderstands what you think, but it is always crystal clear. I believe that this is part of the success of the Christian Democrats. Just like I told Annie Lööf, I want to tell you that I'm very impressed by the endurance that you showed in those tough years at first. Also in your case you started as a young person and got to hear all kinds of epithet as: Look, it's not going well! She's inexperienced! Then you show me where the cabinet should be, and you really have. It's a joy to see. Many thanks for the cooperation, and a great good luck in the future!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-456	Madam President, I would like I have had the ability to be in the same house as Jan Björklund, but never at the same time. When I was active in the City Hall, Jan Björklund had moved to the Riksdag. When I arrived at the Riksdag, Jan Björklund moved into the Government Office. When we entered the Government Office Jan Björklund moved back. This is therefore a unique opportunity: we are in the same place and in the same role as spokespersons and party leaders. Getting the chance to meet you like this is something I appreciate very much. I also very much appreciate the courage shown by Jan Björklund throughout his career. This applies both in the debates and when there are difficult times in Sweden. When it took a collection to manage to get Sweden further and to be able to control Sweden Jan Björklund together with Annie Lööf showed a strong courage to dare take the steps that needed to be taken. It is something that I, and I know that many others, too, appreciate. We as parties have different lines on a lot of issues; energy policy we should not even mention. But there are also things that unite us and that I appreciate very much with the Liberals and Jan Björklund. There is a social liberal contract and a freedom that I recognise in my own party. What my gift symbolizes is the commitment to biodiversity, which has been strong in the Liberals and which applies both at sea and on land. We see that the environmental movement has also noted that the Liberals have a special position on the bourgeois side when it comes to raising biodiversity. For that, too, they have been commended. When Jan Björklund now gets some extra time, it is perhaps time to go to practical action and make a contribution to biodiversity. He can now convert a sterile lawn into a flower meadow with blue clint, which is a good crop also for the pollinating insects. He also gets a birdhouse to give borum to those birds that unfortunately decrease in numbers in Sweden, just like in so many other places in the world. Then, of course, we are all curious about who will move into the cave in a few weeks! Many thanks for your commitment and for the joy of following you in politics!
i-9ZqmsHUiTuWAXnLGSFeMoB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Bolund! We have not been able to work together in these very roles, as party leader, for a very long time. But we have worked together before, not least in Stockholm City Hall. I have always appreciated Per Bolund, because he has a stronger record than most when it comes to ambitiously drilling deep into the factual problems, getting into them and making balances and assessments on a factual basis. I think it is already clear from your first party leader's debate here today that it is quite a bit of the luxuriant words, but more of a direct and very fact-oriented one. I think that's important. Your commitment to the environment you have carried with you all the time that I have followed you, and that is of course what you are passionate about most. But I particularly appreciate your objectivity and fact-orientation in politics. Good luck!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-467	I would also like to thank Jan Björklund very much on behalf of the Presidium for his time in Parliament as a party leader and for his great and deep commitment to the debates. We wish you every success in the future. I hope you enjoy the beautiful and beautiful gifts you've been given. Good luck, and thank you very much!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-468	Madam President, I would like It feels like coming after the grand finale to come after Jan Björklund in this debate. I thought that in his speech Jan Björklund raised and broadened the perspective, and that is something that is often needed in the debate. I would also like to highlight the perspectives and a little bit discuss what goals we are pursuing together in society. What do we want to achieve together? I would specifically like to link it to consumption in our society. In Sweden we consume more than ever. But the question we need to ask ourselves is: Does it make us feel better than ever? The need for storage is constantly growing, both at home and elsewhere. We're getting more stuff all the time. This is what the marketing manager of a company in one of Sweden's fastest growing industries, the supply industry. So not only do we spend more money on buying things, but we also spend more money on getting rid of things by getting supplies to lock them in. If consumption and increased consumption automatically brought happiness, we would be the happiest people in the world. But at the same time as we consume more, mental illness is also increasing in our society, especially in our children. More and more people in our country are being burned out. It's time for us to talk seriously about the declines of the buying-and-slip society. We will have technology development and use the best techniques, but it will not be enough. We must also create an economy in which one can lift one's eyes and think in the long term – longer than the next purchase. We are now seeing new solutions coming. When we in the government reduced the repair VAT and introduced the REP deduction, it became profitable to repair rather than throw away, and new companies with this focus grew up. The sharing economy, where we can use common resources together, is growing rapidly. We are now moving on and introducing in the January agreement the hyber deduction to encourage society to buy second-hand, rent or repair. It will be an obvious alternative to mass consumption. A society characterised by sustainability, humanism and humanity is not utopian. It's possible, but then it takes us to choose it. And it's time to choose.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-474	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago TV4's Cold Facts revealed that the Export Credit Board has granted a loan guarantee of over SEK 3 billion to build a fossil gas plant in the Russian Arctic. The plant is a large fossil gas plant that will emit anti-carbon dioxide every year. The indigenous people have already noticed the negative impact on fishing and the environment. Almost four years ago, the Paris Agreement was concluded. Nevertheless, the government and the Green Party have failed to update the guidelines for their authority. The Export Credit Board can therefore continue to provide loan guarantees to large fossil gas plants. My question will be: will the Green Party act to stop the loan guarantee for the fossil gas plant? Or is it satisfied that the Swedish state invests in fossil gas in the Arctic?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-477	Madam President, I would like The answer to the last question is, of course, no. We do not think that investments should go to increased fossil extraction. We know from science that we cannot even use the reserves of fossil oil, coal and gas that we know today. That is why we need to redirect the economy towards sustainable investment and sustainable solutions. That is also what we devote all our energies to, by having a climate law and by constantly ensuring that we steer financial market resources towards sustainable solutions. This must also apply to state investment. Therefore, as we now develop a new export strategy, we also say clearly that sustainability should be the focus. It should be a way to support the companies in Sweden that develop the sustainable solutions so that they can also export their solutions to the rest of the world. We know that this market is huge worldwide. It is by going ahead, developing the technologies and then also exporting them to the rest of the world that we have the opportunity to make the most of our contribution to a sustainable world in the future. That is our clear focus.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-479	Madam President, I would like Four years ago, the Paris Agreement was signed. During this time it has also been working on an export strategy that has been active in Sweden. Since then, the Green Party has been sitting with its arms crossed. During this time, the Export Credit Board has provided a loan guarantee for fossil gas in the Arctic, with the result that over 5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide will be released into the atmosphere each year. The climate and indigenous people are suffering. This has been done under the leadership of the Green Party, while the party held the Ministry of the Environment. It is a scandal that the Green Party has not acted in these years. The responsibility for government governance lies with the government; it cannot be sworn free from it. It is, of course, a good thing that, after the media review a few weeks ago, the guidelines are now being taken into consideration. But the fossil gas plant is where it is. I would therefore like to ask again: will the Green Party act to stop the Swedish state's loan guarantee for fossil gas that is now being extracted in the Arctic?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-481	Madam President, I would like Contrary to Annie Lööf's description, we have acted vigorously to ensure that we take the steps that need to be taken to build the sustainable society in the future. We've been working structurally. When we got to the Government Office, the boxes were empty. We had to fill environmental policy with new content. We have also done so – through the Climate Act and through the change of fuel, where we are now making sure to get renewable fuels through bonuses – the Malus system, which now greatly increases the sales of electric cars in Sweden. But we're not happy. We must do much more. We have now made sure that the export strategy is rewritten and that sustainability is the focus. On the other hand, I do not think it is fair to say that the Swedish export credit is what has made this whole project happen. It is a small part, which we also think leads in the wrong direction. What is important, however, is that we now design the rules so that they actually lead us to make sustainable export efforts in the future and that it is environmental technology that Sweden exports. That is what is the future, even for Swedish business.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-484	Madam President and Mr Per Bolund! The government is faced with several important decisions in climate policy. This concerns Arlanda, the infrastructure, the LNG terminal in Gothenburg, and not least the very comprehensive plans to expand the large refinery in Lysekil, Preem. If the plans were to be completed, emissions would double from 1.7 to 3.4 million tonnes, corresponding to 17% of Sweden's climate emissions. My question to Mr Per Bolund is not put to him as a representative of the government, but as a spokesperson for the Green Party. I wonder what the Green Party thinks: Is the Green Party against this extension of the Preemrefinery?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-486	Madam President, I would like The Green Party's line is simple and clear: we want investments to build what is sustainable for the future. We do not see fossil investment as part of a sustainable future. If we are to be able to achieve environmental objectives, we must redirect investments to the sustainable as quickly as possible. At the same time, it is important to see that we have a society that is far from sustainable. We have not yet built a sustainable society. This means that some investments that do not clearly lead in the right direction will remain. What we are focusing on, however, is self-evident, as soon as possible, to direct all resources towards building renewable energy sources. That is why, among other things, we have acted at European level by five-folding the price of allowances, which also affects Preem's investment. That is why we have also entered in the January agreement that we should review all relevant legislation in order for it to be in line with the climate law and simply lead to our reaching the climate law objectives. It can be trusted that the Green Party is always a force, whether we are in opposition or in government, to transfer investment to the sustainable investment law.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-490	Madam President, I would like Even if Per Bolund does not say it out loud, the consequence of the reasoning he argues that the Green Party is opposed to this gigantic investment in new fossil emissions in Lysekil. At least I'll interpret him like that. The Green Party has a unique opportunity to act. It is clear that the legislation is not enough. In this case, climate law is not strong enough to be able to strike the right balance. However, the government has the opportunity to conduct a government review and use stop regulations in the environmental code. Here some of the government's credibility on the climate issue is at stake, I mean. If we do not put a stop to the really great sinners when it comes to climate emissions, it is difficult to bring people into the important transition that we have ahead of us. My question is whether Per Bolund and the Green Party are prepared to act in the government to do a government test and thus try to prevent these increasing emissions.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-493	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt raises a question that is a little premature. Now this is the case in court, and the court is still dealing with the matter. How the court will land in the end neither Jonas Sjöstedt nor I know. We need to see how the Court acts and interprets the existing legislation, which also states that it should take great account of, among other things, the climate. What we are now actively doing is agreeing with parties so that we can take action to review the legislation that affects, for example, environmental and climate investments, so that the legislation leads us to achieve the climate law objectives. That's the most important thing. The faster we can make that change, the faster we can make sure that we move investments to support the transition to a fossil-free welfare society, which is the goal set by the Green Party and the government. That is something we are working on ambitiously.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-495	Madam President, I would like In an article worth reading last autumn, the New York Times tried to explain why, as they put it, green Germany remains dependent on coal. The newspaper points to Germany's lack of power grids to send electricity from wind turbines in the northern parts of the country to the industrial areas of the southern part. In May, German Der Spiegel wrote on the same theme: The German energy transition that began in 2011 has cost many billions of euros, created an opinion against the necessary green transition and produced meagre results. There are several parallels here, I mean, to things the Green Party is pushing, such as higher taxes on fuel in cogeneration plants, which are at risk of impairing district heating and its ability to contribute to the power supply. That is why I wonder: does the Green Party draw any conclusions from what has gone wrong in Germany?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-499	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you notice that you have completely different interpretations of reality and completely different views of development. On the contrary, we see a huge number of positive developments in Germany. Investment in renewable electricity production has now increased sharply, so much that renewables have now actually been over-carbon in Germany and are still growing rapidly. This is a development we are also seeing in Sweden, where wind power will now double over the next few years. I had expected that the climate debate would give some impressions in Swedish politics and that consideration would also be given to familiar positions. When I saw the climate discussion that was taking place, when I saw the millions of young people who are out on the streets demonstrating for the climate, I did not expect the reaction in politics, when we raise the price of emissions so that coal power in Sweden would be phased out, that the Christian Democrats would become the champions of coal power in Sweden. Actually, it was a development that I didn't see coming. Why does Ebba Busch Thor not think it is better that we use biofuels and renewable electricity than that we maintain coal power in Sweden?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-501	Madam President, I would like On the contrary – I want to ensure that Sweden is completely free from coal power and that under no circumstances do we end up in a situation where we can be forced to import dirty coal power from Germany or become dependent – or make other countries in the EU more dependent – on Russian gas, for example. However, if we are to make the transition, we need more electricity, and a short-term climate change policy is forcing us in some cities to say no to building new, environmentally friendly housing because of power and electricity shortages. It makes it difficult to switch industry to sustainable production and to charge electric vehicles' batteries. Björn-Owe-Owe Björk in Uppsala County recently highlighted in Expressen the fact that housing, server halls and ironically battery plants are forced to be abandoned due to a lack of capacity in the electricity grid. In Malmö the bread company Pågen is forced to refrain from expanding its factory. Are you so critical of growth and nuclear power that you do not even see the most obvious problems with the short-term nature of this policy?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-505	Madam President, I would like The word is short-sighted, I think is very double edged in what Ebba Busch Thor says. Short term is not to act resolutely against climate change. Short term is not to understand how big the threat is from climate change in Sweden and in the world. I find it embarrassing that we still have coal power in Sweden and that we are not doing everything we can to remove it now. It is high time that coal power was actually phased out and replaced with the alternatives that we know exist in the form of bio-cogeneration, in the form of wind power that is now emerging and in the form of solar cells that have now come up on Swedish roofs in very large numbers. The Christian Democrats' and Moderates' budget, which was supported by the Swedish Democrats, unfortunately meant a halving of support for solar cells. We are faced with a choice: what energy do we want? We want renewable energy. We want a 100% renewable energy system in Sweden. Then we must invest in this way, and then we must also ensure that coal power pays its full costs. I deeply regret that the Christian Democrats are against this.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-512	Madam President, I would like Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants Sweden to be a country that consistently stands up for democracy and popular rule, a country that actively and consistently works for peace and disarmament, a country that condemns any violation of human rights, regardless of where, by whom or with what motives it is committed. Sweden has every opportunity to be such a country. But to get there, Sweden needs to stop arming authoritarian regimes, countries that are in war and states that commit gross and extensive violations of human rights. Sweden is one of the world's largest arms exporters per capita. Buyers include a wide range of dictatorships, belligerent states and countries that commit gross violations of human rights. When the government visits country after country that commits serious violations of human rights or are pure dictatorships, although the government does not always take that word in its mouth, in order to get them to buy Swedish weapons, it acts in violation of the regulatory framework that exists to regulate exports and in violation of Sweden's policy for global development and Agenda 2030. When the Riksdag last year discussed the bill for strengthened export control for armaments, the Left Party was the only party that wanted an absolute ban on the export of armaments to dictatorships, to states that violate human rights and to belligerent states. The new regulatory framework came into force a year ago, almost seven years after the Parliament made its announcement that a new regulatory framework was needed. The Left Party was the driving force behind the decision to tighten up the regulatory framework and welcomed the presentation of a proposal. The new legislation represents some positive steps in the right direction, such as clarifying the government's responsibility for arms exports and limiting the definition of consequential supplies and some increased transparency of exports. However, the main issue remains, and we believe that the new law is inadequate and likely to make a relatively small difference. The precise impact of the new regulatory framework is too early to comment on. In order to determine whether the intention of the new law has been fulfilled, the Government should also carry out a thorough evaluation three years after the legislation has entered into force, says the Left Party. Now, after the law was introduced, the Riksdag has very difficult to follow up on it. Nor does it become easier for the government's letter to identify which old export authorisations have been granted under the new and old legislation. The Left Party would have liked the letter to have reported the statistics on the basis of the law applied. Armaments exports often involve long-term processes. A decision taken one year may lead to exports for several years to come. There are cases where there have been successive deliveries up to 40 years after delivery. Therefore, the Left Party believes that the government, in order to ensure maximum transparency, will report in future letters on the export of war material according to which law the export has been granted. I believe that Parliament should have announced this today. In the letter, the government describes what Swedish arms exports looked like in 2018. The value of exports of armaments amounted to just over SEK 11 billion, i.e. about half a percent of Sweden's total exports. I think that it is important to include these in the debate on the importance of the Swedish arms industry. By far the largest recipient country was 2018, just like 2017, Brazil. Pakistan, India, Hungary and the United States followed. In 2018, Sweden has also exported weapons to 17 states classified as non-free or partially free by Freedom House. In 2018, licences were granted for future exports to all these countries. The question is therefore whether the new law has had any effect. So to the example of Brazil. On 1 January 2019, right-wing populist Jair Bolsonaro took office as President of Brazil. The Bolsonaros government has more military ministers than the government that ruled the country under the military rule after the coup in 1964. Of the 22 ministers, only 2 are women. Since access, Bolsonaro has been able to legalize the possession of weapons, open up for exploitation of protected areas in the Amazon rain forests, and move the Brazilian Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. He has renounced Brazil's hostship for the UN climate summit this autumn – it moves to Chile, I think it was – and has clearly profiled itself as a climate sceptic. Since Bolsonaro took office, we have seen increased violations of human rights, restrictions on freedoms and a shrinking democracy. We were also told today that the Minister of Justice has been involved in stopping the opposition candidate, the former President Lula, from running against Bolsonaro in the last election. Human rights activists, LGBT people and opposition politicians have been forced to leave the country because of death threats that are at risk of being carried out. In 2017 and 2018, Brazil was the country to which Sweden exported the most arms. The Swedish-Brazilian contract for the JAS fighter aircraft connects the Swedish and Brazilian governments to each other for a very long time in an interdependency. The Left Party is very critical of the government's support for the deal, and in the light of developments in Brazil, we believe that the government must now monitor the deal very closely. There is a great risk that Swedish weapons will be used to violate human rights and create instability in Latin America. The government should therefore evaluate developments in Brazil and act to ensure that Swedish weapons do not contribute to violations of human rights or create instability in the region. Madam President, I would like The double standards of Swedish arms exports are most evident in arms exports to the states warring in Yemen. While the government is strongly in favour of the importance of democracy, peace and women's rights, Sweden armes warring dictatorships that systematically violate women's rights and bomb the Yemeni people. In the spring of 2015, a military alliance under the leadership of Saudi Arabia launched air strikes against the Huthirebelles in Yemen, which in turn receive support from Saudi Arabia's archenemy Iran. The war in Yemen has created the world's worst ongoing humanitarian disaster. Over 22 million people need humanitarian aid, and more than 3 million people are on the run in the country. 85 000 children are believed to have died of starvation. Saudi Arabia is one of the world's largest arms buyers, by far the largest in the Middle East. In addition to Saudi Arabia, the coalition fighting the Huthirebs in Yemen consists of many other countries: Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco and Sudan. During all bombings by Yemen, Sweden has exported arms to six of these states participating in the coalition. In 2018, Sweden exported armaments and granted exports to these six states. All are to be regarded as authoritarian states that violate human rights, and they are also involved in an armed conflict. Recently, the online newspaper The Intercept and the French digging network Disclose revealed what war material is used in the war in Yemen. The disclosure is based on leaked secret documents that show that Swedish Saab's radar and combat management system Erieye has been used in the war. The revelation makes clear Sweden's and other countries' support for the terrible war. It is no longer possible to duck for the partial responsibility that Sweden has for the enormous suffering in Yemen. Sweden will not be a vote for human rights anywhere on earth with credibility as long as arms exports to dictatorships continue. Madam President, I would like Paragraph 70 of the agreement reached by the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party states that the principle of the four parties is not to approve arms export transactions to non-democratic countries involved in the Yemeni military conflict as long as the conflict continues. It is also clear that the Government will examine matters based on current legislation. However, the expression principled attitude creates some confusion, and different representatives from different government parties have given different answers. The Left Party believes that, on the basis of this position, the government should ask the Strategic Product Inspection, the ISP, to hand over all decisions relating to the export of war material to the states concerned to the government for decision. When the government makes decisions, weapons shall not be exported to those states. But I know nothing has happened with paragraph 70 since the January agreement was signed five months ago. The Left Party believes that the government should take action so that these states do not receive weapons. The planned delivery of Saab's radar and combat management system Globaleye, a sequel to Erieye mentioned in the French documents, to the United Arab Emirates must be stopped. The leaked documents showing that Erieye is being used in Yemen also say that the United Arab Emirates is primarily responsible for maintaining the blockade of Yemen. Globaleye would significantly increase this capacity – and with greater efficiency. If granted, exports will have direct and long-term consequences. There are possibilities within the Swedish regulatory framework to say no to consequential deliveries and withdraw already approved arms deals if there are special reasons for that. The brutal war going on in Yemen and the evidence that Swedish weapons are being used should in this case be seen as a sufficiently strong reason. The Left Party believes that the government must assume its responsibilities and stop arms exports to, among other things, the United Arab Emirates. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-533	Madam President, I would like The world is not always a very beautiful place. But it is still our job to relate to this place and make the best of the situation when instability, uncertainty and conflict prevail in our environment. The ability to defend ourselves against malicious attacks is the duty we have to ourselves, our loved ones and even people living in other parts of the world. Sweden's defence capabilities are linked to our ability to have a high degree of self-sufficiency in war material. The ability to defend oneself in the best way presupposes that Sweden as a country has the necessary material and is needed to fulfil that task. Being independent in the capacity to defend our country also means that we have a responsibility to provide ourselves with the necessary equipment and equipment. It keeps costs down, and it means that we have control over the equipment that will then be used on the day it is required. In order to fulfil this task, it is necessary that Sweden, as a small and independent country, also shares its defence capabilities. This means that the export of military equipment must be possible in order to strengthen our independence and also strengthen our defence capabilities. Sweden's arms industry must have access to other markets than the Swedish industry alone for this model to work. It must be done with responsibility, and it must be done in a well-thought-out way. Madam President, I would like Therefore, the defence industry has long been a central part of the Swedish security and defence policy, and arms exports strengthen the Swedish defence industry's ability to also maintain a high and competitive level of technology. An internationally competitive technology level also contributes to Sweden remaining an interesting country to cooperate internationally with. It is in Sweden's security policy's interest to safeguard long-term and continuous cooperation on material matters with a number of traditional partner countries, which means both exports and imports of war material. This also means better opportunities for Sweden to influence international export control cooperation. It is therefore for these reasons that Sweden has chosen, for foreign, security and defence policy reasons, to allow to some extent the export of armaments. Ultimately, the aim is to safeguard Sweden's long-term security. Madam President, I would like The Moderates believe that Sweden should have strict export control legislation with close monitoring and follow-up. We believe that the best thing would be for a universally legally binding treaty to strengthen worldwide control of the trade in conventional weapons. It represents the most effective way to combat the cross-border illegal arms trade, which in many parts of the world breeds armed conflict and instability. We also want to see increased demands on the world's countries to make the necessary laws, create adequate control instruments and establish or strengthen authorities in the countries responsible for that control. The Swedish export control of armaments has relatively recently, last year, undergone a review in a parliamentary committee, with the result that new legislation is in place where a new democracy criterion has been introduced. It's important. It was urgent that a complex issue be resolved in broad political agreement. The agreement creates long-term conditions for industry and clear rules for countries and companies trading with Sweden. Export control means that war material can only be exported to recipient countries that are acceptable to Sweden. It is also important for the material supply of the Swedish defence. Madam President, I would like With this, I support the proposal in the committee's report. I also refer to the specific opinion of the Moderates on this matter.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-543	Madam President, I would like Sweden, Swedish defence capabilities and Swedish freedom of alliance have benefited from a well-functioning domestic defence industry. Thanks to its availability, we, as a country, have been able to remain non-aligned and independent of other states and their goodwill to sell war material to us. This has been positive, not least for the relaxation of the cold war, and it is positive now that the security situation around the Baltic Sea has deteriorated. Sweden has a defence industry that we can be proud of and that is worth defending and protecting. Our defence industry is very technology driven and invests more in research than Chalmers and KTH do together – something that would disappear if the defence companies were forced to move abroad or close their operations. Another reason to protect our defence industry is that access to our own advanced technology opens up the foreign market for Sweden. Only those with their own advanced technology can negotiate for themselves the most modern armaments from other countries. The Swedish defence industry employs around 30 000 jobs and indirectly employs about 100 000 people. Therefore, even if the reasons for security policy are enough, there are also reasons for labour market policy to protect the industry. But to survive, the Swedish defence industry depends entirely on its exports. A good example of this is the fighter aircraft JAS 39 Gripen. Thanks to the sale of Gripen to Brazil, Saab and Sweden have been given the opportunity to continue developing the aircraft and maintain our domestic aviation industry. If sales had not been carried out, this would probably not have been possible – something that would have led to very negative consequences for our aviation industry, the ability of the Swedish Air Force and our taxpayers. However, uncertainties are now emerging about the cooperation agreement. There is a risk that we will now open up the entire patent platform for Gripen, which will enable Brazil to further develop the system without Swedish interference. Brazil is also a close friend of China. According to the government's advisors, who analysed it, the agreement is apparently flawed and according to the Leader pages, a stinging calculation of Mikael Damberg's performance as Minister of Economic Affairs. But according to the editorial pages Maud Olofsson or Annie Lööf cannot escape responsibility either. Even more distressing is the fact that at the same time as the rest of us are doing what we can politically to persuade other countries to buy Gripen, the Swedish government is moving in the opposite direction together with the Moderates, among other things. Through its constant attacks, not infrequently based on inaccuracies and pure fake news, the government and its representatives attack Hungary in time and without delay. With completely preposterous accusations and senseless outcomes, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and perhaps above all Minister Annika Strandhäll are about to sabotage important defence industrial interests. Sometimes you wonder what they use their heads for other things than putting their hat on. The campaigns by the Moderates against the Hungarian Government Party certainly do not help to alleviate the situation. These political campaigns – often far below the limits of decency – may now have major consequences for the Swedish export industry in general and Swedish exports of defence equipment in particular. Today, Hungary leases JAS 39 Gripen by the Swedish state. The leasing arrangement has been a way of acquiring an advantage in future procurements. However, because of the constant political attack by the Swedish government, Hungary has now turned its eyes away from Sweden and started investigating other alternatives. Military Watch, which has good sources in the Hungarian government, reports that the systems now being evaluated are the U.S. F-35 A. Sweden, despite its joint membership of the EU, is no longer considered a partner. Johan Westerholm at Ledarsidorna describes the situation as follows: a lost lease contract and, in the long run, a situation where Sweden loses another practically safe export deal by JAS 39 Gripen will hit hard on the Swedish SAAB Group and Gripen's potential to be exported to other countries. Losing a deal in the domestic market that the EU is, despite the advantage a lease allows, will have insurmountable consequences for Sweden. ..................................................... Of course, it is not just Swedish jobs that are under threat. Swedish research will also be damaged for a long time to come. All of this is due to the constant clavering of the Swedish Government. It's embarrassing! Perhaps the Prime Minister should gag several of his ministers? For the Swedish Democrats, the Swedish defence industry and Swedish exports of defence equipment are priority issues. We will safeguard exports and do what we can to ensure that the Swedish defence industry will continue to be the leader – despite the shortcomings of various Swedish governments.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-556	Madam President, I would like Yes, this is about export control accounting by the government. The government is responsible for arms exports. The fact that we have a system of inspection for strategic products does not mean that the government is not ultimately responsible. It was also evident in the investigation called KEX. It is important that the government accepts this responsibility. We now see a year that is shared, because in 2018 we got a new regulatory framework. The legislation remained largely the same, with some adjustment, but the rest of the regulatory framework changed. With the new regulatory framework for 2018, Sweden probably got the most restrictive export control regime that can be found in the world. It is important that the new regulatory framework now has the opportunity to deliver and have an impact. The basis is that exports are prohibited. A special permit is required to break that ban. There are, of course, special conditions here. We are members of the UN and the EU. The UN's decision on sanctions is unconditionally adhered to. The same applies to the EU and the OSSE. These are unconditional conditions. Our EU membership also creates special conditions. For our part, the EU is not an export market but an internal market, and that makes specific rules exist. Similarly, we have special relations with certain countries to which we regard more as friends, to which we more or less readily accept and export. It is also visible in the accounts. These are, for example, NATO countries. In addition to our own export control regime, we are involved in a number of other export control regimes. It may be regimes for chemical weapons, for weapons of mass destruction of various kinds or other regimes that influence and are part of the test that needs to be carried out. It is important that we maintain these regimes and do not jeopardise them in any way. We point this out in our special opinion on this report. We are, of course, concerned about the signals that have come from, among other things, the Inspection of Strategic Products regarding the possibility of fully enforcing our export control regimes, depending on the outcome of a possible nuclear ban. Whether there is a narrow or broad interpretation can influence. Here we highlight the importance of ensuring that we do not jeopardise this. This is clear from our special opinion. Otherwise, I would just like to emphasise what is important to see when we talk about export control and this accounting: the difference between war material for combat and dual-use items. It is clear that today we have enlarged the group of goods, services and items that can be included in a dual-use item. Everything is, of course, presented here and can be used to give a picture that it is very much. One can also easily use part of total exports in the debate to give an impression that we are exporting a lot of weapons. But, as I said, some of this may be clothing. It could be trucks or metal. There are several different products that come in this way. These may be electronics or equipment for dairies or other items included in this account. It is important to see that not everything is the same type of product, but there is a wide range in this context. When we continue to test all these different parts based on the new regulatory framework, this should of course be done with regard to Sweden's safety, which is vital and central to the trial. We do not jeopardise Sweden's safety with the new regulatory framework. But we shall also ensure that there is a clear account of the democratic situation in the country. If there are serious deficiencies, this constitutes an obstacle to exports, a so-called conditional obstacle. The same applies if there are serious violations of human rights. It is important that this picture should now sit down. It should also focus on the part of the Riksdag, in order to get an account of how this has been used in the examination and assessment of the regulatory framework that has been renewed. I believe that there is much to be learned from that review, and the government should also be held accountable for how it has been interpreted. It is clear that it is ultimately the government that in this case will set the practice and the level of use of democratic barriers or obstacles to human rights. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the report and refer to the specific opinion.
i-XSoXoAoHws1uYzDWaKWT8q	Madam President, I would like In connection with the government's letter on arms exports, the Center Party chose to give a follow-up motion which was not endorsed by the committee in its examination of the report. As Kerstin Lundgren explained, it was instead a special opinion, because it felt that the committee's report was so well worded. Another explanation could be the sharp criticism that the Center Party has received from civil society organisations such as the Red Cross, Swedish Doctors against Nuclear Weapons and the International Women's League for Peace and Freedom, the IKFF. The Center Party believes in the motion that the future of the Swedish arms industry is threatened if Sweden signs the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons. I would say that the motion raises questions rather than clarity. Is it the case that Sweden is currently exporting and cooperating on the development of nuclear weapons? And if so, is there something that the Center Party thinks is good? The chairman of the Red Cross wrote: In conclusion, it would be remarkable if a country such as Sweden, with its deep confidence in the normative effect of the international legal order and its use as a security policy instrument, were to deviate from its principled approach in the work for international peace and security and, as the motion for a motion indirectly suggests, wanted to remain open in order to contribute to the development of nuclear weapons. The UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons contains clauses expressly allowing peaceful use and cooperation of nuclear energy for civilian purposes. Euratom has rejected the fact that a signature would have an impact on their work. The Convention is only aimed at states categorically rejecting nuclear weapons. It is good that the Center Party no longer stands up for its motion, but, Madam President, it is a motion that should never have been written. Let us hope that at best it was an accident at work.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-574	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling should probably read the motion rather than the comments that came from various civil organisations. The motion demands that Swedish export control and participation in the export control regime should not be undermined by the signing of the UN Nuclear Ban Convention and that it agrees with what is stated in the motion when it comes to not risking the future of Swedish research and industry through a signature. These are the points that are then also raised in the report: that it is important to keep in mind that we do not question or risk export control, of which we are part of the international environment. The clear signal in the motion really concerns the question: Is it a broad or a narrow interpretation? If that is what we are ignorant today, and it makes there a risk, not least when we are talking about dual-use items and the fact that we in the European Union have nuclear weapons states – today two and in the future perhaps only one, but we have France which is a nuclear weapon state. There is really no control of exports within the EU, because it is not export; it is an internal market. In addition, there is a wide range of collaborations that, depending on how you use the margin of interpretation, could risk getting into a very difficult discussion with regard to our export control regime in the future. We don't want to do that. We think it is enough that we were clear and, in this way, the report also made it clear. We are still fundamentally behind it, but we choose not to reserve ourselves. At that time, the wording that we received in the report had not come about, because it thought the Left Party and Håkan Svenneling were going almost a little too far.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-578	Madam President, I would like Anyone seeking only problems and reasons to say no will also find them. This is my feeling about Kerstin Lundgren's work against the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. I have read the motion that Kerstin Lundgren has written and to which she refers. You don't really know where the Center Party is going, and that's what I think right now is Kerstin Lundgren's role in this debate: being the one who confuses. She is happy to speak up for the NPT and for Sweden to stand up for what they have stood up for historically. But at the same time we see that the Center Party has not left any motions, interpellations or written questions relating to the NPT. However, the question of Swedish NATO membership has been turned, and it is now seen as its great dream that Sweden will step under NATO's nuclear umbrella. The discussion on Swedish arms exports then begins to talk about cooperation that could be called into question if we restricted arms exports. I do not think any of us believe that it is part of a Swedish EU membership to be under a French nuclear umbrella. I hope that is not the way to interpret the articles of the EU Treaty that deal with helping one another as a country. However, even implying that there would be obstacles to Swedish research and development or to dual-use items creates a concern that one wants to counteract the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. I think this is serious, and I find it a sad way of doing politics. I hope that we will not hear this kind of argument from Kerstin Lundgren any more.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-583	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I cannot please Håkan Svenneling, because this is the argument that will be heard. I very much hope that the government will also look at this and look at the very wise referrals that have come, for example from the Strategic Product Inspection, which points to these very issues. This is important. It is also important to examine the issue of the link with Euratom. This is exciting. I know the arguments. I have also read emails with exactly the same arguments, and I recognize the senders as other than Håkan Svenneling. Basically, of course, we have the view that we want to assert a strong export control regime. We do not want to end up in a situation where it is undermined by stepping into an unclear prohibition convention, which risks undermining not only the IAEA and other organisations. The export control we have in Sweden is also at risk of being undermined. It will be heard that it is being interpreted quite wrongly. There will also be a forward-looking debate which will also seek to strangle the ability of the internal market to act and function. This concerns a wide range of products and a wide range of collaborations. It is essentially not war material for combat, but dual-use items, such as research and a broad industrial activity.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-587	Madam President, I would like We deal with the Government's letter Strategic Export Control 2018 – Armaments and dual-use items. We see in the Government's letter that some improvements have been made in the statistical report in accordance with the previous bill Strengthened export control of war material. The report has been expanded with facts that have not previously been published and has been re-structured for better transparency and accessibility. Another innovation is that the Inspection for Strategic Products, ISP, gives its own view of important trends in Swedish and international export control. Madam President, I would like Export control of war and dual-use items is necessary to meet both our national objectives and our international commitments. It shall also ensure that products removed from Sweden are removed in accordance with established export control regulations. Under Section 1, second paragraph, war material may only be exported if there are security or defence policy reasons and this does not conflict with Sweden's international obligations or Sweden's foreign policy in general. The licensing process is carried out in accordance with the Swedish Guidelines on Armaments Exports, the EU Common Position on Arms Exports and the Arms Trade Treaty, ATT. The multilateral agreements and instruments on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are important for the international community's efforts to prevent the proliferation of such weapons. By controlling trade in dual-use items – these are mainly technologies that can be used both for civilian purposes and for the production or development of war material or weapons of mass destruction – the dissemination can be minimised. Therefore, strict and effective national export controls are required. And instruments are needed to enable individual states to fulfil their international commitments in the field of non-proliferation. Madam President, I would like Increased transparency and accounting in the area of export control is achieved through the transparency of all parliamentary parties in the Export Control Council. There is a broader discussion on issues related to export control of war and dual-use items. Parliamentary transparency in Sweden's export control policy contributes to a broader discussion on issues related to export control of war material and dual-use items. Madam President, I would like The bill "Enhanced Export Control of Armaments", on which Parliament decided on 28 February 2018, largely implements the proposals put forward by the Parliamentary Armaments Export Review Committee in its report. The parliamentary so-called KEX investigation put forward proposals for a number of reinforcements in the export control of armaments. The Christian Democrats, among other things, pushed the importance of a democracy criterion. Among other things, the bill proposed that the democratic status of the recipient country should be a central condition for the authorisation process. The worse the democratic status, the less room there is for authorisation to be granted. The Christian Democrats were the driving force in this regard. If there are serious and widespread violations of human rights or serious shortcomings in the recipient's democratic status, this constitutes an obstacle to the granting of permits. The permit testing shall also take into account whether exports are detrimental to sustainable development in the country of destination. In addition, the principles of consequential supply and international cooperation are clarified. It is also proposed to strengthen supervision, penalties for certain breaches of the acquis and to increase transparency and transparency in matters relating to arms exports. These measures are necessary and should be implemented. Madam President, I would like Increased transparency and consultation on issues related to arms exports and more are the main objectives of the parliamentary representation in the Export Control Council, where all parliamentary parties are represented. The Director-General of the Inspection for Strategic Products, ISP, chairs the Group, and ISP is responsible for the selection of cases made subject to consultations with the Export Control Council. For example, prior consultation may take place before advance notice is given to a company. Members are given full transparency in the handling of exit cases. The Director-General continuously reports all exit decisions regarding exports, tender notifications and cooperation agreements and announced advance rulings. This is unique in international contexts in that representatives of all parties in the Riksdag have the opportunity in advance to discuss possible export transactions. It creates a broad anchoring of export control policies and promotes continuity in the policies pursued. Madam President, I would like The foundation for the modern Swedish defence industry was laid during the Cold War, and Sweden's policy of neutrality was designed after the Second World War. The Swedish Armed Forces can then be said to be the guarantor of our freedom and security. Resources for the Armed Forces should be increased, and Sweden's defence capabilities should be strengthened. A strong defence force and a strong national defence industry are an important part of Swedish security policy. Exports of armaments secure and increase Sweden's capacity to develop and produce materials adapted to the needs of the Swedish Armed Forces. A Swedish internationally competitive technology level contributes to Sweden remaining an interesting country for international cooperation and provides Sweden with better opportunities to influence international export control cooperation. It is in our security policy's interest to safeguard long-term and continuous cooperation on material issues with a number of traditional partner countries, which is based on both the export and import of war material. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats were a driving force in tightening the regulatory framework for Swedish arms exports. Strict export control legislation, which is constantly monitored and monitored and which is in line with current legislation, guidelines and international agreements, should continue to be safeguarded. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-602	Madam President, I would like We have today to deal with the report concerning the government's letter on strategic export control last year. These are war material and dual-use items. In this letter, the Government describes the Swedish export control policy on war material and dual-use items. The letter contains a description of the exports that have occurred. It also describes cooperation within the EU and in some other international fora on issues related to this area. On the Liberal side, we believe that arms exports are important. It strengthens the capabilities of the defence industry to maintain a high level of competitive technology and thereby also the skills required to maintain and maintain the Swedish Armed Forces' equipment systems. This is of course important for the Swedish Armed Forces. An internationally competitive technology level also contributes to Sweden being an interesting country for international collaborations. This also gives us greater opportunities to influence international export control cooperation. It is, of course, in our security policy's interest to safeguard long-term and continuous cooperation on material matters with a number of traditional partner countries, thus based on both exports and imports. At the same time, it is important to emphasise, Madam President, that Sweden should take a very restrictive approach to arms exports to authoritarian and undemocratic regimes. In short, Sweden should not export arms to dictatorships. We tightened up the legislation last year, which is a good thing. This framework must be regularly monitored and evaluated, both here in Parliament and in the Export Control Council. With this, I would like to thank you for the floor and to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-607	Madam President, I would like In the January agreement signed by the Liberals with the government parties and the Center Party, there is, in paragraph 70, a special note not to export to warring parties in the Yemeni conflict. It was said in retrospect that it was a writing that the Green Party pushed through. But from what the Liberals have long felt about exports to dictatorships, which Fredrik was into, I tip off that the Liberals thought it was very good to get to such a writing. However, it is a little unclear what has happened after this wording has been given. It has come to light that there are slightly different interpretations of what the wording means. I put a written question to Minister Morgan Johansson, who is responsible for these questions. He then replied, "The political agreement between four parties from January expresses an important principle of not approving arms export transactions to non-democratic countries involved in the Yemeni military conflict as long as the conflict continues." It is then up to the Inspection of Strategic Products and, where appropriate, the Government to examine individual cases on the basis of applicable legislation and guidelines on and when cases are brought. ..................................................... Both Minister Johansson's reply and the fact that the government has done nothing indicate that there has been no change. I wonder what the Liberals think that the government has done nothing with paragraph 70 since the agreement was signed five months ago.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-610	Madam President, I would like It may also have been the case that no applications have been submitted which have been rejected. But basically it is Sweden's defence interests and security and foreign policy interests and the government's assessments that are guiding and that are above, so to speak, interests of selling to certain countries. If you make the foreign policy assessment that you should not sell to a particular country, it is superior. We are, of course, in favour of the January agreement. We think it is extremely important that Sweden does not export war material to countries involved in the war in Yemen. That should of course apply. I find it difficult to give a more concrete answer than that.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-612	Madam President, I would like I will return to the representative of the government. He can even now prepare for a question to come to him. In military contexts, the term bang is used for money. Here's a little bit of the same question for the Liberals. An agreement has been signed with the government. They say that they do not want any arms exports. But we do not see the government doing anything on this issue. There have been no initiatives. They didn't bring it into the government declaration. It was not included in the foreign policy declaration either. Although five months have passed, the Liberals, the Center Party and the Green Party have received nothing from the Social Democratic Government on paragraph 70. This is a point that has not actually taken effect. I wonder how Fredrik Malm sees it. You have made this agreement. When we negotiated the budget with the government, we wanted them to do things. Have you put pressure on the government in any way to ensure that they comply with paragraph 70?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-615	Madam President, I would like Now Håkan Svenneling has no reply left, but the counter question is: Is there any export to belligerent countries? If there is no export, and it is a clear point in the January agreement that no export is to take place, this is being met. If anyone wants to export to any country engaged in war in Yemen, that application should of course be rejected. I can give no other answer to the question than this. I simply assume that the point we are now discussing is being followed.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-617	Madam President, I would like Since 1985, various governments have been writing to the Riksdag where arms exports have been reported. This is, if I have counted correctly, the 35th letter of that kind. It should be a unique openness to arms exports that Sweden has, compared to all other countries in the world that engage in arms exports. It may be worth recalling when it is sometimes presented in the debate as being very secret and difficult to access. Of course, there are things that are secret, but even those secrets the parliament has insight into through special control bodies where the parties of the Riksdag are represented. Earlier in the debate, several have described in a commendable and good way why Sweden has an armaments export. They have pointed out that it is a question of us being able to equip and arm the Swedish defence at a reasonable cost. Then we need to be able to spread the costs on more units, quite simply. It is also about Sweden having a very high-tech defence, and in order to have it we need the high-tech industry. However, there is an argument that we have a Swedish arms exports that have not previously emerged in the debate. It is about the importance of having it so that Sweden can still be militaryly non-aligned. We Social Democrats and some other parties in the Riksdag want Sweden to be militaryly non-aligned and not join NATO. Then it is important to have our own armaments production, and exports, of this high-tech nature. Without it, we would face much more clearly that it would be almost absolutely necessary to join NATO. It is worth considering for those who are critical of arms exports and who often also want Sweden to be outside NATO. The exports we have are regulated by legislation here in Sweden, by UN decisions and by EU decisions. I would particularly like to highlight paragraph 7.4 of the Arms Trade Treaty, which also deals with combating gender-related acts of violence. I think that part of the regulation that is forgotten in the debate, both in this House and in general, is that this women's perspective should also be included. It is worth noting when it comes to conducting a feminist foreign policy. Finally, Madam President, how big is Swedish exports, and where does it go? More than one third of exports go to EU countries. When you listen to this debate you can get the impression that the focus of Swedish exports is somewhere else in the world, but less than 2% of exports go to countries in the Middle East. Of these exports, the vast majority is what is known as other armaments, that is, products with what is called dual uses. It can even be about blankets and fabrics. Once in the world charcoal was counted there. We can see that, among the largest countries to which we export, we find Brazil, Pakistan, India, the United States, Hungary, the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands and Norway. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the Committee on Foreign Affairs' proposal for a decision and report.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-623	Madam President, I would like After having been in principle hand-held for four years in the face of Sweden's arms exports and other interference with the warring parties in the Yemeni conflict, the January Agreement's wording in paragraph 70 was a positive change in government policy. Despite the fact that we have had a Social Democratic-led government for five months now, we have seen no initiative on paragraph 70 and a stop to arms exports to the countries participating in the Yemeni war. I have put a lot of effort into understanding what the various parties want, and through written questions and the like we have been made clear that it is running quite a lot. The fact that the government has not done anything during the period has consequences and contributes to Sweden's continued active support for the warring parties. Fredrik Malm wanted an example, and I will take one. In February 2019, the arms exhibition IDEX was held in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Among the companies that marketed themselves in the country were Swedish Saab, and during the arms fair Saab deepened a collaboration with its Emirati partner Tawazun. The agreement signed on the ground is the next step towards production and development activities in Abu Dhabi. At the signing of IDEX as well as at Saab's opening of operations in the country in 2017, the Swedish ambassador participated in Abu Dhabi as part of the Swedish export support. According to the ambassador, the agreement in the 73-point programme does not affect the mission of the embassy to support the export of armaments to the United Arab Emirates as the position is not included in the government declaration or the foreign policy declaration. The Embassy has close links with Saab and provides support for the company's sales in the country, in meetings between Saab and leading Emirati business representatives. Madam President, I would like Now the Social Democracy has the opportunity to show clarity. Does paragraph 70 mean anything? Has the government done anything to make its implementation a reality?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-627	Madam President, I would like To begin with, we note that the letter we have is about arms exports in 2018. During that year no new exit permit was granted to Saudi Arabia. To the United Arab Emirates, three successive deliveries were granted, but no new deals were granted. These consequent deliveries amount to SEK 70 million, and all three are related to other war material, i.e. dual-use equipment. As regards the ambassador's statement that the activities of the embassy are not affected by the paragraph of the 73-point programme, I must agree with the ambassador. It is not Swedish embassies that manage Swedish export control, but we have a special authority for that. I think Håkan Svenneling is well acquainted with this. What our embassies are going to do is, among other things, export promotion. Then any business that comes out of this will be tested in the usual order we have. This is a order that we shall continue to have. It is important that, with a decision here in Parliament last year, we have tightened export control legislation and introduced a democracy criterion. We note that even before we took the decision, the Armaments Inspectorate said that the proposal in hand had a normative effect on both the permits they gave and the requests they received. The new legislation is therefore stronger and better than the previous one. It will also have an effect in these cases in the case of countries participating in the war in Yemen. Of course, the item contained in the January agreement must also be taken into account.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-631	Madam President, I would like Consideration can be given to the regulatory effect of the legislation when the ambassador continues to participate in the signing of such agreements. It will be a rather strange use of Swedish resources by the state if our embassies are first to be used to promote the export of weapons and our authority ISP then says: No, it does not comply with the legislation. I think we should throw the embassy's resources into the lake, if I may be honest. Although I think we should follow the order that Kenneth G Forslund says very carefully that we should follow and I do not mind it, I think perhaps that you should use embassies in a better way. Another example that is close to a decision concerns the sale of Global Eye to the United Arab Emirates. It is a planned sale that has not yet been completed. There are leaked documents showing that the former Erieye system has been used in the blockade of Yemen and that it has not received, among other things, humanitarian aid and food for Yemen to the extent that would have been necessary. Sales can be stopped on the basis of existing regulations, but the government must make a decision. This boils down to what you really think and think about this legislation and what you think the point means and whether you intend to proceed with this type of sale even though you have said in an agreement with three other parties that you should not sell arms to the warring parties. Kenneth is taking down what level it is, for Swedish exports to Saudi Arabia, for example, have gone from very high levels to almost no exports at all today. I thank the Left Party and believe that it is very much to our credit that there has been a debate on the various types of events that have taken place with Saudi Arabia. However, we must not forget that the United Arab Emirates and a number of other Arab states in the coalition led by Saudi Arabia also receive significant arms exports from Europe and from Sweden.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-635	Madam President, I would like In terms of how the embassies use their resources and the export promotion work, it is a discussion that can be held within the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and with the embassies. I have no closer knowledge of exactly what products and services they were possibly trying to contribute to the marketing of. There could be a lot in that briefcase, we know. When it comes to Global Eye and the delivery to the United Arab Emirates of what has been ordered since before, Håkan Svenneling and Left Party have absolutely one point. We have a delicate question ahead of us when it is ready for delivery, but one should be clear that it is a deal that has been approved since before. It's not equipment that's screwed up from one week to another. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to point out that the low level of exports of consequential supplies that Sweden has had over the past year to the United Arab Emirates has, after all, a significantly less impact on the conflict that is going on in Yemen than the work on peace and mediation that has been carried out here in Sweden and that Sweden has been pushing for in the UN Security Council. I think that affects the conflict far more than the export of other war material for SEK 70 million.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-638	Madam President, I would like When I listened to Kenneth G. Forslund's argument for arms exports, I almost thought that now he wants a line. When he motivates Swedish armaments exports because Sweden is not part of any military alliance and is not a member of NATO, I find it difficult to really understand how this goes together. This would, of course, lead to an exciting discussion with our other partner countries, which are NATO countries. We also have a special relationship in the export context with the NATO countries. Let's think about it. Would it be that we have war material manufacturing and that we need it because we are not a NATO member? Then look at the large NATO members who have much of the vital armaments that we in Sweden also need for our operations. It is quite clear that without close cooperation with, for example, the United States, a lot of our Swedish defence is not working. We are totally dependent on the NATO countries. It is clear that NATO membership would not make this cooperation more difficult. But basically we have a NATO presence in our entire defence, in our armaments production and in our exports. I therefore wonder how the argument with NATO gets into the issue of the framework for arms exports. There is no record, and there is no specific material.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-641	Madam President, I would like Perhaps I expressed myself unclearly. What I mean is that in order for Sweden to be able to be non-aligned, which I believe Sweden should be, we need – if we want a high-tech defence – also to have our own defence industry. If we are to be able to pay for purchases from this industry at reasonable prices to the Swedish Armed Forces, there must also be an export. So there needs to be a defence industry in Sweden, and it needs to be able to export in order for Sweden to be able to remain outside NATO. Without the defence industry and without exports, the pressure would be very severe on Sweden – if we want to continue to have a high-tech defence, and I think we should have – to join NATO in order to buy the high-tech equipment that we reasonably need for the Swedish defence. That's what I'm thinking. This is not about the regulations themselves, but it is a practical consequence of wanting to be non-aligned, as we Social Democrats want to be, and seeing a link to the need to be able to have a defence industry to support the Swedish Armed Forces. Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party have a different ambition regarding the freedom of alliance and now want to join NATO. Perhaps it is then a minor problem if we do not have an export.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-644	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that Sweden needs both a defence industry and an export, because we are part of a larger community to build, develop and ensure that we have the opportunity to defend ourselves in a difficult environment. Then we need to make a joint effort. That is also why we are working together in the European Union to try to develop our work. Madam President, I would like For me, the argument about the military freedom of alliance in this case is being very pushy. Regardless of how you choose NATO membership or not, it is important that we have an armaments industry in Sweden that can contribute to the common benefit, and the common benefit we reach together in the EU and with NATO friends. This is the starting point for continuing to assert exports and to continue to assert a Swedish armaments industry but also a good cooperation.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-646	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren said in her previous reply that we were totally dependent on these collaborations and trade with the outside world. I would describe it as being very dependent. However, if we did not have arms exports and did not have our own armaments industry, we would be totally dependent, and then our choices would drastically reduce our relationship with NATO and whether we should be members or not. That was something I wanted to point out in my main speech, because there are parties in this Parliament who do not want arms exports or NATO membership. I would argue that the two positions cannot be reconciled.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-648	Madam President, I would like We have to deal with a motion for a resolution on security policy. In fact, the text presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs can be divided into three parts: how Swedish defence capabilities and thus Swedish security can be strengthened with the Swedish Defence Committee's report as a basis, how Sweden can seek active participation in security policy cooperation, including NATO, and finally how the important work against weapons of mass destruction must continue. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and I have a clear yes to all three of these questions. Yes, we must strengthen the defence and thereby safeguard national security. This must be done by providing sufficient funds so that the direction for the coming years identified by the Defence Committee can be realised. It is with great regret that it must be noted that the Social Democrats failed the preparation and that the final report could only scrape up signatures from the somewhat odd constellation of S, SD, V and MP. Yes, we must strengthen security in the Baltic Sea region and thus safeguard peace. This is done through continued investment in Sweden's defence and by achieving binding defence guarantees and a functioning defence planning with other countries through a Swedish NATO membership. Finally, yes, we must take disarmament issues very seriously. That is why the Non-Proliferation Treaty – the so-called NPT agreement – is important. Several nuclear weapons states are also involved in this work. On the other hand, the government's inability to speak clearly about the so-called ban on nuclear weapons risks Sweden's interests through the uncertainty it creates in its close friends and undermines the disarmament and non-proliferation work that is going on through the NPT. It is a fact that is also confirmed by the government's own investigator, who clearly recommended that the government not sign and ratify the so-called Nuclear Weapons Agreement. Every day that the government and the Social Democrats tell us clearly that they do not intend to proceed with this so-called ban, uncertainty and uncertainty remain. Madam President, I would like On the part of the Moderates, we say: Yes, yes, yes. Madam President, I would like Let's start with the Defense Committee. The Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals are clear about the way forward. Swedish security must be paid. First, a safety policy analysis that points to a deterioration in the situation around the Baltic Sea. The preparation states that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. ..................................................... All of this requires action. This is why a defence policy approach is also proposed, involving both the withdrawal of previously lost capabilities and the preparation of future reinforcements. A basic prerequisite for the preparation work has been that at least SEK 84 billion will be needed for the military part of the total defense – equivalent to 1.5 per cent of GDP in 2025. And so let the Social Democrats announce that the party cannot stand up for the economy. By crashing the conditions for preparation, M, C, KD and L act clearly and clearly. Then the conditions for a co-signatory on our part have fallen. SD, on the other hand, chooses to co-sign together with S, V and MP. What do the other parties say? Yes, it is also clear, but not as part of the final report, but in the form of clear political positions in annexes. The Green Party says in its annex that the military budget contribution may need to increase at a lower rate. The Left, on the other hand, believes that the increase of 84 billion proposed by the preparatory work is too great. The Social Democrats want to divide the conclusions of the preparation and leave the determination of the exact level to political negotiations beyond preparation. They believe that it needs to be made clear what are the main priorities through a number of economic levels of ambition in package form. We Moderates say no to this and yes to a forthcoming defence decision in accordance with the conclusions of the preparation and thus at least 84 billion to 2025, corresponding to 1.5 percent of the bnp to the military defence within the framework of the total defence. Madam President, I would like Views of the preparation are also developed in a special opinion signed by the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. Madam President, I would like The defense committee makes the following assessment – which all members of the preparation, previously as at present, should be aware of: Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. Sweden will inevitably be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurs in our neighbourhood. ..................................................... If you now have the view that the Defence Committee in rather broad agreement, except the Left Party, expresses – what are the consequences? How Do You View the World? For me, at least, safety is being built and shaped with others, Madam President. If you find that Sweden will inevitably be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurs in our neighbourhood, it is natural to seek support, help and collaboration with others. The absolute best and most effective way is to create defence guarantees. This exists within the framework of NATO membership, through Article 5. In the Swedish debate there are those who sometimes reason as if help would come. If you are not a member, you can believe, hope, wish, appeal and will, Madam President, but know that other countries come to Sweden and the nation's help you can only as a member. That is why we have developed this through a host country agreement and an enhanced partnership with NATO. We are practicing with other countries; just a few months ago, a major NATO exercise was conducted in Norway, which was just practicing the host country agreement. At that time Sweden fought side by side with Norway against the intended aggressor. So how do we move on? Well, I mean we should do exactly as stated, among other things, in the investigation of Krister Bringéus: by building security with others. We are securing peace in the Baltic Sea region through a Swedish NATO membership. Here I am pleased that there is a joint reservation from four parties, namely the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. Finally, I think it is extremely important that we have consistent and concise work against weapons of mass destruction. It is vital, then, that the countries that are the holders of nuclear weapons should be brought with them. The so-called nuclear ban does not have those countries behind it, but the non-proliferation treaty does. Officially, five countries are expected to hold nuclear weapons, Madam President. Everyone in this House and everyone in Sweden knows that there are more than that – we can add North Korea, Pakistan and India – and therefore it is important that we seriously do something to limit nuclear proliferation. This is best done through the so-called NPT process. It is therefore interesting to have the opportunity to ask the Social Democrats what they think about the ban on nuclear weapons, which has so far done us some damage abroad. Madam President, I would like I have three questions for the Social Democrats. Could you please state the political level and ambition of Sweden's military defence until 2025? Can you understand the arguments put forward for membership of NATO? The Social Democrats in Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, Denmark and Norway are in favour of this. When is the announcement of a "no" to the nuclear ban? Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 1 in paragraph 1 and of reservation 5 in paragraph 2. The latter is a joint reservation from four parties for a Swedish NATO membership.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-670	Madam President, I would like When we talk about security policy, our eyes are usually directed outside the country's borders, but unfortunately we are now increasingly allowed to focus our eyes on the country's borders too. In many parts of the country, preparations for summer leave have really started. Elsewhere in the country there is a challenge of an unprecedented magnitude, namely the reception of the returning IS terrorists who have been allowed to establish a sanctuary in our beautiful summer country. More than 40 municipalities around the country are now preparing to receive returning terrorists who have committed the most ruthless crimes against humanity across the Middle East, in the name of the Islamic State. With the good memory of the Swedish state, they have travelled to a distant country with the intention of raping, decapitating and executing anyone who does not believe in an Islamic caliphate. They've broken up families and put thousands of innocent people on the run. Those guilty of these atrocities are still unpunished. These war criminals are instead if not already among us so on their way back to our safe, beautiful summer country. They are currently on their way back to Sweden because, like us, they know that the sanctions for these crimes against humanity in any case in Sweden are almost non-existent. We do not know what to expect, but Sweden is certainly ill-equipped to face the new terrorist threat posed by these returning terrorists. The fact that the terrorist threat of these returnees has become more acute at this very time is due to the fact that what was once the Islamic State has now fallen. One thing that has not changed, however, is Sweden's very limited ability to face these new, serious threats. In the new Sweden, these threats have become everyday life. It is because of the continued irresponsible immigration policy of the other parties that the Swedish people are now forced to relate to a new, uncertain everyday life characterised by insecurity. Last night, June 11, the Security Service went out and sounded the alarm about the explosive increase in Islamic extremists and extremist environments around Sweden. In recent times, six leading Muslim leaders have been taken into custody in Sweden and terror camp in anticipation of expulsion. However, if enforcement barriers exist, i.e. if those accused of terrorism are at risk of capital punishment or torture in their home countries, Sweden does not expose the terrorists. According to Swedish law, these extremists can be detained for a maximum of three months before they have to be released again and again live in the midst of us. These laws, or rather the absence of justifiable laws in the area of terror, are the responsibility of this House. Säpo now announces that it is no longer about hundreds but about thousands of Islamic extremists who, with the good conscience of the other parliamentary parties, walk freely on the streets of Sweden. The Swedish democrats have long pointed out security risks linked to the callless immigration policy of the social liberal establishment. Today, the day after the announcement of Säpo, I wonder if the other parties wish to think differently before allowing thousands of potential terrorists to settle in our beautiful summer country. Perhaps the fact that the government has not taken action worthy of the seriosity of the situation is because it lacks the ability to see the gravity of the situation for families who have been living next door to terrorists capable of crimes against humanity for some time. The existence of radicalized Islamist terrorists in our midst is one of the most absurd security risks our country has ever seen, and it is the result of the long-standing and irresponsible migration and security policy of the government and the social liberal establishment. We can only regret the naivety of the other parties and continue to fight against the long-standing and irresponsible policy of the social liberal establishment. Madam President, I would like Security policy is a broad concept and does not just include our kingdom's internal security, although it is difficult today to talk about any internal security worthy of the name. In the current situation, it could be argued that the core pillar of government security policy is rather the almost total absence of – indeed – security. When Sweden's internal security is threatened by returning IS terrorists, our ability to meet the external threats our country has to deal with is weakened. The fact that Sweden has external threats to relate may sound incredible to a government and the social liberal establishment that has abolished Swedish defence and our society's civil defence capabilities in recent decades. But Sweden will not be safer because we put our heads in the sand when the enemies of our society and the free world are at hand. As we see the internal threat of Islamist terrorism spreading across the continent, we see Russia and China doing their part in challenging our Western world order. While Ukraine is still under Russian occupation, the Swedish Armed Forces will have to settle for the bread crumbs left over after the billions the government would rather spend on other things. Madam President, I would like With an increasingly aggressive and expansionist China, traditional European loyalties are challenged. This threatens the freedom of European countries, as well as the Swedish. Examples of this are the strategically made Chinese acquisitions within a plethora of particularly protective societal functions in areas such as infrastructure and critical information technologies. These state-funded acquisitions are made with the aim of increasing Chinese political influence in Sweden and around Europe. With devastating consequences for self-determination, most countries in need of rapid liquidity have made significant geopolitical concessions to increasingly totalitarian China. We look with concern at this development and realise that Sweden is not the exception to these new security challenges like the Chinese one. On the contrary, we believe that Sweden may be a particular target for Chinese influence operations, and the need to meet these threats is great. Sweden needs a clearer Swedish stance that promotes Swedish security interests in relation to an increasingly expansionist China. In view of the security threat posed by China, the government's lax handling of the Chinese threat appears to be almost naive, if not uninformed. Through a Swedish and, in the second place, Nordic strategy for China, and not just an EU-wide China strategy, Sweden can protect its own people's interests without making itself dependent on where other countries put their loyalty. Madam President, I would like With the facts in hand, we know that it was particularly unwise to slaughter the Swedish defence, not least in the light of a Russia which, since the fall of the Soviet Union, has once again not only armed itself strongly, but has also begun to claim the territory of neighbouring countries. Ukraine is not the only reminder that once it burns, it is too late to take out fire insurance. Former governments, both socialist and liberal, have used the defence as a cash cow to finance other reforms and disastrous policies. Now, five over twelve, the rest of the parties have woken up, and the vast majority are now standing up for a rearmament of the defense. It is, of course, welcome, even if it is on the last team. The defense committee's report is gratifying reading. Unfortunately, however, not all parties have chosen to sign the report, even if they agree with the content. If the government is now going to do something serious about what they say remains to be seen. The only thing we can say at this point with certainty about the government's security policy is that Sweden's security can obviously wait something. Some of the parties here in Parliament believe that Swedish membership of NATO would ensure our security. We in the Swedish Democrats see NATO as a natural partner and faithful friend in promoting Swedish security. It is only in cooperation with other countries in our neighbourhood that we can counter the threats that are being posed to us. But a Swedish membership of NATO would not mean a safer Sweden at present. This is a fact. We do not believe that geopolitical stability in the Baltic Sea region would benefit from a Swedish, or indeed a Finnish, NATO membership, but we would like to see a Swedish-Finnish defensive defence alliance instead. Some in here may remember how we in Sweden long proclaimed that Finland's thing is ours, but it is also true today that Sweden's thing is Finland's. A defensive defence alliance between Sweden and Finland offers the best of Swedish alliance freedom while at the same time providing us with increased defence capabilities in cooperation with a neighbour we have a lot in common with. It is not in Sweden's national interest to upset the geopolitical stability that today and yesterday shaped the Baltic Sea region. Nor are we prepared to sacrifice the security that Swedish freedom of alliance means and has meant. The Socialist and Liberal parties are responsible for the security policy analysis that has led us to where we are today. That is why we do not have the ability to defend ourselves against either the internal or external threats we face. Letting the same parties that have abolished Swedish defence dictate the future of Swedish security policy is not worthy of the Swedish people's security. It also includes the analysis that some are making of NATO membership stabilising our region. It is a completely incorrect analysis, and behind that analysis are the same parties that have done the analysis that it was very good to dismantle the entire Swedish defence capability and that it was stable in our surrounding world. The Swedish people deserve a government that takes national security seriously, for real. We are prepared to stand up for a security policy that puts Sweden's security first. It is only reasonable that Swedish security policy puts Swedish interests first. To conclude, Madam President, we naturally support all our reservations, but for the winning time we only call for reservations 6 and 9. I'm sorry I've been running out of time.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-697	Madam President, I would like It was somewhere at 4.45 in the speech that I began to hear what the report itself was about, but it compensated Björn Söder well, Madam President, by extending the time to a little over ten minutes. I have two questions for Björn Söder. I'll take the first one here and the second in the second line. I think there are many people who are amazed that the Swedish Democrats chose to use their party's signature during the Defence Committee's report together with the Left Party, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats. Four parties did not sign the report of the Defence Committee: the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. They did so because they were clearly clear that it takes at least 84 billion – equivalent to 1.5 per cent of GDP – to implement the proposal of the Defence Committee. The Green Party said it might need less than that. The Left Party was honest and was very clear that it needed significantly less than 84 billion. The Social Democrats have experimented with the desire to set priorities in different packages. Everyone distances themselves from this level. It is with these three parties that the Swedish Democrats have signed the Swedish Defence Committee's report. Could Björn Söder, Madam President, develop his own signature in the light of this? I would like to make it very clear that we from the other parties intend to do everything we can to try to realise the defence committee's intentions in terms of military and civil defence in order to build a total defence. This will require an increase in economic levels. As far as military defence is concerned, we are talking about at least 84 billion, equivalent to 1.5% of GDP. Four parties have been very clear about this. I must honestly say that I think three other parties have been quite clear about what they want to do, namely something lower or substantially lower. It is interesting that the Swedish Democrats' signature for the party can be found side by side with the Left Party, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-705	Madam President, I would like We chose to sign the Defence Committee's report because we sympathise with the content that has been found. We think it is a very solid piece of work, and we regret that the Moderates, Christian Democrats, Liberals and the Center Party did not choose to sign the report. I am also aware that previous governments have not committed themselves in connection with the Defence Committee's reports in relation to the economy. That was probably the strongest criticism from Hans Wallmark and his colleagues when it came to not signing. Now I myself have not been in the Defence Committee as Hans Wallmark has done, so he certainly has much better insight into how the discussions went about the financial side. One should be clear that the Swedish Democrats are the only party in the Swedish parliament that has constantly talked about how important it is to equip Swedish defence capabilities and been critical of the disarmament that not least Hans Wallmark's party contributed to during the years 2006– 2014. Since we entered Parliament, we have been talking about this all along. It has been for deaf ears; no one has listened. As late as the 2014 election year, when the former Alliance lost the government power, the Minister of Defence Karin Enström stood at the National Conference of the People and Defence and said that the basis for the design of the defence would still be the same, because the security policy situation in the Baltic Sea region was more stable then ten years ago. It was in the middle of burning Majdan protests. It was just after Russia had completed its greatest military exercise since the fall of the Soviet Union. It was only in the spring when Säpo went out and said that we were faced with a real threat of war that the Moderates turned overnight. We think the Defense Committee's report is very good.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-711	Madam President, I would like The parties that have not signed it think that the Defence Committee's report is so good that it requires funding. That is what distinguishes the four parties that have not signed against at least three of those who have signed. The Swedish democrats themselves will have to think about this. The interesting thing about the debate that has been since the final report of the Swedish Defence Committee was submitted is that the Swedish Democrats have consistently sided with the Social Democrats. They have put the critical questions to the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, but not to those parties who express in writing doubts about the economic level that is intended to be needed to realize the Defence Committee's report. Madam President, I would like I have a second question for the Swedish Democrats. The reservation under paragraph 6 on NATO states: and it is therefore important that Sweden is not part of a military alliance that can upset the balance in our neighbourhood. That kind of argument also developed Björn Söder in his speech. Does this not mean that you are transferring responsibility for Swedish security policy and Swedish security policy considerations from the Swedish Parliament and this House to somewhere else? It is fear of how someone else should reason, act and handle that makes you hesitate. Madam President, I would like Björn Söder described NATO as a faithful friend. That's also a problem. A number of parties and a number of politicians believe, hope, wish and want NATO to be able to act on behalf of Sweden if something really bad happens and an armed conflict. But you can't know. Madam President, I would like That's why it's so curious. It is said that one can imagine a defence alliance with one country but rejects cooperation with 29 other countries that provide binding defence guarantees and joint defence planning. How does that make sense, Madam President?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-717	Madam President, I would like I'm returning to the final report of the Defense Committee. The parties that chose not to sign deserve criticism. Of course, the government and government parties will have to answer when the budget is to be presented if you are not prepared to finance it. The Swedish democrats are the only party that has consistently been involved in and financed in their draft budgets an upgrading of Swedish defence capabilities. At the same time, the Moderates, among other things, were involved and slaughtered. When it comes to the ability to analyse, Hans Wallmark's party has not been so good in that class with the ability to analyse it. The fact that we are now making the analysis that the best thing is if we join NATO is also proof that we lack analytical capacity. Should we join NATO, Finland will in all likelihood join NATO. What happens to the Baltic Sea? It will be an internal sea of NATO countries. Does it create stability or instability in our region? It is stupidity and naivety if you do not take the outside world into account when making safety policy assessments. The belief that it will not upset – no matter what we think – the geopolitical stability of our area shows once again that we are not doing the right analyses. That, of course, will create instability. Is it then positive or negative for Sweden? I don't see it as positive. On the other hand, it is a defensive defence alliance with Finland where we raise the threshold effect. It creates geopolitical stability because it will also be accepted by the outside world on both sides. This should be done with continued close cooperation with NATO, of course. We get together and so on. We have Partnership for Peace and so on. That's great, and we're gonna keep doing that. But membership will mean that we put Sweden and the Swedish people in a serious security policy situation. We are not prepared to do that. Once again, the ability to analyse the other seven parties has not been good, and it is still not good in any case for those who advocate membership of NATO. I wouldn't put my faith in them.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-725	Madam President, I would like The war in Ukraine is ongoing. People die daily in eastern Ukraine. The illegal annexation of Crimea is continuing, as is the occupation of eastern Ukraine. Some see, and some close their eyes. We are seeing developments in Ukraine and how sailors are still being held in Russian prisons after Kerchsund's engagement on the Russian side. We see how the Crimean Tatars are again being displaced or how oppositional prisoners are being imprisoned. We also see Georgia. It has often been seen in Swedish security policy debates as the awakening, and that was probably the case. It was an addition to the former Defence Committee to consider another shipyard based on the war of Georgia in 2008. Both South Ossetia and Abkhazia are still occupied and almost annexed. That is up to 25% of Georgia's territory. In this situation, the question can and should be asked: does the European security regime exist when one of the major players in the European security architecture, Russia, has so clearly violated the order in force and has also broken the geopolitical stability that has existed? It should be seen at the same time as we all note that others are also helping to undermine and undermine the multilateral structures that have been heavy on not least Sweden for a long time. Swedish safety is, of course, wider than the environment around the Baltic Sea and in our part of the world. It's not just about military threats. I would like to emphasise what is said about climate change and the effects it can have on our security and global security. There are, of course, cyber threats, terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. There is a wide range of challenges that our security policy must seek to address. In this context, I would like to point out the need from the Swedish side. Now we focus on and see more from the reality we have in the near context, not least in our Baltic Sea region. We must not forget and repeat the mistakes of throwing the pendulum from one side to the other. Let us not forget that we are affected here at home by what is happening far over there. As far as we are concerned, we still think that there is reason to emphasise the importance of us being able to assert international efforts also militarily. It is important if we manage to jointly stabilise and create conditions for development in countries far away from Sweden. If there is more written in the first reservation we have from the Center Party, reservation No 3, which I would also like to refer to. Madam President, I would like The report is clearly affected by the breakdown of the Committee on Defence five to twelve. This has emerged from the debate that has been held so far. We from the Center Party did not participate in the final adjustment. It has also been clear and made clear. That is why we do not disagree with the text highlighted in the report, the missive of the Committee on Defence. It almost seems that everyone else has had divergent opinions and annexes to the preparation, but we have not had it. That is, of course, because we have not finished adjusting it. That is why there is a special opinion that marks the position of the Center Party on the defence committee's conclusions, and I would also like to refer to this here. Madam President, I would like Sweden will undoubtedly use all the security policy instruments at our disposal, as I mentioned the UN, the OSSE and the EU. But they are not enough to protect and secure if the worst happens. They cannot cope with the grey-zone conflicts or grey-zone challenges that we face. It has become overexplicit in many ways in recent years, as Russia, not least, has been a challenger in our part of the world but also in the UN and in the UN context. When we discuss Ukraine or other conflicts – be it Syria – it turns out that it does not work when the situation is sharp. It is therefore obvious to us, of course, that security policy should cooperate through membership of NATO. We have chosen this path on the basis of a new reality, where we do not think it is enough to talk about solidarity without being able to guarantee it. And when we guarantee others, which we think we should be able to do, we not only want to hope for such guarantees or solidarity, but we want to sign agreements, do so through membership and get security guarantees for real. It is, of course, a choice that we have to make. In a situation where geopolitical stability has been broken, we see the need to plug the insecurity holes created in our part of the world. We need to raise the thresholds in order not to risk what is not happening actually happening, that we are threatened to act in one direction or another because we are weaker ourselves and others do not guarantee our safety. Alone is not strong. Alone with Finland may be a little stronger, but we cannot face the challenges we face. To conclude, Madam President, I would also like to mention the weapons of mass destruction that really threaten us all, in new forms as well. Here there is every reason for us to work intensively to assert the global nuclear disarmament instrument that exists. The global basis is, of course, the NPT, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, with the review conference next year. It must not be the next multilateral structure that is falling, for it would be an extremely hard blow to disarmament work globally – the only instrument in which both nuclear states and non-nuclear states have united. If it should be broken up, we have an even more serious reality to deal with. Therefore, all the focus must be on lifting and asserting nuclear disarmament efforts. It may be the Test Ban Treaty, it may be to find ways to raise the bar and increase security instruments in the systems. But the NPT must not be compromised, must not be kidnapped by those who want to. And there are quite a few people who are interested in breaking this up, sometimes also actually for nonprofit reasons or because you have not joined certain parts of it yourself. Then, of course, one chooses to argue also for nuclear bans, because it seems right. But it leads to error and could ultimately put at risk the whole work of disarmament that we have fought so hard to maintain. Madam President, I would like Of course, we in the Center Party support all our reservations, and I only ask for reservation 5 under paragraph 2 and reservation 14 under paragraph 4.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-740	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren, the Center Party, and other NATO advocates often refer to Article 5 and that we have defence guarantees from NATO if we become members. But it is a mutual guarantee, that is, if other NATO countries are attacked, they can ask for help from Sweden. The increasingly totalitarian Turkey, under the leadership of Mr Erdo中an, is, as is well known, a member of NATO. My question to Kerstin Lundgren is whether Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party are prepared to send Swedish soldiers to Turkey to support totalitarian Turkey if they are attacked and demand such help from Sweden.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-742	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that you, as a NATO member, have an obligation to do so, but it is a joint decision-making process. What is important is that we sit around the table when decisions are to be taken, because it is collegiate decision-making in NATO. There is a difference, Björn Söder, between sitting at the table and being on the side. As in many other contexts, it is, of course, a matter of preconditions. If Turkey and Mr Erdo中an are acting in a totally devastating way, as they are doing now, it is now increasingly questioning whether their NATO membership can be completed. There are quite a few now who are discussing to what extent Turkey can continue to be a member of NATO following the Russian procurement they have made. We'll see where it lands. But in the context that can now be predicted from how Turkey has acted, it would of course not be appropriate to send Swedish soldiers there. On the other hand, it would be appropriate for Russia to enter one of our Baltic neighbours. I think it is an important question if Björn Söder, who talks about solidarity, is prepared to ensure that we send Swedish soldiers to the Baltic if Russia should challenge and step into the border.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-745	Madam President, I would like I do not think that you can both eat the cake and keep it or sit and pick the raisins out of the cake, and that shows once again the flawed analysis. If you are a member of NATO and then declare that you will not be willing to send assistance under Article 5 of the NATO Treaty to different countries, does Kerstin Lundgren think that you can claim the defence guarantee as a basis for Swedish membership? Then, of course, other countries will respond the same way to Sweden. What kind of defense guarantee is that? So that argument has fallen flat. Either you're in or you're out. One cannot simply say that it is important to sit at the table during the negotiations, but no, we will not be taking part if there is any other country that is being attacked, because then we will be choosing and wrecking. If Kerstin Lundgren thinks that the other countries should act the same way, I do not think that we can assume that we will get help. If we join NATO, the Baltic countries are being attacked and we send armed troops there, then of course we have declared war on an attacking party. Then I wonder what Kerstin Lundgren is doing to analyse the Swedish ability to wage war when we do not have a defence to talk about. Once again, this shows that we have not thought fully. It is a complete lack of analytical ability that characterises the parties that claim Swedish membership of NATO in time and without time. It has not been thought about what it will look like in reality. It is much easier to sit and say that NATO membership saves our defence capabilities, so we do not have to think about equipping it, because now we are not even signing the final report of the Defence Committee. In some way, we want to focus all the time on the fact that Swedish membership of NATO strengthens Swedish defence capabilities – when we are not prepared to contribute to NATO's defence capabilities ourselves.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-751	Madam President, I would like I think Björn Söder needs to think a little bit more about this with analytical ability. What we have stated as a reason why we do not sign the final report of the Defence Committee is that we do not fund. At the turn of the line with Hans Wallmark, we heard that the Swedish Democrats sign a check that lacks funding, and on that basis I would be a little careful to talk about analytical ability in terms of interventions. We have been clear and are clear in the report that we want to strengthen the Swedish total defence. We have a clear target of at least 1.5% in the next defence decision, as the special opinion also shows. It's an important signal. This and our NATO membership is not about us running away or letting someone else take responsibility. We are clear and also signal the target figure of 2%. We stand up for our ability, but we also see that the geopolitical stability that Björn Söder is talking about no longer exists. In our part of Europe, it has been broken by Russia's actions. Madam President, I would like What do the Swedish Democrats choose to do? They adapt, back up, and say: Let us not wake up the bear we hope to sleep. Let's sit quietly. Madam President, I would like It is a method that others in Europe have tried, and it has not contributed to security. Instead, this analysis has contributed to others stepping in militarily, today also with grey zone activities, to influence and change because they know that alone is afraid and cautious and adapt – just as Björn Söder wants to do when it comes to Swedish security. For that, Madam President, I am paying attention.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-757	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a long history of alliance freedom. The Left Party believes that freedom of alliance has served Sweden well and should be protected. Military alliance freedom is the best basis for an independent foreign policy and for peace and disarmament. That is why we are opposed to all the steps towards NATO. On 27 March, the Parliamentary Board decided to agree to allow the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to hold its Spring Session in this House in 2021. Only members and ministers of the Parliament may speak in Parliament unless a specific decision has been taken. This has happened on two previous occasions: when UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali spoke here in 1995 and when UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan made a speech here in 1999. The UN is the world's largest peace organisation, and the fact that the Swedish Parliament gave the secretaries-general the opportunity to speak here was right and two very wise decisions, Madam President. Recently, the Speaker addressed a request from the Green Party to allow the Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg to speak in Parliament's Chamber. The Green Party, in accordance with the regulations, received no at this request. It was considered better to use one of Parliament's other halls. It was a sad but also expected decision in view of the current regulatory framework. So to the exception with large U. Thus, when the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is granted access to this House, it allows the world's largest war organisation to use Sweden's most important parliamentary space for its purposes. This is done on the grounds of profiling the Swedish defence industry. The Left Party is very critical of the fact that the Swedish Parliament is giving its place to NATO. The explanatory statement says that the arrangement will increase NATO's popular anchoring, give the opportunity to highlight the challenges in the Baltic Sea region and profile the Swedish defence industry. We believe that it is not the Parliament's task to increase NATO's popular base in Sweden or to promote Swedish armaments. The cost of 5.8 million is also worth mentioning in this context. The opening of Parliament's chambers to an external actor is very rare. The Left Party believes that there is an unfortunate symbolism in the fact that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is being held here. It challenges our freedom of alliance and does not help to increase our security. Sweden should not approach NATO. The NATO-led exercises taking place on Swedish soil, in our airspace and in our territorial waters shall cease, and NATO shall not be allowed to practice and test weapons systems within Sweden's borders. Sweden should therefore withdraw the Memorandum of Understanding on host country support with NATO. The Swedish people do not want NATO membership. The support for not joining NATO is still stronger than the support for joining. I can promise that we in the peace movement will organise major demonstrations when NATO is here, because we want to maintain our freedom of alliance. The freedom of the Alliance has served us well, and it will remain outside war for more than 200 years, and it will continue to do so for a long time to come. Madam President, I would like Even today, our close cooperation with NATO makes it difficult to conduct an independent foreign policy with credibility. It is evident not least in the unwillingness of the government and bourgeois parties to sign the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons because the NATO states have advised Sweden not to sign it. Nuclear weapons are the only weapons of mass destruction that can destroy all of humanity several times over. The use of barely one percent of today's nuclear arsenal would result in mass death and climate collapse resulting in misgrowth and mass starvation. A major nuclear war would make our planet uninhabitable for human life for the foreseeable future. Five years after 1945, when the atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, they had killed 340 000 people. To this day 200 000 people, survivors and their children, are being cared for for for damage and diseases caused by the American bombs. Many of us have probably recently seen the well-made television series Chernobyl. In a graphic story, we follow researcher Legasov's struggle to limit the damage caused by the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident. The Government's investigator Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin's investigation into whether Sweden should sign the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention or not has met with severe criticism from several experts as it is considered to be too one-sided and marked by serious factual errors. The Left Party agrees with the criticism and believes that several of the conclusions of the investigation referred to in the report by the committee are incorrect and poorly substantiated, including the fact that there is a conflict between the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention and the Non-Proliferation Treaty. In time of increased tension and armament, the nuclear issue is a matter of fate that can be compared to the climate issue. Therefore, Sweden should sign and ratify the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. I demand approval of the Left Party's reservation, number 7.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-775	Madam President, I would like It was probably not only the President who appreciated Håkan Svenneling's speech. Even I did. I think it is fresh to hear this kind of left-wing rhetoric. I believe that many Social Democrats share Håkan Svenneling's views but do not dare to express them. I think, perhaps regrettable but still, that he is representative of a wider left-wing circle than the one who always talks, and therefore it is important to listen to Håkan Svenneling – although he is wrong. Madam President, I would like Firstly, we can see that NATO is a defence alliance for common defence when someone has been attacked. Håkan Svenneling used the word. He is happy to use such rhetoric, but it is wrong rhetoric. Then Håkan Svenneling states that NATO will come here and speak for the Swedish parliament. That's not really true either. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly, corresponding to the NATO Council, including partner countries such as Sweden, will hold its session here, corresponding to the Council meeting. Madam President, I would like We open up Parliament's hall for other sessions. I believe that Håkan Svenneling has attended the session of the Nordic Council in this House. So it's nothing strange. I believe that the Youth Parliament is also being held here. I wouldn't describe it as a war organization either. So of course we open up the Swedish Parliament to various forms of gatherings, even if it should be done with thrift and care. NATO is an important partner for Sweden. Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling says that it will be demonstrated when NATO comes here, and I think that can be done. That is why we have a defence, namely the defence of democratic rights such as the right of demonstration. However, I do not think that there are many coming. I note that when they demonstrated against the so-called war exercise Aurora in 2017, there were 60 demonstrators in Gothenburg. 60 000 people came to Gärdet in 2017 to see the Swedish Armed Forces show up.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-780	Madam President, I would like I have to thank Hans Wallmark for the good description. I think that the Left Party has taken over the role of the Social Democrats in foreign policy. I find it sad sometimes to hear social democrats drifting closer to the Moderates and Hans Wallmark. On the NATO issue, this is a clear slippage. One example is that it allows the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to be here. I think it is very right to call NATO a war organisation. It is a defence alliance, as Mr Wallmark points out, but there is also a clear will for the armament of NATO. Its political leaders, let us say, Donald Trump, who is at the age of rule, are clearly saying right now that it is to be mobilized in all NATO countries in order to be present. There are also historical occasions when NATO or NATO countries, not in the form of NATO, have attacked other countries. We can see that historically in Serbia and Kosovo, for example. We can see that the invasion of Iraq had clear links with NATO and NATO countries. We can see that when it comes to the bombing of Libya. It is a bit so that when the NATO countries do not get the UN with them, they drive anyway. That is why I do not think we should have too good a description of NATO. It is an organization that involves actively using one's squad, more or less, if one is involved. When it comes to opening up the Riksdag, there are events when we do so, such as cultural nights, the Youth Parliament and similar contexts. I think that is basically a good thing. However, I am a little hesitant that the opening is justified by the fact that we should profile the Swedish arms industry or that we should do so in order to strengthen NATO's popular anchoring. I think it's good to have a popular Swedish defence. I think it's good that 60 000 people come to Gärdet and look at the Swedish defence. But I am very hesitant that we should do this on behalf of NATO.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-785	Madam President, I would like I'm glad Håkan Svenneling nuanced his position. Now he admits that this is a session that we will receive in the Swedish Parliament in the same way as we do with, for example, the Nordic Council, which is a correct description. Then, of course, we can have different views on NATO, and it is quite clear that there is a gulf between the opinion expressed by Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party together with the Swedish Democrats and the opinion that I take. Madam President, I would like I'm afraid I have to make Håkan Svenneling sad. I do not think we can see that drift towards a NATO wrangling from the Social Democrats described. I wish you could see it, and I can certainly give Håkan Svenneling the right idea that you can see a changed rhetorical model used by Sweden's Social Democrats. The kind of position that Håkan Svenneling expresses is very much in the Social Democrats but does not really come to much public expression. On the other hand, the party is basically still as monumental against a Swedish NATO membership as the Left Party, the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats. Perhaps the arguments are against a bit mixed, but it is a distinct block. I wish I could see that slip towards a moderate NATO view of Sweden's Social Democrats. It's not an odd idea. Social Democrats when it wears it and lives it in countries such as Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, Denmark and Norway. It is therefore very strange that the Social Democratic comrades are the only ones who reason just as the left-wing parties do in many of the European countries. I am also pleased that we can at least unite in one thing, Madam President, and it is the joy and pride that 60 000 Swedes joined the Gärdet in connection with the defence exercise Aurora 2017, which I believe the Left Party regarded as a war exercise, when the diversity of Swedish defence was demonstrated. The difference between the Left Party and the Moderates is that I and the Moderates want to pay for Sweden's defence.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-789	Madam President, I would like The Left Party and I are also prepared to pay for Sweden's defence. We have written clearly that we believe that the Swedish defence should be equipped. It is a reorientation made by the Left Party a number of years ago when Jonas Sjöstedt took office as party leader of the Left Party. I think it is an important marker that says that a Swedish defence is needed. Because it does if Sweden is to be non-aligned. But you do not have to join NATO, and I am pleased that the Social Democrats are still holding this line and saying that you should not join. However, I believe that there is a slippage within the Social Democracy, and although Mr Hans may wish for the slippage to go faster, I wish it to go slower. The gliding takes place when we invite NATO to the Swedish Parliament to hold the session of its parliamentary assembly because we are not members of NATO, and there is no reason to invite organisations to which we are not members. I find it difficult to see that there are other organisations with a similar position or other international organisations that we would invite. Should the Mercosur countries or the African Union be here? Why should they have a meeting in the Swedish parliament? I think the same question can be asked about NATO. Actually, I don't see the point of this slip. What we need to do instead is continue to develop our Swedish defence so that we can strengthen Swedish alliance freedom and stand up for our own foreign policy where we do not dance after Donald Trumps or Erdo中an's pipe. When the bourgeois argue, you hear that they want to join NATO, but they don't really want to join the NATO that exists right now. If they had a choice, they would join Finland together, kick Turkey out and see a different leader than Donald Trump – then NATO would be perfect. But the problem is that NATO will never be the perfect organisation, and that makes me think that one should be very careful to join that kind of defence alliance or war organisation, if you like to call it, as NATO is.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-793	Madam President, I would like I have two questions, or maybe two tracks, that I would like to raise. One is about the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. We, as parliamentarians, tend to insist on the need for parliamentarians to meet and for parliamentarians to have the opportunity to review the work of governments. We have a Swedish parliamentary delegation to NATO. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly was formalised in 1955 and is, of course, an important meeting place for discussing the security policy challenges that exist. It is not the decision-making body, because it is the governments that are, but it has the parliamentary scrutiny function. It is strange and a little surprising that the Left Party thinks that the Parliamentary Assembly is what should be said against. We are afraid of NATO at all, and perhaps we want to be able to build something against it. This is not about whether we are members or not, but about having a partnership for peace today. I believe that the Left Party has also supported this. We have a host country agreement, and we work very closely with NATO. We say in every context that the transatlantic link is important. I think that's what the Defense Committee says. Nevertheless, the Left Party does not wish to invite parliamentary assemblies. I think it's strange. The second track is the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Does the Left Party want to focus on the Non-Proliferation Treaty or the Prohibition Convention? Which option goes first?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-798	Madam President, I would like The NATO Parliamentary Assembly in the Riksdag is a rather small activity measured by parliamentary standards. It has five members: two from the Social Democrats, two from the Moderates and one from the Swedish Democrats. Neither the Left Party nor the Center Party is big enough to take a seat-- if we merged our parties, we could possibly take a place together. I believe that it will unfortunately be for some time to come that only these three parties are represented in the Parliamentary Assembly. At Kerstin Lundgren it sounds like we have no form of parliamentary assembly or discussion where we parliamentarians discuss the security situation. I'd say that's a very wrong description. To begin with, we meet in the Foreign Affairs Committee our Nordic neighbours and other countries around the world and discuss security policy and the situation. In addition, there is the Nordic Council, which Hans Wallmark mentioned, where there are often, and often on Hans Wallmark's own initiative, discussions on Swedish and Nordic security policy. I think this is an important forum. In addition, there is the International Parliamentary Union, the IPU, and, not to forget, the CFSP conferences discussing the EU's common foreign and security policy. I think it is well enough as a forum for Swedish parliamentarians to discuss security issues. In my opinion, we build security stronger together through discussions and dialogue with our Nordic neighbours in particular. I therefore defend the strong cooperation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. That is why I almost always accept travelling to Finland, Norway, Denmark or Iceland. This is also where we build our foundation. On Kerstin's second issue, I do not believe that there is any conflict between the NPT and the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons. I see great values in us signing both. We've signed the NPT. I think we should also sign the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. There is no need to prioritise. I think both apply. I'm going to fight for both to be fully applicable.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-805	Madam President, I would like If you were conspiratorial, you might think that the opposition to the presence of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Sweden and the Swedish Parliament was due to the fact that the Left Party is not allowed to participate. But it can't be that bad. What is surprising is that the Left Party wants to prevent the activities of a parliamentary assembly. Nevertheless, it is a parliamentary assembly to which we are sending Swedish delegates. It's the investigative body. In many contexts, we are trying to build and strengthen the parliamentary dimension of different structures. It may be in the Nordic Council, be it in the OSSE and it may be in the Council of Europe or the IPU, as was mentioned. There is indeed an activity in which governments work together, and we are bringing a parliamentary dimension. It is important to have the opportunity to meet here as well as to listen and discuss. It also gives Swedish parliamentarians, who do not otherwise appear in the delegation, an extra opportunity. Who knows? Perhaps Håkan Svenneling will also have the opportunity to discuss with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly during this period. I turn to the question of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. One line of argument that many support is that the Convention does not prevent or discourage the Non-Proliferation Treaty. But the risk is imminent. Many of those who have to be present in order for the Non-Proliferation Treaty to survive testify that this has strained so much salt in the wounds that it can be extremely difficult to heal and reach unity. It threatens the Convention on the Prohibition of Human Rights.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-809	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren highlights the parliamentary dimension. The Left Party always tries to participate when the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is visiting. I couldn't attend when they were last here, but we had representatives in place. I see it as self-evident that all parties, whether in favour of NATO or against NATO, are involved in the activities that take place in Parliament. But one thing should be clear about the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and also the Nordic Council. During the time I have followed Hans Wallmark's work to get Sweden to join NATO, he has used both of these forums as a platform to lift up a Swedish NATO membership. I don't think that's a description that Hans Wallmark objects to. I think it is a way for the Moderates to raise the NATO issue. I don't see anything wrong with that. It is active political work. But I think you have to see it. And I am a little surprised that the Social Democrats agree to such meetings here in the Swedish Parliament. I'm having a bit of a hard time seeing that point. Regarding the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the link with the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons, Kerstin Lundgren sees great risks. It is clear that at this time one may be concerned that the NPT would not stick together in a good way. We have seen that before Donald Trump, but perhaps above all now that we have Donald Trump, Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping and so on. They are authoritarian leaders who run their own race and among other things use Twitter rather than conversation and dialogue as a platform. This means that we as a country must stand up for the NPT. However, we must also be proactive in the long-term abolition of nuclear weapons. That is why the initiative that Mrs Wallström took yesterday, an international meeting with 15 countries, is a good one. That is a step in the right direction. But what happens to the NPT will be decided at the end of next year. It does not have to affect at all how Sweden should stand up to the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. If we want a nuclear-free world, we need to stand up for it – all the way.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-814	Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in the report. For time winning, I choose to agree only to reservation 5. Over the past few years, we have seen how Swedish security policy has been strengthened through bilateral cooperation and agreements with different parties, mainly with Finland but also with countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom. It has been and is essential collaborations that increase Sweden's ability to contribute to the goal, namely to increase stability and security. However, cooperation does not contain any defence guarantees. It has been pointed out many times from this very speaker's seat. Nevertheless, it is also relevant to mention on this occasion that Russia under Vladimir Putin has developed and developed in an increasingly authoritarian direction. Military armaments over time, combined with direct aggression and clear violations of international law, have led to increased instability, not least in the immediate vicinity of Sweden. The fact that President Putin is moving borders in today's Europe on his own and by force, and that Russia is militarily supporting some of the world's most brutal regimes, is today a reality. It is a reality that we have to relate to. The question is how Sweden as a nation, in the current situation, should act to best protect security and security. One thing is clear: no country today builds security on its own. Even the supporters of former neutrality do not claim that Sweden alone can defend itself against more extensive military attacks. Even the main promoters of alliance freedom do not believe that Sweden will be able to stand outside a military conflict in our neighbourhood. It is common that Western democracies build security. It is through reliable cooperation that threats to freedom, democracy and human dignity can be averted. Madam President, I would like As a warm supporter of the European Union and cooperation between nations, the Christian Democrats believe that Swedish membership of NATO best contributes to stability and security. Sweden has been one of NATO's partner countries for several years. Those who visit NATO headquarters in Brussels can see how well our country is integrated into the cooperation within the defence alliance and how appreciated the Swedish efforts in not least Afghanistan have been. But it is also a fact, as has been pointed out in this debate, that Sweden is not at the tables where decisions are taken. It is also a fact that the difference between partnership and membership is huge. In the event of war or conflict, NATO's joint resources are used to support the countries that are members of the Defence Alliance. Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty guarantees a Member State which is being attacked by other Member States. That insurance comes with a membership. For partnership countries, however appreciated they are, insurance does not apply. It is therefore time to leave assumptions and theories. It is time to build Sweden's security on treaty guarantees and on solidarity with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. Among the opponents of Swedish membership, it is sometimes pointed out that NATO's ultimate security doctrine is based on nuclear deterrence. But NATO as an organisation has no nuclear weapons. Three of the Member States — the United States, the United Kingdom and France — have nuclear weapons at their disposal. We are working closely with the United States and the United Kingdom today, not least in the field of defence. France is a member of the EU and is close to Sweden, not least through the solidarity clause that is part of the Treaty of Lisbon. Article 42 of the Treaty states that if a Member State were to be subjected to an armed attack on its territory, the other Member States would be obliged to provide assistance to that Member State. ..................................................... We can call Sweden non-aligned, but we no longer have the option to stand completely aside if a military conflict should hit any other EU country. This declaration of solidarity is important. The EU's enhanced defence cooperation is important, but the European Union is not a defence alliance. For this reason, 22 EU Member States have chosen to cooperate militarily within NATO. Sweden should do the same. Madam President, I would like Promoting disarmament and détente between countries must be a central part of Swedish security policy. For over 50 years, Sweden has been active in the NPT, the international non-proliferation agreement, which includes all recognized nuclear nations: the United States, Russia, China, the United Kingdom and France. However, these countries will not sign the current nuclear ban convention. The reason is that countries such as North Korea, Iran and Russia do not attach any importance whatsoever to an international nuclear ban. Thus, unilateral resolution in the Western world risks increasing instability and allowing authoritarian regimes and despots to further advance their positions. This is one reason why Sweden should not sign the Nuclear Ban Convention. Another reason is that cooperation with the United States would be made more difficult as well as cooperation within the Partnership for Peace. The door to a future Swedish NATO membership would be closed. For this reason, for example, Finland chose to say no to the ban on nuclear weapons, as did the Swedish Armed Forces. According to ÖB Micael Bydén, Sweden should not accede to the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons – it does not benefit Sweden's interests. The Government's investigator on the matter, Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin, concludes that, Sweden should neither accede nor sign the Convention in its current form. Much is at stake in this matter. The government's problem of agreement has led to a two-year process that has created uncertainty about Sweden's security policy orientation. This uncertainty must be dispelled. It is high time for responsibility and for clear information: No to the UN's nuclear ban! Yes, to defend the International Non-Proliferation Treaty! Yes to begin the process towards a Swedish NATO membership!
i-7a6a21907c36d148-829	Madam President, I would like I asked for a reply from Lars Adaktusson because I wanted to correct a mistake in what he said in his speech. This concerns Finland's view of the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. Finland has a new government. It hasn't been in place very long. Maybe it's in ten days. As part of the government declaration and the agreement signed between the parties, a transfer has been made to the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. This means that today it is about the same situation in Finland as we have in Sweden. They are at a stage where they are considering whether to sign the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. This is, of course, a political shift from a bourgeois government led by the Center to a Social Democratic government in which the Center is present. This government also includes the Left Alliance, the Swedish People's Party and the Greens. This means that a dialogue on the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention should be held between Finnish and Swedish. I do not share the analysis made by Lars Adaktusson when he says that the reason why we should not sign is that we need to, I see it as, the nuclear weapons of the United States, the United Kingdom and France in order to be able to face the nuclear weapons of other authoritarian regimes. Of course, I agree that authoritarian regimes should not have nuclear weapons. We will definitely work against this, which Lars Adaktusson and I agree on. But I do not agree that you need as large arsenals as you have today or that you need to upgrade and renew them, as we see in the United States. If you want to follow what the NPT is about, you should actually disarm your nuclear weapons. I understand the journey is long before we arrive at zero nuclear weapons all over the world. But the great nuclear nations – as we call the P5 – must move in a direction so that they disarm their nuclear weapons, as they have promised.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-833	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has apparently read the new Finnish Government's declaration. That's very good. But I would urge Håkan Svenneling to also read more carefully the referrals that have come in connection with the investigation that has been carried out. Read what the heavy agencies, such as the Swedish Armed Forces, say! Sweden should not accede to the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, has the country's ÖB Micael Bydén said. Listen to what the government investigators are saying! There is a clear message. It is not I or my party who are saying this, but it is the Swedish Armed Forces. It is the expertise that claims this. As I said, there is a lot at stake on this issue. That is why I once again regret the fact that the Swedish Government is fumbling and unable to get its act together. I believe that the position of the Left Party on this issue does not make it easier for the government to make a decision. You two are very close. So do not ignore the referee or what the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Armed Forces say! It's worth listening to and taking in.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-836	Madam President, I would like I hope, of course, that the government will consider all the referrals carefully in the preparation that the Government Office is now making to decide what it thinks. The Armed Forces have written one of them. I'm not gonna tell you who's heavy or who's light. It should be remembered, in the light of history, that when Sweden was to accede to the Convention against landmines, the Swedish Armed Forces wrote that they did not think that Sweden should sign. Reference was made to the fact that we might need land mines in Norrland to stop the Russian. Today, this seems to be an absurd argument, although, for example, the True Finns have an idea of minimizing the entire Finnish border with Russia in order to stop the Russian. The idea that mines would stop war in Sweden or the world at large is absurd. I believe that the debate we have today in the light of his ore, in 20, 30 or 40 years' time, may seem as absurd. I am pleased when Lars Adaktusson says that the Left Party does not facilitate the government's decision. That's what we're talking about. It shouldn't be easy for the government to decide. We think that we should decide to sign the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention, and we want the Parliament to ratify it. Today, as I am well aware, there is no majority in Parliament for this. This is due, among other things, to Lars Adaktusson's party, the Christian Democrats. But it is through an ongoing struggle that political work is being brought forward. We have seen Hans Wallmark's diligent efforts to join NATO. Just as hard is my work to ensure that we in Sweden sign and ratify the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-840	Madam President, I would like Of course, I respect that work, Håkan Svenneling. The fact that we can stand here and debate for the country entirely vital issues is an important part of democracy. In the same way that Håkan Svenneling will continue his work in the direction that his party stands for, I will continue my work in the direction that the Christian Democrats stand for.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-841	Madam President, I would like We now have to discuss, debate and express our positions on Swedish security policy. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has a report dealing with a number of different motions in this area. Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the very rigorous reasoning put forward by Mr Wallmark here with regard to the debacle in the Committee on Defence. I will not touch it any more in my speech. I haven't been in the Defense Committee either. But I think the descriptions are correct. Madam President, I would like Liberals are not in favour of signing the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. We believe that it would not benefit our interests and our defence capabilities. This would make Sweden's cooperation with the United States, France and the United Kingdom more difficult. We live in a very troubled time. It has probably always been worried, but it is very worried right now, with a series of very extensive wars going on, also quite close to us, for example in Eastern Europe, in Ukraine. We look like terrorism is spreading. We have very large flows of refugees and enormous humanitarian challenges facing the world. There are decaying states in several places. The list can be made even longer than that. We also see the weakening of democracy in a number of parts of the world. Gaps, populists and authoritarian leaders win success on several continents. For our part in Sweden, the security and military dynamics of our neighbourhood are, of course, central to our security, our freedom and our peace. We in the Liberals are very concerned about Russia's actions. The Swedish Defence Research Institute describes how Russia has been mobilizing its military capabilities over the last ten years. Russian combat forces show an increasingly aggressive military practice pattern, both on and across the Baltic Sea and globally. Beyond all reasonable doubt, we have experienced an estimated submarriage. Sweden, like our Nordic neighbours, has been subjected to repeated violations in the air and at sea. Russia continues to carry arms and human resources across the border to Ukraine and consolidates through military installations its position in the Georgian breakaway republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Russia refuses to distance itself from and in practice supports the separatists in Eastern Ukraine and in the Georgian breakaway republics. In recent years, Russia has conducted the military exercises Zapad-2017 and Vostok-2018, which have mobilized hundreds of thousands of men. The purpose of the exercises has been, among other things, to practice attacks against Sweden. The country has a nuclear rhetoric that other nuclear powers do not have. It is often suggested that nuclear weapons may be used and that other countries may become targets. The Russian fighter aircraft shows aggressive behaviour and, according to our armed forces, is also getting closer to our own units, especially the Swedish signal reconnaissance aircraft. The Swedish Security Service has identified Russia as the biggest intelligence threat to Sweden. Both the Russian Foreign Minister and the Russian Embassy in Stockholm have threatened with measures in the Swedish media if Sweden becomes a member of NATO. In the past, Sweden has been accused of being responsible for the conflict in Ukraine, and our defence force is being mocked in the Russian media. At the same time, the occupation of the Crimean Peninsula continues. There's a low-intensity war going on in Ukraine. Over half a million Ukrainian children have been physically or mentally injured, says UN agency UNICEF. As a result of the conflict, 10 000 people have been killed and 1 million people are now expected to live as internally displaced persons. In 2018, Russia also blocked Ukrainian merchant ships, and an escalation of violence and escalating conflicts is difficult to exclude. The action in Ukraine and Georgia also shows that the Russian view of geopolitics, state sovereignty and international diplomacy differs significantly from our view in Sweden. The Russian invasion of the neighbouring countries has actually disrupted the entire European security regime. They have simply moved borders by force. Madam President, I would like Liberals have a reservation in this report. I'm in favour of it. It is reservation 4 in paragraph 1. There we are basically marking exactly what I have just said. But this development naturally raises the question of Swedish membership of NATO. There is also a reservation, which I think the previous speaker called for. So do I. It is the reservation that the four bourgeois parties, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, have about Swedish NATO accession. That is a well-known position of our party. We in the Liberals took a stand for Swedish membership of NATO already in the late 1990s. For time to come, I will not touch on this further in this speech; anyone who wants to read more about this position refers to the reservation in the report.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-853	Madam President, I would like In this debate on Swedish security policy, it becomes clear that there is a large and broad consensus in Sweden and in the Swedish parliament on security policy. But there are also issues where we differ. It is clear that the NATO issue, which has perhaps been most affected in this debate, is an important dividing line in the Swedish debate on security policy and how it should be conducted. As a social democrat, I think it is important that Sweden has a security policy consisting of a mosaic of bilateral agreements, our EU membership, our work in Nordefco, even trilateral agreements, partnerships with NATO and a lot of other different collaborations that we have to choose from – if and when it would be necessary. To cancel Sweden under NATO's nuclear umbrella, on the other hand, is not something that I, as a Social Democrat, want to do. NATO is building its strategic planning on the possession of nuclear weapons by some Member States. This is something you should think a lot more about. Most often, the images of what NATO membership would mean for the Swedish part are rather glossy: we would end up in a group of countries and friends, and that would be rather carefree. Moreover, it would increase our security and security. I say it's not that simple. It is also the case that Sweden is geographically in a position where we have historically been squeezed between the Warsaw Pact and NATO. That is no longer the case today, but we have a Russia which is clearly aggressive in its actions and which we must keep an eye on. In this situation, changing the balance and structure of our area through a Swedish NATO membership would not, I believe, increase the security of Sweden or our region where we are. Madam President, I would like Another thing that has often come back in the debate here is the defence preparation and the final report that was recently presented. In the report, the entire preparation is agreed on the security policy analysis, how we view the threats around us and how we view the need for a future defence organisation. We also agree on what this organisation is supposed to cost. Yet four parties chose to drop off at a late stage, four days before the report was due and presented. Earlier in the debate, Hans Wallmark explained this something like this: the defence committee's report is so good that we chose not to sign the report. Hans Wallmark is a debater who is often equilibrist in rhetorical figures and other things, but here I think he almost struck an unusually difficult knot on himself. If it is the case that the Moderates are behind the Defence Committee's report – unclear how far behind – it is quite incomprehensible that they do not sign it. It is not possible to assert the economic arguments of the Moderates. The Defence Committee's report, which they claim to agree with, states in the chapter on financing that funding issues are something that must be resolved in the normal budgetary work that always happens year by year. Acting as the Moderates and other parties did becomes quite odd, and it has also affected the work when we were writing the report. It made the process a little strange when it came to how the Moderates and other parties could express their politics. After all, it was not possible to refer to what reservations and specific opinions they might have had in the Defence Committee's report. To question the ability of the Social Democrats to finance the future defence, I would say, is to underestimate and ignore the ability of the Social Democrats to meet the economic challenges for decades and to finance the expenditure that needs to be financed. If any party has shown that it can do this for decades, it is precisely the Social Democrats. How the Moderates will be able to combine large increases in funding for defence with major tax cuts, Madam President, I find it very difficult to see. When it comes to the question of Parliament hosting the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I have to say that I think it is good that we are that. Sweden should host more international conferences, more international sports tournaments and more international events – indeed for security and democratic reasons. Unfortunately, there is a trend in the world today where more and more of this type of international arrangement is being placed in dictatorships or dubious democracies, where the arrangements are being used for their own propaganda purposes. In this particular perspective, I am pleased that we will eventually be able to welcome the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to Stockholm. To be honest, I do not know for sure whether it is here in Parliament's house that we will be. I'm not sure we've come this far in planning. My experience from this type of spring meeting in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is that you can end up in a little different places in the host countries. Sometimes it is in a conference facility at a hotel in Istanbul and sometimes in a conference annex close to a parliament building, as in Bratislava a few weekends ago. I think it remains to be seen exactly where this will take place. But the fact that the Swedish Parliament is hosting the event is really nothing that I am ashamed of in the slightest way. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-867	Madam President, I would like About an hour ago, I asked the Social Democrats three questions. I do not think I have received a direct answer to them, so I will repeat them here each. Firstly, on our level is the political will of the Social Democrats? Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats say the Moderates are supposed to fund so much. That has been the argument in recent years. Every time we've proposed more money for the defense, and we've done that, it's been said, "Allowance bingo!" You have said this despite the fact that this has become agreements to which the Social Democrats have subsequently acceded. This was also said about the budget that Parliament approved in December, and it is precisely the levels and the economy that are the defence economy for 2019, 2020 and 2021 according to the so-called 73-point programme. The Social Democrats tend to dismiss the Moderates and then, in time, turn the Moderate economy into their own. As far as the defence preparation is concerned, the basis for us is the security policy analysis – it gets worse – what defence policy direction is needed and the economy. If the Social Democrats now acknowledge that 84 billion are needed, but then, in internal budgetary negotiations, they intend to give less, I just wonder, Madam President: what should be removed? Why don't you tell me what to take away? Secondly, the Social Democrats argue that we, who are in favour of Swedish NATO membership, are a bit glossy. In what way would our complacency differ from the Social Democratic approach to security policy in the Netherlands, Spain, Germany, Norway or Denmark? In what way would we be more nuclearly hugging than the Social Democrats in these particular countries? Thirdly, the debate on the so-called nuclear ban has been going on for a long time. When does the government intend to deliver its answer to the question of whether you are in favour or against?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-873	Madam President, I would like I very well understood Hans Wallmark's three questions in his main speech, and I had good hope that he would return with them in a change of line. Hans Wallmark usually has an excellent explanation of the difference of opinion between Social Democrats and Moderates, where he very quickly, effectively and aptly paints our views on NATO in this way: The Moderates want to cooperate as closely as possible with NATO in order to enable Sweden to join NATO. The Social Democrats want to cooperate as closely as possible with NATO to prevent Sweden from joining NATO. That is how Hans Wallmark very aptly puts it, and I agree with this description. With regard to the Defence Committee's report and the budgetary issues, however, we must interpret it as being supported by the Moderates because they are behind the report, albeit unclear how far behind it. The financial section states precisely that funding must be dealt with in the usual budgetary processes. What exactly is the defection from the Defense Committee about? Is it possible that we got a clue one night when we looked at Report and listened to Gunnar Strömmer, who had been caught on an election activity in Gothenburg? He said to Report: Now we are in an opposition role with, for example, the energy agreement and mistrust of Strandhäll. If we pursue opposition politics, confidence in the Moderates will grow. For example, he said. Should he have added the defection from the Defense Committee to these examples of how the Moderates run opposition politics?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-877	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is not fun to meet with your own correct arguments, which Kenneth G Forslund renders quite correctly. I fully agree with this description of the differences between the Moderates and the Social Democrats, for I have said so myself. However, I would like to emphasise that I do not share the view that there would be a glare among us parties in the Swedish Parliament arguing for a Swedish NATO membership. I would say that we take the same view as normal Social Democrats in a number of countries that I listed – non-nuclear countries such as Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, Norway and Denmark. The second is that no matter how many times the Moderates or the general public ask questions to the Social Democrats about the economic level of Sweden's defence, the party chooses to duck or avoid the question. We are very clear: if you make a security policy analysis that says that there will be a deterioration in the situation and that an armed conflict in our neighbourhood cannot be ruled out, if you say that it is this defence policy that needs to be done and that it will require young people to be 84 billion or at least 1.5% of GDP, then you will be guilty of the answer if you do not want to add these resources. What is it you should remove? Why don't you tell me? Madam President, I would like The most illustrating example of this was when the government's finance minister in a newspaper article some time ago reasoned that this understands any ten-year-old: You have to choose, cinema or candy. In what way is Sweden's safety to choose between cinema and candy? In what way are the levels we Moderates propose parts of an appropriation bingo?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-881	Madam President, I would like First of all, we can see that there are many things to be financed in a state budget in the coming years. As recently as today, the Minister of Finance has pointed out that the needs of Swedish welfare for the next six seven years are at the level of 90 billion. It should therefore be added to the increases that we in the Defence Committee point out are needed to fund the defence organisation that we nevertheless propose in some kind of consensus in the Defence Committee. Of course, this is a task for which you should have great respect. It is also clear that this is a task that is somewhat more serious for parties that sit in a government than for parties that are in opposition at any rate at the moment. I feel a great humility about it. My ambition is for us to do both. We will manage both well-being and a secure Swedish defence. Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark also asked a question in his first reply, to which I have not yet had time to answer. That's when the government will answer about the nuclear ban. As Hans Wallmark and everyone here knows, the issue of a nuclear ban has been investigated by an investigator. The investigation has been for referrals, and the referrals are currently being processed in the Government Office. If you look at what the investigator points out as a problem with the entry into force of this nuclear ban, you can see that it is basically all the things that Sweden pointed to in its explanation of vote as a question mark when the resolution was adopted. These are serious issues the government is working on. There will be answers; unfortunately, I cannot answer exactly when.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-885	Madam President, I would like Neither the Swedish people, the Left Party nor the Social Democrats believe that Sweden should join NATO. Yet, in recent years, the Social Democrats have been driving towards NATO. You have signed a host country agreement, allowed northern forests to test-fire rockets and practiced together with NATO. These actions not only adversely affect our military freedom of alliance and the environment, but also go against the will of the people not to join NATO. Now you have taken another step by allowing the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to come here to the Swedish Parliament to meet, on the grounds that it will increase NATO's popular anchoring and profile the Swedish defence industry – at a cost of SEK 5.8 million for Hans Wallmark's campaign to join NATO. Kenneth G. Forslund raised some questions as if this were not to happen in Parliament's Chamber. I will read from the documentation that the Riksdag Board has decided on: The document describes the conditions for organising the session in the Riksdag and an estimate of the additional costs that can currently be foreseen. In another place it says: Locally, the Riksdag can arrange a spring session provided that the Chamber can be used and is available from Thursday and the whole Monday. Parts of the public gallery need to be used for interpreting booths. Chambers and plenisals can be used for committee meetings. Using Templum and the club room as a secretariat has previously been tried with good results. In order to have access to the plenisal, Templum, clubroom and press room, the President's approval is required. If you read the foundation, it is clear that it is not a conference facility we are talking about, Kenneth G Forslund – this is where the conference will be held. This is the assignment that the Riksdag Board has given to the Director of Parliament. At some point the Social Democrats must decide and be clear about what they mean by Swedish NATO membership. Right now Kenneth G Forslund only appears as a light variant of Hans Wallmark. The question is: why should the NATO Parliamentary Assembly come here?
i-7a6a21907c36d148-893	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the host country agreement. It is an agreement that does not regulate what has to do with military activities, when Sweden and NATO practice or have other activities together. It regulates tax legislation. It regulates criminal liability for what possibly someone is guilty of in their free time during the exercise. In principle, it regulates everything except precisely what is involved in military activity. These are decisions that normally need to be taken in the face of every great exercise and which have taken a great deal of bureaucracy and time over the years. Those parts are now being managed through the host country agreement. Instead, one can concentrate on going through and carefully deciding on the ammunition, equipment and personnel brought into and out of the country during these exercises. I think the host country agreement is wise and rational. But do not make it something that has to do with some kind of stealth connection to NATO! As far as holding the conference with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly hosted by Parliament is concerned, as I said earlier, I feel absolutely no shame about it. I believe that we should welcome more international conferences and events here to Parliament and to Sweden. These conferences – I usually participate in them – are important political and an important news exchange, one can almost say, to form an idea of what is happening in NATO but also what is happening in the Member States. They definitely have a value for those who can participate in them. Sweden is a partner country. We are observers and can participate in this.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-897	Madam President, I would like It is to be welcomed that Kenneth G. Forslund is arguing for why he thinks it is good with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. On the other hand, it is sad to see this gliding of the Social Democracy towards a rapprochement with NATO. This will be a platform for a Hans Wallmark campaign to join NATO. It will be used as much as possible. I find it difficult to see how the bourgeois leadership sides will conclude that they should not join NATO when the parliamentary assembly is held here in Sweden. It will be their triumph those days, I think. Another interesting issue raised by Kenneth G. Forslund is that of weapons brought in during NATO exercises. One of the major shortcomings of the host country agreement was precisely that NATO and, above all, the nuclear countries did not give a guarantee that nuclear weapons were not introduced onto Swedish soil. The closest we have come to some kind of guarantee is some kind of verbal promise from the current Minister for Defence that he believes there is no risk of that happening. It is some kind of verbal promise that he perceives as having been made. However, the thing about agreements like this is that security policy is something for us for a long time. That is why both Mr Kenneth and I are defending the freedom of alliance and do not believe that we should join NATO. It has benefited Sweden for a long time. That should be the way it should be here. In fact, it should have been possible to print down that nuclear weapons should not enter Swedish soil. It would be a risk to Sweden as a state, but also a risk to the population if something were to happen. I definitely think that this could have been improved, even if we were in favour of the host country agreement. Finally, I find it deeply unfortunate that the Social Democracy has now allowed the NATO Parliamentary Assembly into Sweden's parliamentary fine room.
i-7a6a21907c36d148-901	Madam President, I would like Discussions, debates and seminars of the Parliamentary Assembly are important for their participants. They are important in order to increase the knowledge of all participants about the situation in different Member States. Ironically, it was a great asset for the Assembly to have the NATO Parliamentary Assembly meeting in Istanbul shortly after the Turkish coup attempt. Some of the participants came from parties with which I and Håkan Svenneling have a lot of contact and who had not been allowed to leave the country and participate in the conference if the conference had been held elsewhere that time. That was the harshness of the oppression in Turkey at the time. Having just the discussions and seeing how tensions are within NATO is quite rewarding for me, too, who are opposed to Swedish NATO membership. That it may happen here in the Chamber, I have no problem whatsoever. I'm not so sure it's booked yet, but someone in our administration might have got ahead of it. If Hans Wallmark is running the campaign on Swedish NATO membership in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I have to say that he is wasting his time to some extent because it is not there that the opposition to Swedish membership is there. On the contrary – there it is repeatedly expressed that it would be happy to welcome us as members. As a social democrat, I usually thank you for the generous offer but explain why I want to abstain from it. As regards the inclusion of nuclear weapons, which are not excluded from the host country agreement, we have other legislation regulating this. If I remember correctly, the team room is 1984:30.
