i-b71e58f5459a988f-15	Mrs. Old President! Ludvig Aspling has asked the EU Minister if he supports the idea of giving out a secret report from 2014 and what he is prepared to do in order for this to happen. Furthermore, Mr Aspling has asked the Minister's view of ordering an updated report during the next legislative period and whether he supports the idea of reducing subsidies to countries that expose the Union budget to fraud or fail to address the problem in general. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Corruption is a serious threat to democratic law and to free and well-functioning societies. Sweden is one of the countries with the least corruption in the world, and that is how it should remain. Working in all possible ways to prevent and combat corruption, both in Sweden and internationally, is a priority for the government. Another important issue for the government is the transparency of the EU institutions. The Transparency Regulation was created on Swedish initiative during our EU Presidency in 2001. The government continues to work towards greater openness in the EU and is pushing for citizens to have the greatest possible transparency in the EU's work. In 2014, the European Commission published a report on corruption in the EU. The report is based on data from 2011 to 2013. Among other things, it was shown that many countries then had major problems with corruption. The report is public and can be obtained, inter alia, from the Commission's website. A follow-up report was planned. At the beginning of 2017, the Commission announced its intention to use its resources to analyse corruption in the Member States in the context of work on the EU's economic governance framework and to link the analyses to the country-specific recommendations and targeted concrete actions. Currently, the Commission is working on a compilation of Member States' statistics on corruption offences for the years 2014 to 2016. Sweden has provided the requested information. According to the Commission, the report will be published in autumn 2019. Sweden has had no objection to the Commission's approach to this work. Sweden has actively participated in the valuable programme for the exchange of experience in the field of corruption set up by the Commission in the context of the 2014 report and in the network of contact points in this field which the Commission has also established. In addition, the EU has recently become an observer to the Council of Europe's anti-corruption body, Greco, of which all EU Member States are members. Greco carefully evaluates how Member States live up to the Council of Europe's anti-corruption conventions. As an observer to Greco, the EU has access to all the information provided by Greco and can keep up-to-date on how Member States are developing their work in order to comply with the recommendations they receive after each evaluation. It is an important piece of work in the fight against corruption, and Sweden was therefore in favour of the EU's participation in Grecos's work in the negotiations. The answer to the third question is yes. Jag supports the idea of making EU aid conditional so that countries which do not comply with the rule of law cannot receive aid in the same way as they do today. At the same time as presenting the Commission's proposal for the long-term budget of the European Union, the Commission also put forward a proposal to make EU aid conditional on compliance with the principles of the rule of law. The proposal defines the principles of the rule of law. Systematic fraud that the Member State fails to deal with could be a threat to sound financial management, and thus several measures in the regulation could be brought up to date, such as non-payment of aid. Whatever developments in the rule of law, the government will continue to be clear that the EU's fundamental values are not negotiable and that all Member States must honour their commitments under the EU, Council of Europe and UN acquis.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-25	Mrs. Old President! One of the objectives of the European Union is precisely to combat corruption, both within its own administration and within the Member States in general. We think this should be reflected in Article 2 of the Treaty on the values of the Union. Moreover, Article 83(1) defines corruption as a so-called euro crime, which allows the Union to set minimum penalties and descriptions of offences. In 2010, the Council asked the Commission to come back with a comprehensive anti-corruption policy, which has still not happened. Instead, in 2014, the Commission published a special report to examine how serious the problem is and what Member States are doing to deal with it. The report states that corruption is cross-border and affects all Member States, albeit to varying degrees. Overall, 76% of Europeans say that corruption is widespread in their own country, 99% in Greece, 97% in Italy and 95% in three other countries. Three quarters of Europeans state that bribes and contacts are the best way to access public services. Public procurement is the worst hit overall, due to lack of control mechanisms, freedom of information, transparency in lobbying and protection of whistleblowers. According to the report, the cost of corruption and abuse of power in the EU amounts to SEK 1,200 billion per year, which is likely to be significantly lower. According to a summary by the Greens and the EFA Group in the European Parliament, the total cost instead amounts to almost unimaginable SEK 9 000 billion a year – a sum so large that it can hardly be understood. The report was intended to be updated every two years to become a platform for enhanced cooperation and action at Union level. But just before the second edition was to be published, the Commission chose to scrap the project and to keep the material collected secret. It was reportedly an almost completed report that was chosen to be classified, which led to severe criticism and that, among other things, Transparency International chose to sue the Commission under the EU's Freedom of Information Regulation. Nor is there any indication that the situation has improved since then. The Council of Europe's so-called Greco report, as mentioned by the Council of Ministers in 2017, states that new legislative initiatives in Member States risk blurring previously important reforms and, in some cases, also breaching the Council's anti-corruption standards. Transparency International's 2018 annual report also shows that the average score for Member States has been the same since the start of measurement in 2012. Transparency's CEO, Carl Dolan, is also very sceptical about how the Commission deals with the issue – during a meeting with Union representatives in 2018, he commented on it like this: ..................................................... I would therefore like to ask Morgan Johansson a very simple and concrete question. Does he think that the social-liberal alliance that governs the EU is doing a good job in meeting the objectives of combating corruption?
i-b71e58f5459a988f-33	Mrs. Old President! Firstly, it is good to hear that the SD wants to engage in the EU's anti-corruption work, but at the same time it is genetic. The Swedish Democrats want Sweden to leave the EU, and what would anti-corruption work in Europe look like if the EU were dissolved? After all, the job that is now being done to put pressure on EU countries that fail to comply with these principles of the rule of law would be completely lost. That doesn't make any sense. Secondly, there is no secret report. There is a report from 2014 that can be requested, and it is on the European Commission's website. There is no classified report from 2017, mentioned in the interpellation. There is also no secret process – in practice, all the evidence submitted by individual countries to this work can be requested from the European Commission. Transparency International has not sued the European Commission, as Ludvig Aspling claims. Cases have been requested, but they have not gone to any court and have not sued the European Commission. Actually, that's not true. Nor is there any attempt, I would say, to look the other way. Rather the opposite is true: the Commission, with Sweden's support, is working to step up the fight against corruption in the individual EU countries. As I mentioned in my interpellation response, crime statistics from recent years are now being collected in the individual Member States and a new report on this will be produced in the autumn. It refers to the period 2014-2016. In 2017, a Eurobarometer was commissioned asking the citizens of Europe about their experiences of corruption and their attitudes to corruption. It happened as I said in 2017, and that report is also public. There has also been a special report on corruption in business in recent years. In addition, as has been said, we are an observer in the Council of Europe's anti-corruption body, Greco, and so we have access to all the qualified information that is there so that we can move forward with those Member States that do not meet the standards we believe should apply. The European Commission has also put pressure on individual Member States to simply deliver better, and that pressure has increased. This is done through the recommendations to the Member States that are adopted. In 2017, four countries were identified as having to improve on this. In 2018, five countries were identified as having to be better at this. In 2019, the European Commission has identified seven countries with specific recommendations, which are Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Hungary, Italy, Malta and Slovakia. These countries therefore have specific recommendations for anti-corruption work. In addition, both Bulgaria and Romania are subject to special surveillance as a result of the conditions applying to them when they joined the EU. I therefore claim the opposite of what Ludvig Aspling says in this discussion: I argue that the Commission has actually stepped up the fight against corruption – and also that all EU countries must be treated equally in this regard. One cannot have any kind of double standards or different yardsticks here, but everyone must be treated equally. In this work, the European Commission obviously has Sweden's support.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-39	Mrs. Old President! The reason why we are involved in this problem is, of course, that Sweden pays a huge amount of money to the EU budget. The EU budget is heavily affected by corruption, as it invests heavily in many of the countries most affected by this. Morgan Johansson claims that we want to leave the EU. I do not know if Morgan Johansson has been present this year, but we have gone through an election campaign to the European Parliament where the fact that my party changed its position on this issue was one of the biggest news. Maybe Morgan Johansson missed that. I don't know. If so, one of his officials may be able to inform him. As far as the Commission is concerned, it has not disclosed the material. Isn't that right? And since the Commission has not disclosed the material, the Commission must consider it secret. So that is what I am referring to. The fact that there is no secret report is, so to speak, difficult to prove until you see it, but the fact is that a number of organizations have tried to get the material out but have failed. That is what I am referring to, and I think it is bad. I would also like to highlight a statement by the Commission's spokesperson which I think sums up the Union's position quite well. The statement was made in connection with the fact that they just chose not to disclose the report, and she said this: ..................................................... Here, for example, we can compare with the objective of forcing Member States to accept economic migrants, which has no support in the Treaties. There are no barriers to how much one is prepared to threaten, run over and criticise Member States that do not do what the Commission wants. However, as far as anti-corruption is concerned, which has a very strong and clear support in the Treaty, one suddenly does not even want to express any clear criticism or do much in practice. I find that very telling. It is true that, as Morgan Johansson mentions, the CDM mechanism exists for Romania and Bulgaria, for example. It is a good initiative; I will admit that. So it is not the case that nothing is done, and I have not said so either. However, I think that much more could be done. Above all, the 2014 report was very clear, concrete and clear, and it gave a great picture of how serious the problem is. Not updating it is a big mistake.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-45	Mrs. Old President! There will be further reports, as I have just mentioned. The next one to be expected is the one where crime statistics are collected from the different Member States. It will be published as early as this autumn, and there you will see what the problem is like in the various Member States. Then, of course, the process continues towards those countries where one has the greatest problems. Bulgaria and Romania are clearly such, and there we see a special order. We also see how this is gradually followed up, which is a good thing. With regard to the other countries – Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Hungary, Italy, Malta and Slovakia – the Member States that the Commission has put particular pressure on and said: you must actually deliver in this respect. There is no doubt whatsoever that there are problems in some of these countries, and to follow up what Transparency International has said, it is about the same countries that they also point out. Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Greece are the worst in terms of corruption. The countries that have deteriorated most are Poland, Malta and Hungary. So there is a pretty good picture, I would say, of the situation. With regard to those countries that are best at working against corruption, I think that we can stretch, because there is Denmark, Finland and Sweden. I think we can ask ourselves how it can be that Sweden is one of the countries in the top position. This is linked to the principle of public access, which has been established in Sweden for hundreds of years, but also to the protection of public information. This means that the detection risk for this type of problem is simply much greater in Sweden than in many other places. Of course, we cannot settle down with this, but we must continue to develop and maintain the order we have. For example, there has been a recent discussion about introducing the principle of public access to independent schools, and we must do so in order to ensure that these schools are in the same order as others. High detection risk means that you both have easier access to the briber and the briber, and that is the way to do it. One example of the inspiration that we can give from Sweden to other EU countries is the special public access directive, which now exists in the EU after a Swedish initiative. In fact, Transparency International and other organisations have also requested documents and obtained them. As I understand it, there is no ambition to try to hide that work; on the contrary, it is rather a matter of taking a step forward. So let us ensure that the EU can continue to work in this way and also that Sweden can continue to be in the lead in this work.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-52	Mrs. Old President! I would like to use the last line to ask a short and simple question. Morgan Johansson points out in the interpellation response that systematic fraud and corruption could be a breach of good financial management as expressed in Article 2. What is it that says that Morgan Johansson supports this view in the EU? The Article 2 procedures that have been initiated during the previous legislative period do not really point to corruption in essence, but to quite different things. I would be just as happy as the Government if those who are in charge of these processes make that interpretation too, but I am not quite sure that that is the case. I would, of course, hope that during the legislative period that will also have an adjustment to the EU budget according to that criterion, i.e. that those countries that do not meet the requirements for good financial management will receive less support. We pushed for that in the electoral movement, and that is something that we see as very appropriate. I would therefore like to hear the reason Morgan Johansson has for assuming that the Commission as a whole or the Council as a whole will share the view that a country such as Romania or Bulgaria will also be considered to be in breach of Article 2 if they do not address the problem of systematic fraud and corruption.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-55	Mrs. Old President! This is, of course, based on the proposal now made by the European Commission. The European Commission has now, among other things, put forward a proposal on the Swedish initiative that sets out criteria for the grants and assistance that can be obtained in the future. If you don't live up to those criteria, you risk losing your money. That is the third question in Ludvig Aspling's question, that is, whether aid and subsidies should be conditional. The proposal now before us defines what counts as the principles of the rule of law. This means, as we interpret it – and I think we have a great deal of support among the Member States – that systematic fraud, and that it should not be dealt with, should be a part of such a process. Let us hope that we will move forward in that process so that such a proposal can be put into place. From the Swedish side we will of course work with it. Then one can say that it is good to hear that, after a very long time, the Swedish Democrats have also understood the benefits of being part of the European Union. This means that we can work systematically against countries with which we are dealing and are part of an economic context with which we can ensure, via the EU, that there are better economic conditions and that this type of economic crime, which ultimately also affects us, can be combated.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-59	Mrs. Old President! Larry Söder has asked the Minister for Finance and Housing how he sees the problems with the current site leasehold system and whether he intends to return with changes that make the leasehold more attractive. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The current rules on the leasehold have been reviewed several times. As Larry Söder points out, there have been problems with the system. One such problem is that it can increase significantly as it only changes every ten years. Another problem that has been highlighted is that the municipalities calculate the debt in different ways. In 2012, the land lease and lease investigation submitted an interim report proposing changes to the rules. The investigation's proposals received criticism during the consultation. The main criticism is that the proposal does not provide sufficient protection against large increases in pay for site owners in areas with high land values and that the proposal may also lead to a reduction in income for some municipalities. Criticism makes it clear that the issue of land lease is complex. The Government is pursuing an active policy on housing construction and the housing market in Sweden. The government is also actively working to bring the issue of land leases forward. The Government Office has held meetings with interested parties on several occasions on the direction of further work. The problem picture and possible ways forward are currently being analysed, taking into account the criticism that has been put forward.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-63	Mrs. Old President! I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would like to point out that in studies nine out of ten young people say that they want to own their housing within a five-year period. At the same time, it has become increasingly difficult for the same group to ask for housing as a result of a series of credit restrictions. This is a consequence of the policy that is now under way, where it should be both braces and belt for people to borrow for their accommodation. Policies are now needed to meet people's needs for housing. People should have better opportunities to own their right of residence or move to a villa when they form a family, and this should be possible for both young and old. This is where I think Santa Claus comes in. The pitches date from 1907 and were then a solution for less well-off families to be able to build houses even if they could not afford to buy the plot on which the house would stand. The problem today is exactly the same. With high land prices, the property is usually very expensive to buy in growth areas. It is not only the less well-off who are completely referring to the rental market, but also more and more people who are earning quite well. To then review the leasehold as part of the solution to the problem should be reasonable. It is not an option for everyone but for some if we create a regulatory framework for plots that are predictable and transparent. Now there is the land leasehold where the landowner, which is usually the municipality, rents out the land to the household and in return receives a return rate on the value of the land. This interest rate is called interest rate and is based on a base which in practice is 75 % of the market value of the land. When the valuation value changes, there is also a change in the depreciation due to the landowner. As the Minister writes in his reply, there are some problems that have been highlighted. The payment basis shall be updated today only every ten years. With rapidly rising land prices, this has led to a sharp increase in the amount of pay-off, sometimes doubling from one year to another, which has created unpredictableity and major financial consequences for the landowner. In Stockholm it was reported that the yield increased by up to 100 per cent in the 2017 recalculation. A common household in Sollentuna, for example, could have increased costs from SEK 3,100 to SEK 6,300 per month with the municipality's recalculation. It goes without saying that people give up property rights when it is not possible to predict the development of costs. There are also problems when the rules allow for different ways of calculating the depreciation. Municipalities use different calculation models and can change these continuously, which reduces transparency and predictability for the site owner. This increases people's concern and, of course, one is reluctant to become a landowner if one is completely extradited to a party that decides. This situation would be unthinkable, for example, in the case of rental apartments where rent increases are actually negotiated. The problems of course hamper people's ability and willingness to ask for a site right and therefore a dwelling in their own small houses, while many families with children demand accommodation in small houses. We Christian Democrats see it as urgent that living in small houses is attractive and that more families have the opportunity to choose it over other forms of housing. As the Minister rightly pointed out in his reply, there is an investigation that could form the basis for a change. Many of the proposals would be useful even today. If the government has pinpointed the same problem as I do with the land leases and the government believes that land leases can be the solution for more people, I wonder: Can't the government come forward with a proposal? What's taking so long? The government cannot be satisfied with today's system. The minister said you're not.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-73	Mrs. Old President! We are well aware that there is a problem for people who want to own their homes when it comes to being able to do so. It may be said that the Christian Democrats' policy has contributed to the deterioration of the situation. When you pushed through the abolition of property tax, the effect was that house prices increased sharply, and that meant that the threshold for people to buy their houses was higher. It is an effect of the Christian Democrats' own policy. With regard to other housing policies, I can also note that the Christian Democrats are keenly opposed to all forms of investment stimulation in order to build cheap rentals that ordinary people can move into. You're against it, Larry Söder. And as soon as you have the opportunity to abolish this type of investment aid, you will. Last autumn you did so together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. The policy you pursue in the residential area means that it is becoming more difficult and expensive to build. It also pushes prices up in general, thus excluding many from the housing market. In the case of land leaseholds, this is largely a municipal issue because the municipalities have control over the calculation models used. At the same time, the number of plots has decreased over time. There's about 50,000 left on the small house side. This is a decrease of 17 per cent since 2012. There has been a long-standing desire for greater government control of this. The last time it was investigated was 2012. As I understand it, Larry Söder is in favour of what the investigation came up with in 2012. However, he does not seem to have taken note of the referral criticism that has been made, nor have he really seen the consequences of what the investigation proposed. The south points to the problems of large increases in pay due to the rise in land prices. But that was not solved in practice by that investigation. It did not propose a barrier rule. They investigated a barrier rule but did not suggest it. So that question was not resolved. On the other hand, it was mentioned that the land leases should be adjusted each year so that there would be a more protracted process. But this means that in the end you will still land on about the same land. It will only be for a longer period of time. But, as I said, it does not solve the basic problem, i.e. that the payoffs are rising. Larry Söder does not seem to have taken note of how the proposal would affect the municipalities either. For municipalities with a lot of land leases, changing the system would have a direct impact on the local economy. There have been calculations in the investigation. With this proposal, a municipality like Västerås would lose SEK 14 million straight up and down. This was the situation in 2012. There has been no analysis of what it would look like in 2019. But then it was 14 million kroner. Luleå would lose over SEK 5 million. Eskilstuna would lose almost SEK 5 million and so on. When you look at the effects on some of the major cities, Stockholm and Gothenburg, you can also see that the investigation expects that the municipalities with the new system could raise additional money. On Stockholm's behalf, it is about 25 million extra, and for Gothenburg it is about 27 million extra. Then you wonder where that money comes from. In that case, they would come from those who rent the land by way of a leasehold. Thus, it would lead to substantial increases in their land lease tax if the municipality did not provide a discount. There is an opportunity for municipalities to do so. Mrs. Old President! It is this kind of problem and criticism of referrals that has led neither the previous government, which the Christian Democrats put in, nor this government, in which I sit, have chosen to go forward with the proposal. The effects are simply not quite good. As long as we don't have a better system, we'll have to live with what we have, Madam President.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-83	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for the discussion. I do not, of course, agree with why we have this problem, i.e. that housing construction is declining in Sweden. I would argue that it is the crisis restrictions that have become too tight. Both braces and belt make it look like this. It is the government that is now in charge of it. The Minister claims that I am not in favour of investment in housing at all. Yes, I am. But I think that investments should be made in people. Instead, make sure to increase housing allowances for people so that they can rent the apartments we have, rather than so top the investment grant right in the pocket of the companies. It does not create new homes in the long run. Instead, it must be seen that municipalities have a responsibility to resolve the housing issue for their citizens. At the moment, many municipalities are turning away from it. But you do. If the leasehold is part of it, the rules that exist may be reviewed. We Christian Democrats have a number of proposals on how to change the system of leaseholds. One could change the payment system and introduce an ongoing interest rate of 2.75 per cent, according to the investigation's proposal – as the Minister said, many of the proposals in the 2012 investigation are good. It shall also apply throughout the country. Thus, the diversity between municipalities disappears and the system becomes more predictable for households. In my politics, I'm starting from people. It means that people should think it's predictable. It is people who should have the opportunity and the advice to do so. And it is the duty of municipalities to ensure that people have a roof over their heads. We also think that the payment base for small houses should be re-evaluated when the household chooses to move and thus renounces the leasehold. This makes it predictable throughout the period of residence, and the rapid increases in valuation that can occur with today's system are decreasing. The debt is also to be adjusted every year, as the Minister said, and written up with, for example, the consumer price index between the values. We also think that projects should be encouraged when it comes to land leaseholds for small houses. For this, you can have incentives to the municipalities, for example, pay for the va-costs that are a heavy burden for people who are going to build their house. Santa and va are big parts. These are some suggestions that I think the Minister has thought of in the past. I believe that the Minister can give a small view of the proposals put forward and whether they can be implemented. According to my view, there is a basis for being able to make decisions in Parliament today. All it takes is a bill. It is the Minister's responsibility to ensure that we have one. It is the Minister's responsibility to ensure that we have housing in the country that meets the needs that exist. We don't have that today. I put the interpellation to the Minister of Housing. To him I have repeatedly argued that we have a housing crisis in Sweden. This government has not understood that we have a housing crisis. But we do. We have to turn all the stones around. Santa Claus is one thing we can do something about. One can, of course, blame a government that sat 6 years ago, 8 years ago, 10 years ago, 20 years ago. But now it is this government that is responsible and can do something about it. I hope that the government will take this on board and look at the opportunities that exist. We Christian Democrats are happy to work this out together in the best possible way. However, if you say, as a minister, that we can live with the system we have, you have already decided not to put forward any new proposals.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-96	Mrs. Old President! We're still at a very high level of housing construction. During the last parliamentary term, we lifted housing construction sharply to levels that we had not seen since the 70s. Now there has been a slight decrease. But we're still at a very high level. It was something completely different when the Christian Democrats ruled. The first thing you did when you took office in 2006, Larry Söder, was to abolish investment subsidies, and housing construction just collapsed. This was to build up the debt that was then given, that is to say, inadequate housing for a long time. It was the same last fall. I don't have to go very far back. As soon as you got the opportunity, you pulled in the government money that we use to build just cheap rental apartments that ordinary people can move into. It is not the way that that money goes straight into the pockets of some property owners. We make it conditional: If you build cheaply so ordinary people can move in, get rents and reasonable terms, you get money, otherwise not. If we were to go through the housing allowance, we would not have any pressure at all on housing production costs. In that case, the State would subsequently cover the costs. The risk is then that you continue to build very expensive and that taxpayers will then have to pay it through high housing allowances. That's not very wise. Then we can really talk about filling the pockets of the real estate companies, because they will be able to build much more expensive and expect the state to replenish people's wallets accordingly. That's not a good idea. When Christian Democrats rule, housing construction decreases. When we rule, housing construction increases. As a matter of fact, that's the way it is. Larry Söder suggests an interest rate and says there's no need for any preparation for that. There can only be a bill. Now we have a duty of preparation in the form of government. This means that all the proposals submitted to this House must be examined, and the consequences must be investigated. That's not the consequence of Larry Söder's proposal. My question to Larry Söder is: What will be the impact on the municipalities with the idea that you have? Do you have an answer to that question? What are the effects on individual residents? We know that the 2012 investigation would be a very hard blow for municipalities such as Västerås, Luleå and Eskilstuna. As far as I know, KD has not spent any extra money on the municipalities to compensate them for this. Such an impact assessment has not been carried out, has it? I therefore have a question on Larry Söder's proposal. What are the consequences for the municipalities? We also know that with the 2012 proposal, site owners in Stockholm and Gothenburg would probably get a heavy blow as their offspring increase – unless the municipalities gave them a discount, but you can't be sure of that. What would KD's proposal mean for the individual residents? As far as I know, they have not analysed that either. So it is not that simple, Madam President-in-Office, that you can only put forward a proposal without it having been subject to an impact assessment. In fact, it has to be done. In the investigation that came in 2012, with which the bourgeois alliance government did not proceed, the disadvantages are so great that I am not prepared to go further with the proposal either. I'm sure there's other things you can do. We'll have to analyse that further. But that's not where we are today.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-107	Mrs. Old President! Anyone who has built a dwelling knows that it takes quite a long time to get a dwelling in place. I don't think it's unreasonable to think of four to five years. From thought to the fact that there is a dwelling in place, it takes four to five years. Consider what it looked like five years ago: Who made the decision to build homes? When did it start to fall? The increase that came during the last parliamentary term is not the merit of this government. It is due to the alliance government. In contrast, the reductions that occurred in 2018, despite the government's investment aid, resulted in a total reduction in the number of dwellings. Morgan Johansson can take note of this and look at the figures. In 2018, housing construction decreased compared to 2017, despite the existence of investment aid. This proves that investment aid does not provide more housing, but only other types of housing, such as rental housing, which Morgan Johansson thinks we should only build. I think, however, that there should be mixed housing and things that people actually want. Nine out of ten young people want their own accommodation. Then it is our duty to ensure that there is an opportunity for that. Morgan Johansson has made it quite clear that land leases are not something to spend time on, but the system we have we will have to live with. The Christian Democrats have a number of proposals that are feasible. I would be happy to have a coffee with Morgan Johansson as I can explain more what this means and how we could move forward and do this together. You can't just say to Sweden's wishing young people that they don't have the opportunity to buy their own home because the credit restrictions are so high that they have to wait. You don't intend to change the whole plot thing either. This is rather bitter news to young people who want their own home.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-113	Mrs. Old President! Again, Larry Söder: The fact that house prices were pushed up sharply during your period was an effect of your abolishing the property tax. Then the threshold was higher. You still have to understand that. If you lower the property tax, you push up the house prices. That is exactly what has happened. One can, of course, juggle by date, but the fact is that when you abolished investment aid in 2007, housing construction collapsed. As a matter of fact, that was the case. This was not because bad plans had been made earlier, but because there were suddenly a number of planned projects that could no longer be counted home. Instead, these projects were closed down. When we then reintroduced the support, housing construction increased, and it increased sharply to a level that we have not seen since the 1970s. Of course, I am not just looking to build rental apartments, but I want mixed construction. That's what it looks like. But the fact is that those who may be moving away from home to start a family and who have relatively low incomes do not have millions in the bank. They can't just buy themselves a house. It may be on a property lease or on a free basis; it doesn't matter. They are often referred instead to rental apartments, which is why I think it is a problem when the construction of rental apartments falls and so want to stimulate it. This is done in such a way as to ensure that those who build cheaply and can offer reasonable rents are supported by the State. Otherwise, they won't get it. But as soon as the Christian Democrats have the opportunity, they will abolish such a system. As far as the Santa Claus issue is concerned, I don't think it matters whether we drink coffee or not. After all, I asked Larry Söder a question about whether he had an impact assessment of this for the municipalities and for the residents. He didn't. He doesn't know what would happen if his proposal went through. As long as we do not have such an analysis, we cannot put forward a proposal such as this in Parliament.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-118	Mrs. Old President! Katja Nyberg has asked me if I and the government are willing to consider the possibility of hiring places abroad. Katja Nyberg has also asked what the government intends to do to avert the problems of overcrowding which already exist today and which are expected to increase significantly as early as next year. The increase we see of inmates in Sweden's detention centres is, among other things, an effect of the government's policy of more effective law enforcement. The government has tightened the penalties in several areas, which has led to more people being arrested and individuals who had previously joined with weapons in the city are now in custody. Further efforts in law enforcement can be expected to further increase the need for a place in the Prison Service. The government has a close dialogue with the Prison Service on the location situation and on the measures taken by the agency to deal with the situation here and now and in the longer term. In order to create the best conditions for the agency in the emerging housing situation, the government added SEK 335 million to this year's spring change budget. The addition concerned both funds to maintain security in detention centres and institutions due to the high level of occupancy and funds to cover increased costs of transport of detainees. The rapid and efficient transfer of detainees who need to be transported is an important part of the distribution of housing in Sweden's detention centres and prisons. Effective and safe penitentiary care, adapted to individual circumstances and needs, has taken a long time to build up, and has contributed to a reduction in relapses in crime over time. This development will continue, and it will continue on Swedish soil. Renting places abroad cannot replace the need for more places in Sweden, and it is not resource efficient. It is also not a solution that the Prison Service itself is asking for. My starting point is that the Correctional Service should have sufficient resources for its activities and that there is a good capacity to take care of those detained and sentenced.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-124	Mrs. Old President! What the Minister of Justice says is true, that is to say that the legislative changes that have been made have affected the client flow to the prisons. But it is also due to the fact that the opposition has been a driving force in this. However, the government still has a passivity and frightening slowness in the capacity of the Prison Service. Prison services today have an imminent problem with overcrowding in both prisons and prisons. It requires quick solutions. On 5 August this year, the average occupancy rate was as much as 98 per cent. When compared to an optimal 80 percent coating, most people probably understand that the situation is not sustainable. Due to the current lack of space, inmates are forced to live double and common spaces are used. At present, the prison services are unable to perform their duties satisfactorily. This increases pressure on both staff and inmates. This leads to increased wear and tear in existing institutions, which cannot be renovated at the required pace, as well as increased conflicts between inmates, which often leads to very violent situations. It takes six to ten years to build an institution. In addition, the time it takes before the first shovel is taken. Despite the urgent need for new institutions, there are currently no guaranteed plans to build new institutions. The proposed measures are to increase the capacity of existing institutions. But that will not be enough. Hall will be extended with about 200 seats within a period of five to seven years. Then there are a small amount of extended places in a few additional institutions, such as Tidaholm and Lake Sagsjön. The estimate made by the Correctional Service means that within five years there will be no 1 000 places. Compared to last year, there are 400 more prisoners in prison. The equation just doesn't add up. This will mean further suffering for individuals, who are at risk of meeting their perpetrators in the streets and squares because of the lack of places of detention. This will mean increased costs for society. It will also mean that new victims of crime will be harvested, as criminals, due to lack of space, cannot be adequately encapsulated. To solve the acute overcrowding, the quickest option is to rent places abroad. It is already proven by both Norway and Belgium, which rented places in the Netherlands, which fell well out. Of course, we need to work to get a well-functioning penitentiary system in Sweden. However, as the Minister of Justice already knows, we do not have a well-functioning penitentiary system today. We do not have the time to wait for the capacity to be sufficient. The government has simply not acted in time. That the main rule should be that we ourselves have the capacity in Swedish institutions and detention centres is understandable. But the fact that we are going to have no seats today and in the future and can be forced to postpone the necessary penalties is appalling. The government's slowness in giving the Prison Service the resources it needs to provide detention facilities means that we need to look at other alternatives. We need to find quick and constructive solutions. Unruly refusing to look at alternative solutions when reality looks as it does is anything but responsible.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-132	Mrs. Old President! You can understand the basic idea of the interpellation. We have gone forward with tougher penalties, increased resources for the police, better tools for the police and increased arrest possibilities. As a result of the new legislation, for example, we are now arresting five times as many people as we did a year ago for serious weapons offences. That's the background. This is basically a pretty good development. If the shootings and the blasts are to be brought down, organized crime must be stamped out in the areas where it is located. We do so in a number of ways: increased police presence, camera surveillance, increased arrest possibilities, increased opportunities for clandestine interception, border controls and much more. This has led to a rapid increase in coating. In the spring, we had over 100 percent occupancy in both security grade 1 and 2 institutions and in custody. Then it went down a little during the summer, but we follow it week by week. We double-check jail cells. We've put bunk beds in Kumla to make sure people are there. But basically, the development is that you see people who used to run around with guns in town now sitting in the cage. We have greatly increased the number of emergency stations. There have been nearly 400 more places in just two years. On the custody side it is Helsingborg, Kronobergshäktet and Gothenburg that we have expanded. We will continue to do this. Correctional services have been and are one of the most important issues in the budgetary negotiations that we are currently conducting. Unfortunately last autumn's M-KD budget, which the Swedish Democrats supported in voting for, meant far too little money for the Prison Service. For this year, the Correctional Service had requested SEK 395 million. You only got 85. The Swedish Democrats voted for that budget for this year. This meant that we ended up in a problem when we came back again in January. Almost the first thing we had to do was to make sure that more money was paid to the Prison Service than you had done, Katja Nyberg. We shot at over 300 million already this spring. There will be another chance when we go forward with the budget this autumn. But to say that we would have been late when Katja Nyberg himself sat in this Chamber and pushed far too little money for the Prison Service is actually not credible. You should have done your job last fall instead. Is it then an option to rent places? Norway did. I was approached a few years ago by the Norwegian Minister of Justice, who wanted to rent places in Sweden. I said no, because I knew we'd need our own seats. We can't rent them to Norway. Instead they went to Holland. They made a deal where they paid over 1 million a place. When you were about to transport the prisoners, you had to go back and forth with half-full airplanes. There was therefore a large cost also on the transport side. As a result, Norway eventually stopped doing this. They had it between 2016 and 2018. Now you don't have it. This is a very expensive and cumbersome method if you want to increase capacity. I think it is much better to ensure that the foreign citizens we currently have in our Swedish institutions and who are not related to Sweden serve their sentences in their home countries to a greater extent. These are, above all, countries such as Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Georgia, with which we have problems with international theft leagues. We have ongoing work with those countries to ensure that these people can serve their prison sentences in their home countries. Then we'll get places, Madam Old President, and we'll need them for our own villains, whom we capture in the streets and squares now.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-139	Mrs. Old President! The Minister of Justice says that we have these overcrowdings thanks to punitive measures and criminalisation of more crimes. That sounds good, and that is in some sense correct. But the relevant thing is actually the proportionate outcome and nothing else. Facts from Brå are that the number of reported offences against the Arms Act has increased by 30 per cent since 2013. On this basis, a reasonable assumption is that there are more people with guns in the city, not fewer. Nor do I think that all those who live daily in this reality, where shootings, assaults and explosions have been normalized, share the Minister's more positive approach to the subject. The fact that individuals who have previously been to town with weapons are now being detained does not really say anything about the overall picture. It does not weigh up the fact that the criminal mass has shown steady growth during Morgan Johansson's time as Minister. The fact that more people are now being prosecuted does not compensate for the increase in the scale of criminal elements for which Morgan Johansson, like previous alliance governments, is very much responsible. What I wonder is whether Morgan Johansson can see that it is not possible to take care of anyone if there is no place to detain him. If it's full, it's full. This is something the Prime Minister also admits. This requires urgent and resolute solutions. In the government's spring bill, the Correctional Service received increased funding, but that money would primarily go to transport assignments. The rest is not enough for today's needs. The fact that the Correctional Service lacked money for the transport mission is clear. The fact that this would help to the extent that the Minister seems to want to give the impression that only the most benevolent can agree. The average occupancy rate today is 98 percent. An administrative margin of at least 15 per cent is required in order to maintain the existing locations. Despite increased funding in the next budget, the problems will remain for many years to come. It cannot be overlooked that the construction of new institutions takes several years, and this also applies to the extension of places in existing institutions. It is therefore with this that it is for the government with many other things: too little is happening, and what is happening is too late.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-143	Mrs. Old President! One objection to Katja Nyberg's reasoning is of course: Why should we pay dearly when we can get it for free? Instead, as I said at the end of my previous speech, we focus on the fact that foreign citizens who are in Swedish prisons and who are not associated with Sweden will serve their sentences in their home countries to a greater extent. We are pushing this, above all, towards Romania, Lithuania, Georgia and Poland – countries with which we have a lot of problems in terms of international theft leagues. It is not as the Swedish Democrats sometimes say, that it is the large refugee groups that are sitting in Swedish prisons, but it is in many of these countries' citizens that we are talking about. If they serve their sentences more and more in their home countries, we earn about 1 million per place per year. Then we will also have increased opportunities to cope with the capacity. At the same time, of course, we need to expand capacity, as has been done in recent years. We've created almost 400 seats in just two years. We've also expanded on custody. I mentioned Helsingborg, Gothenburg and Kronoberg custody. We will, of course, continue to make those extensions. But it requires, Madam President, that there be money in the state budget. Here, the Swedish Democrats act just the opposite. Katja Nyberg himself sat in this Chamber and pushed through the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget movement last autumn. The Correctional Service had requested SEK 395 million, Madam Old President. The Moderates, the KD and the Swedish Democrats gave them 85 million – much less than they would have done. When Katja Nyberg points to the government and says that we are late and do not deliver, I think she should also look herself in the mirror and ask: Why did we do this? The great effort in that budget was not, by the way, the justice system; it was 20 billion in tax cuts. It's more than twice as much as the entire prison service costs in a year. That's what happens when the right is in control. There is a lot of talk about the judiciary and there is a lot of talk in general, but in the end it is always about tax cuts. This means that it will be even more difficult for us to develop the resources needed for the entire judiciary to survive. Katja Nyberg cannot run away from her own responsibility for having pushed through last year the budget that gave far too little money to the prison services. As I said, we are now in a situation where we are negotiating the budget, and this is an important issue in those negotiations. In a few weeks we will see how we land for the next year but also for this year. I can also say that although the situation in Sweden is now strained, it was much more strained in Norway when this step was taken. They had a soning queue in two years. So you had to wait up to two years to serve your sentence, which is bizarre. First you have to wait to be sentenced, and then you have to stand in line to serve your sentence — strange. In Sweden we do not have a soning queue. Here we have the order that those who are in custody begin to serve their sentence almost directly, while those who are not in custody will appear mainly within 50 days. So we do not have the same situation in Sweden today as we had in Norway at the time. It was a completely different situation. Once again, Madam President, the solution to this is to continue to expand the prison system. We will make sure to develop the necessary resources. We will also ensure that foreign offenders who are not associated with Sweden serve the sentences in their home countries. If, then, for a period of time, it would mean that you sometimes have to continue dividing cells, we simply have to take it.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-152	Mrs. Old President! The Minister of Justice is talking about last year's budget, but this is something that has been going on for years. In fact, it is the government's budget that has prevailed. That is why I think it is wrong to say that it is last year's budget that has affected the situation we have today. It certainly is not. This is something that has been long-term. You have to look at it for a long time. I welcome the government's proposal that foreign citizens should serve sentences in their home countries. What might be asked is how we are going to make it work in practice, why it is not done today and when it could become a reality. We need to act quickly, because it is an imminent problem. I cannot see any light in the form of a decline in crime in the coming years, rather the opposite. The investigation that is now being referred is a small step in the right direction, but I cannot see that this will make the problems much easier. The problem often lies in the fact that the countries to which these perpetrators are nationals do not accept them or that they are punishing in ways contrary to international conventions. The easiest way to heal this is to change the rules of expulsion. Take, for example, links to Swedish society. Is it really relevant when a foreign citizen commits rape or murder to consider the person's connection to Sweden? Well, then, I think you've forfeited that right. What we need to do is to agree with other countries that they should receive their criminal citizens and that they must be treated in accordance with international law. If international law is not respected, it can be verified by withdrawing contributions to these states or by creating other incentives for compliance with international conventions.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-157	Mrs. Old President! Katja Nyberg says that this has been going on for several years. It's a truth with modification. This has happened mainly in the last year. In a single year, the occupancy rate increased by nearly 10 percentage points. It was the result of many things. On the other hand, I think it was the result of an increase in the efficiency of the police. The resources of the police have begun to be felt. Then there are the legislative changes we have made, especially the increased arrest possibilities for those suspected of serious weapons offences. They made us fill up the prisons quite quickly at first, and in the next step we began filling up the prisons. But before that, when I took office five years ago, we had quite a few empty places in the penitentiary. In addition, there was a surplus in the penitentiary. So this is something that has happened in practice over the last year. That is why it was so unfortunate that at the very time when the prison services needed more money, that is to say for this year, there was an M-KD-motion that gave completely insufficient resources and that the Swedish Democrats also made sure to vote through. One cannot vote through such a motion in one breath and in the next breath stand here accusing the government of being slow. You lose credibility, Madam President. Transfers to other countries are already taking place today. We have speeded up; more are now being transferred to other countries. The investigation mentioned by Katja Nyberg is about setting up a special urgency requirement so that it will be quicker to do so, but then it is about ensuring that these countries receive and also have prisons at a level that can be rejected. Once again, it is countries such as Romania, Poland, Lithuania and Georgia that we are focusing above all on. That is where we have the major problem of international theft leagues, and that is the kind of client we are dealing with.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-161	Mrs. Old President! Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me whether I believe that increased VAT by 25% for only private operators is to ensure the need to have a variety of actors and good conditions for individually driven activities within our welfare, and whether I believe that there should be equal conditions in the welfare sector and what is being done to prevent distortions of competition. The Government works in accordance with the January Agreement, the Political Agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, to ensure that all actors in the welfare sector have equal conditions regardless of their mode of operation. In a judgment of June 2018, the Supreme Administrative Court has interpreted the VAT Act's rules on exemption for healthcare in the light of EU law. As a result of the judgment, the Swedish Tax Agency published in October 2018 a position on tax liability in the hiring of personnel in the health care sector and decided to wait to apply the position to time after 1 July 2019. The VAT rules on health care do not differ between public and private health care providers. The change increases the cost of VAT in cases where hired personnel are employed in the business. There is a special compensation system in which municipalities and county councils are compensated for VAT costs in exempt activities, such as health care. The Landstingen can seek compensation for actual VAT costs in its own activities and for a flat-rate reimbursement of VAT costs relating to private activities. The purpose of the system is that the cost of VAT should not affect whether the county council chooses to carry out healthcare under its own direction or to procure the business from private operators. A government investigation was tasked, among other things, to examine the possibility of replacing even private operators with actual costs. The assessment was that such a solution whereby actual costs are reimbursed directly to private companies could create competition neutrality with regard to VAT but, among other things, that it would not be compatible with EU law (SOU 2015:93 Review of compensation to municipalities and county councils for so-called State aid). hidden VAT). On 19 June 2019, the Swedish Parliament decided on an announcement that the Government should make an impact assessment of the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation that consultancy solutions in healthcare are subject to VAT and, if necessary, come back with a proposal that neutralizes the consequences for healthcare providers and patients as soon as possible( rskr. 2018/ 19:299). The case is being prepared in the Government Office.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-166	Mrs. Old President! I hope that Mrs. Old President one has had a good summer and that the Council of State has had it too. I thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation, which I wrote earlier this summer. Now 1 July has already passed, and the Swedish Tax Agency has, as promised, introduced VAT on health services in an otherwise VAT-free business. SKL and the healthcare companies are two major players who have been clear that this so-called healthcare VAT will have terrible consequences for an already heavily burdened health and social care sector. The so-called January Agreement, signed by the Government together with the Center Party and the Liberals, clearly states in paragraphs 60 to 63 that health care should be operated under equal conditions and that there should be competition neutrality. The Government itself says in its reply that all actors in the welfare sector must have equal conditions regardless of their operating form. It doesn't really look like that now. The regions around Sweden compensate their own businesses for the increased VAT cost, but the activities run by alternative forms of operation are left without compensation and without the possibility, as is customary, of collecting VAT from the end customer, in this case the patient. It is strange that most activities have agreements with the region to operate healthcare, which means that they must relate to the region's regulatory framework, tariffs and guidelines. Nevertheless, it distinguishes the possibility of VAT compensation, which I find remarkable. The Tax Agency expects all alternative forms of operation to pay VAT from its own capital. This is an absurd situation. It is not possible to operate on a level playing field if this absurd situation persists.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-172	Mrs. Old President! Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm asks an important question which must of course be dealt with within the framework of the Government Office's preparation of the Riksdag's announcement. This is what the Government Office is now focusing on. However, it is important to recall here that the VAT rules on health care are the same for public and private providers. The specific interpretation made by the Supreme Administrative Court and which has led to a different assessment by the Tax Agency specifically concerns increased VAT costs in cases where hired personnel are engaged in the business. It is therefore important that we isolate the issue to those parts of the healthcare sector that this concerns. Then the question is: What are the systems for dealing with additional costs today, on the one hand for county councils and on the other for the private operators in the county councils' activities? As I said in the interpellation response, we have a compensation system that compensates the county councils for these costs. The arrangement is such that the county councils in turn will include this in the agreements signed with the private performers that exist in the respective county councils. The investigation looked closely at the question of whether the system could be changed and whether there could be direct compensation for the private operators. The investigation concluded that this was not compatible with EU law. What I did not say in the answer but which is worth mentioning here is that the investigation also concluded that the current level of compensation for the county councils – which is thus intended to compensate for the costs that the county councils have due to the private operators' VAT situation – is high. According to the report, it was overcompensation of SEK 1.3 billion that was paid out in 2017. The study concluded that flat-rate compensation should be reduced from 6% to 5%. So we already have today a system that compensates and even overcompensates the county councils for the costs involved in this debate. Then this is probably an issue that must be dealt with by the respective county councils, because the state naturally goes in and follows the model that we have with flat-rate compensation to the county councils. However, in the light of the announcement that Parliament has decided on, the government is of course continuing to work on the question beyond what I described in the answer.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-179	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister. You make me even more puzzled, and I am even more questioning when you say that the county councils are overcompensated. In addition, they should be further compensated for the increase in healthcare VAT when county councils and regions are as dependent on hired staff as they are today. I would also like to ask the Government how it views the legislative proposal submitted to the Government by the health business operators, which would, on the whole, remove the legislative problems highlighted by the Government. The proposal is drawn up by a company called Deloitte, who is an expert in VAT matters, and reviewed by Associate Professor Pernilla Rendahl, who is one of Sweden's most renowned researchers in financial law from an EU perspective at the Gothenburg School of Economics. She believes that EU law in no way prevents the government from implementing the proposal of the healthcare business owners. The question is urgent and cannot wait. It is not a question of reviewing the issue, as it says in the announcement, if necessary, but this amendment of the law is a must if our welfare is to continue to offer care to our citizens. Given that there is a proposal for a legislative amendment in place and that it is reviewed and does not conflict with current EU legislation, I assume that the government will quickly investigate the matter, so that Parliament can have this legislative amendment on its table as soon as possible, so that decisions can be made.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-183	Mrs. Old President! I would like to take this opportunity to thank Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm for her strong commitment to Swedish welfare. We need to have more discussion on how to make it easier for all those who work in welfare, both those who work in county councils and municipalities' own operations and, of course, all employees on the private side of the publicly funded welfare. Of course, tax matters are also very relevant here. There's no doubt about it. This is also why we have the compensation system with flat-rate compensation, among other things, to county councils for the additional costs that private operators and county councils have for VAT. The government has, of course, great respect for the independence of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Swedish Tax Agency in matters of law enforcement. A new practice has now been established, and this affects the application of the Tax Agency. In the light of the new practice, we will of course do what we can to analyse the situation and ensure that we in the state do what we can to create good and equal conditions for welfare. As Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm mentions, there are actors, professional organisations, who have made proposals for changes in tax legislation. It's out of my jurisdiction. What I have focused on and the part of the Ministry of Finance that I work with is specifically about the issue of compensation systems. It is Minister Magdalena Andersson who is responsible for tax law issues. But of course, the Government Office is working extensively on these issues based on the announcement that the Riksdag has decided on.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-187	Mrs. Old President! Yes, it is a bit exciting that the Swedish Tax Agency has chosen to interpret this EU directive based on the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court in a very specific way when our neighbouring country Finland has made a completely different interpretation of the same EU directive. That is why I see it as a great opportunity for legislation to be changed in a very simple way and for the Government to take the matter with it to the Minister for Finance as an urgent and important issue when it comes to pushing our welfare forward. In addition, I must press for the so-called January agreement, which the government has concluded with its support parties and which is highlighted on many occasions. This decision is definitely contrary to the January agreement, which makes it clear that there should be competition neutrality and equal opportunities to operate. I see today a must: that we change this. Last week, Center Leader Annie Lööf was very clear in the media that the government must deal with this issue in order for our Swedish welfare to continue. I hope that the Government will take the matter with it and that the Government will listen to its support parties so that we can continue to drive our welfare in the direction that we all want.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-190	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for this discussion and for the commitment to welfare issues! Of course we will focus on this issue. This is one of the issues relevant to the organisation of welfare right now – there are many more. Of course, we will ensure that we comply with what the parties have agreed in the January Agreement, and that is that we shall have equal conditions for public and private performers in Swedish welfare.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-191	Mrs. Old President! Ulla Andersson has asked the Minister of Finance how she intends to prioritise resources in the state budget to compensate for the demographic changes that are now taking place in the population and for the declining economic climate that affects the local government sector very significantly, not least in Gävleborg. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Swedish economy is well equipped to meet future challenges. The budget deficit has turned into surplus, the employment rate is the highest in over 25 years and the public debt is at the lowest level since the 1970s. There should be full preparedness to deal with a situation in which the economic cycle is reversed, and the agreement on the fiscal framework should be safeguarded. These are two important elements of the January agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. It is unthinkable for the government to jeopardise the funding of welfare. A high level of employment is the basis for common welfare. A job is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and, for foreign born, establishment in Swedish society. Jobs and employment are the priority areas in the January agreement. Last parliamentary term, the government made historic investments in welfare. In addition to the welfare billions, the government agreed to support county councils for better use of resources in health care, for example. During this term of office, the government will continue to safeguard welfare, for example, by working at a steady pace to strengthen general contributions, which is an important part of the January agreement. Examples of other government initiatives, in addition to grants for the pharmaceutical benefit of more than SEK 28 billion in 2019, are the agreement with SKL on investments with billions in strengthening Swedish healthcare. The government will also set up a Welfare Commission to strengthen welfare. Other government efforts to strengthen welfare in specific areas will continue to be needed. A combination of measures is needed to safeguard and strengthen welfare. The state must provide good conditions for the transition work that will be required. K ommunerna and the county councils need to continue their efforts to improve efficiency and to develop their operations according to new conditions, within the framework of the municipal self-government. The municipal economic equalisation system is an important part of creating good conditions for municipalities and county councils. An up-to-date and reinforced cost adjustment that is in line with social development and to a greater extent compensates for sparseness and socio-economics is important to create a level economic environment. Preparation of the proposal is now under way in the Government Office. With strong public finances, Sweden is well equipped to meet the challenges. It is important that existing funds are used effectively. In the coming years there is a need to prioritise strongly in order for more resources to go to welfare. The Government is closely monitoring the development of the local government sector's economy.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-199	Mrs. Old President! I would like to start by thanking the Government for its answer. As usual, I can see that the government representative highlights one of the reforms that the Left Party pushed through in the budget negotiations during the last parliamentary term – the ten welfare billions. It was both important and historically large. I think it is a good thing that the levelling-up between city and country in the municipal levelling-up system is slightly improved. On the other hand, in its reply, the Government omits that the two earmarked billions for elderly care to increase staffing are now removed from the Moderate and Christian Democrats budget, and the government has chosen not to reintroduce them. The Government, like me, knows that the local government sector is facing major economic problems in the future. Demographic change is here, and it is topped with an impending recession. The Government has many beautiful words but does not present a solution to the question I have in my interpellation. Sweden's municipalities and County Councils estimate that 38 billion are needed, in addition to what the government has already planned to contribute in the next few years. And then Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils expect that some forty municipalities and a number of county councils will need to raise the tax. Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils therefore estimate that more municipalities than during the financial crisis will need to raise taxes and that every third county council will go with deficits, as well as over 100 of the country's municipalities. The Institute of Economics estimates that we need 90 billion by 2026. We know that next year will be difficult and that in the coming years it will be even worse. At the same time, as the Government says, the state has very good finances and could prevent savings and closures that are now planned. We have had a surplus target for public finances precisely so that we would face the demographic changes. Yeah, they're here now, but where's the money? The additions that Sweden's municipalities and County Councils and Konjunkturinstitutet think are needed are, of course, to maintain today's staff density in welfare. Until 2026, we need half a million more employees in welfare, of them 110 000 nurses or carers. This is therefore in order to keep the current staff density, and I think most of us would say that the current staff density leaves much to be desired. Take, for example, the country's retirement homes, where sickness rates are almost twice as high as in the rest of the labour market. Or the home care service in Luleå, which now gets a penalty payment because the municipality expects the home care staff in their gaps to fix it according to the legislation mandatory documentation. This should be done in the holes they should have in their schedules – schedules that have neither running nor walking times added. We have a pre-school uprising and a sub-ministerial uprising because of the under-funding of welfare and hence a lack of staffing density. However, the Government seems to be quite unanswered, and this is probably the case when the government instead chooses to lay a quarter of the reform space it considers to be on reduced tax rates for the country's high-income earners. The day after the protests by the Understeer Rebellion against unworthy and unreasonable working conditions around the country, we were able to read headlines such as... Money from high-income earners... and... Gold rain from the country's high-income earners. The nurses want a job that they can do, where the body and the brain hold and where they have the right to a free time so that they can also live, and of course they do so for the sake of the elderly. They feel that they cannot do their work as needed. On the other hand, high - paying men do not have to demonstrate to be listened to. In Sweden of the Social Democrats, women wear themselves out into welfare, while high-paid and well-off men receive large tax cuts. It's a policy that tastes pretty bad.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-208	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Ulla Andersson, not least for the commitment to Swedish welfare and for reducing gaps in our society! Ulla Andersson was directly involved in increasing the resources for the municipal sector during the previous term of office, when the government and government parties together with the Left Party focused on increasing the general and targeted state grants to municipalities and county councils. This created better conditions for municipalities and county councils to maintain the quality of Swedish welfare. I can reassure Ulla Andersson that the government will also give priority to municipalities during this term of office. It is very clear from the January agreement that general state subsidies should increase at a steady pace. We also have a lot of targeted initiatives for different sectors in the municipal sector, as I also mentioned in the answer. Welfare needs more resources. There is no conflict between the government's assessment and the Left Party's assessment. We need more resources in Swedish welfare: in elderly care, in health care, in school. Municipalities and county councils will have more resources. However, this is not the whole answer. We must also have a fairer distribution of resources. Therefore, the government is now working to get in place as quickly as possible a strengthened and updated cost compensation so that the municipalities that have the greatest needs based on their structure will also get a larger share of the cake. We need to have a combination of more resources for the local government sector, which is fully in line with what was laid down in the January agreement, and a fairer distribution in the local government sector, which requires, among other things, an up-to-date and reinforced cost adjustment. We have a dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. Within the framework of the annual dialogue, the Government representatives discuss with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils on the basis of the various assessments that have been made. The Minister for Finance has also confirmed and talked about the great need for more resources for the local government sector in the coming years. Of course, this will be a top priority in our work. We must not forget that increasing resources for the municipal sector and for the well-being of people is a prerequisite for us to be able to get into work. It is therefore also important to focus on those parts of the policy that are about making it easier for people to have their own livelihoods and thus also to pay municipal taxes, which is a prerequisite for the financing of welfare.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-215	Mrs. Old President! I note that the Government plans to contribute approximately 5 billion in general state grants to all 290 municipalities and 20 county councils in the country. At the same time, it is planned to reduce the tax by 6 billion for the most wealthy high-income earners, i.e. men in Danderyd and Djursholm in particular. The wealthy high income earners thus receive more of the Government in addition than the entire Municipality and County Council Sweden receives together in general state grants. It says something about the government's priorities. In addition to this, we can see that the local government sector estimates about 5 per cent in cost increases due to the fact that the Public Employment Service is not functioning and is completely broken down in a neoliberal experiment. The absence of an authority in place, whether physical or functional, also has consequences in an impending recession. The finances of municipalities can sound very boring when you talk like this. But it's about which society we want to live in and how we should keep this society together. I usually practice in home care to be able to take part in, listen to and see how it actually works in practice. Last summer I talked to one of the nurses in Alfta. She really liked her job. But to her they were divided tours of evil. She could leave home at about six o'clock in the morning when her child was still not awake and came home at 11:30 in the evening and had not seen the children all day. She sat there for a few hours in the middle of the day without payment and just waited. That's what it looks like in Welfare Sweden. You have to have that with you, too. There is a sub-ministerial uprising and a pre-school uprising, that is, in the welfare activities that most people consider to be the most important we have. However, working conditions and wages are far too bad, and despite the additions we received in the last parliamentary term, there are major shortcomings. We have a lot of efficiency requirements, as it is called in Kommunsverige, i.e. real savings every year. But now the savings are much greater. In Norrköping they are, I believe, 700 million. In Gävleborg, where I come from, you expect to have to cut about 6 percent of the costs. That's a lot of money, because most of a budget is about staff. In Ljusdal, schools are planned to close. This is what it looks like around the country. There's a crisis going on. But the government's priorities do not look quite like that. I deeply regret that, because it would certainly be necessary. Of course, it is a good thing that there is a small levelling-up of the system that the Government would like to highlight. But 1.7 billion – only Gävleborg's region's budget is 10 billion. Then you understand that 1.7 billion doesn't make a big difference. I think Sorsele was counting on them to get $5 million. They need 130 million. Gävleborg, together with other state grants, would receive 130 million, while you need 600 million. It is quite clear that what the government is planning is not far enough and that the staff out there will have to continue to toil and drag and pay with their health. Underpaid women with poor working conditions appear to be less of a priority than well-off men, and that is sad in itself.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-225	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Ulla Andersson! I can assure Ulla Andersson that the conflict over the financing of welfare and welfare needs is not between Ulla Andersson and the government. For this government, welfare will always be a priority. For this government, increased resources for the local government sector will always be a top priority, as stated in the January agreement. Yes, there are other parts of the January agreement that focus on tax reductions. But that is what it looks like when several parties meet and reach a compromise. There are different values, different priorities and different views on political issues that have been welded together in a compromise, a compromise that is good for our country. I am convinced that we will have to do much more for the local government sector. Yesterday we saw the report on the situation in Filipstad. Philipstad is not a unique example. There are very many sparsely populated municipalities in our country that have been affected by the effects of urbanisation, which has had a shrinking population since the 1970s and which have also had to take a huge responsibility for the reception of refugees. It is therefore important to update the cost compensation. That's not the whole answer. It has never been the message of the government either. That is why we have said that cost compensation must be strengthened and updated in parallel with the increase in general state subsidies. I am proud of the agreement that exists, which states that the general state subsidies should increase – and not just increase but increase at a steady pace. More efforts are needed on welfare and, of course, the conditions for staff in welfare need to be improved. It is an important issue for the quality of welfare. But in the end it is a matter of increasing resources, and of course we will do what we can to ensure that the state contributes. Ulla Andersson is talking about a forthcoming economic crisis. We don't know what's going on in the future. What we know is that the government through order in public finances has created the conditions for the state of Sweden to act if there is an economic crisis. Thanks to public finances, we can also ensure that public activities and well-being receive more resources when the needs arise. Of course, we should be proud of that. But it also means that we must safeguard the framework that made this strength possible.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-232	Mrs. Old President! It is usually the case that the Left Party together with the Social Democrats, among other things, have to clean up after the bourgeoisie when they have ruled. There's usually a deficit in public finances then. In some way, it is always bad luck when the bourgeoisie is in government and the economy is failing. But if you look back at the last parliamentary term, you can see that then it was more important for the government not to raise the tax than to provide the municipalities with resources or equalize inequality. Now it seems more important to reduce the tax, for it is 5 billion in general state subsidies and 6 billion to wealthy in Danderyd and Djursholm. The nurses demonstrate but are unfortunately not being listened to in the way that would be necessary. I believe that power should respect what they bring forward. The funding of welfare is crucial. That is why we have had a surplus target. Now the demographic changes are here. It could therefore also act on the part of the government and provide substantial resources to the local government sector. It's kind of a safe investment, the kind of thing you do when a recession comes. That would prevent redundancies and huge savings. Larger pre-school groups and even more stressed staff in school, care for the elderly and care could be prevented. But that's not what you do. Although the Government is trying to highlight the equalization system as a central and important factor – as it really is – it has not looked at the important side where the big money actually exists, the income equalisation, but it touches a little bit in the margin. Sure, Stockholm screams. They always do. But on the whole, you don't change much. We need a lot of additional resources. Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils say 38 billion in addition to the 15 billion that the government plans to contribute – and then some 40 municipalities and a number of county councils will raise the tax. It doesn't stick together. As I said in my introduction, this is about which society we want to live together. If we are to give people hope for the future, basic welfare activities must be given resources so that they can function reliably. The staffing density today is not what it should be. It needs to increase, but we do not see any plans on the part of the government. I'm sorry about that. We will fight on, because a different policy is needed.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-240	Mrs. Old President! We all need to fight to strengthen Swedish welfare. We all need to help each other. We all need to build partnerships and communities that are about putting welfare first. Ulla Andersson is a very honest debater and has always been so. I would just like to take this opportunity to correct one thing: EUR 5 billion is not the full sum of the efforts and reinforcements that the government will make in the local government sector. It is clear from the January agreement that general state subsidies should increase at a steady pace throughout the term of office, so it is directly wrong to set a tax cut at 5 billion. We are actually talking about increased resources during the term of office of the municipal sector. I can certainly agree with Ulla Andersson's assessment of the future needs of the local government sector in view of demographic developments. Ulla Andersson also knows that, against this very background, it has been incredibly important for this government to maintain the fiscal framework during the last parliamentary term in order for us to be able to invest when the needs grow. Of course, this government will not fail the local government sector. As needs grow in the municipal sector, the state will also act. You can be absolutely sure of that.
i-8PAmBv525vZKnQXF4bk1dV	Mrs. Old President! Jens Holm has asked me a number of questions about Swedega's concession application for a gasification plant and associated natural gas pipelines in Gothenburg, a so-called LNG terminal. The first question is whether it is my assessment that a large-scale use of fossil natural gas is compatible with the Swedish climate targets. Liquid natural gas is a fossil fuel. The Government's goal is for Sweden to have no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere in 2045 and then to achieve negative emissions. This means that further measures to reduce the use of fossil fuels will be needed. Nevertheless, during a transitional period, liquefied natural gas may be a less poor alternative than other fossil fuels if it can eventually be replaced by liquid biogas. Turning to a sustainable society should permeate all policies and is for the government a starting point in all policy areas. Existing and future instruments and market conditions will determine whether liquefied natural gas or biogas is used. The Government has set up a biogas market investigation that will at the end of the year suggest how biogas's competitiveness can be secured through long-term rules of play. The second question raised concerns the government's handling of matters and how the government intends to act on the matter. The Swedish Energy Market Authority submitted its opinion on Swedega's application for a concession to the Government Office in June 2018. The matter is currently being prepared in the Government Office, and it is not appropriate for me to appear in the decision of that process. The third and final question is whether I intend to take action to prevent more public subsidies from being paid to the LNG terminal in Gothenburg. The project, which includes an LNG terminal and connection to the gas core network, is identified as a so-called project of common interest within the European Union. The project was granted support under the EU Connecting Europe Facility in 2017, for which the Government gave its approval. The government has not provided any financial support for the project, nor is it planning to do so.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-249	Mrs. Old President! I would like to thank the Minister for Energy for the answer to my interpellation. This is an important issue because Sweden has high climate targets. We're supposed to have zero emissions by 2045. whether there is broad political consensus; The government also repeats that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. And the region Västra Götaland County, which is concerned here, aims to be fossil independent by 2030. Therefore, I and quite a lot of people with me think it is surprising, to say the least, that it is now planned for the construction of a large terminal to be connected to the fixed Swedish gas network for the introduction of fossil natural gas into Sweden. As the Minister says, the issue is now too crucial for the government. It is therefore the government that will decide whether we in Sweden should remain dependent on fossil gas for 40 years ahead, as it says in the application for the construction of this fossil gas terminal. As the Minister also says, fossil gas can sometimes be a solution during the transition to biogas. However, a prerequisite for this should be that there is a clear strategy for phasing out fossil gas and replacing it with biogas. If you make a big investment – as it says in the application, it is an investment for 40 years – I am afraid that it will be an investment in continued dependence on fossil gas from other countries rather than an investment in climate-friendly biogas. In addition, Madam President, it is shocking to say the least that the S-MP government has pushed this issue at EU level and obtained no less than SEK 20 million in subsidies for the construction of this fossil gas terminal. We had the issue up in the EU Council as late as January 2018, when we in the Left Party reacted very clearly to this. It should be totally contrary to the Government's ambitions, namely the phasing out of environmentally harmful subsidies. This is something that the government is pushing in every conceivable international context. However, as far as ourselves is concerned, the government is working for SEK 20 million in EU subsidies for this fossil gas investment. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister for Energy whether he really believes that this major investment in fossil gas for 40 years is fully compatible with the Swedish climate targets and with the regional goals of fossil independence by 2030. I would also like to ask the Minister for Energy how he views the fact that the government has been working for these 20 million in EU subsidies for this construction. Why should we promote fossil subsidies in Sweden when we want to phase them out internationally?
i-b71e58f5459a988f-256	Mrs. Old President! I note that Jens Holm and I agree on the target of 100% fossil-free. I can also say that we agree that fossil gas can be a bridge over to biogas and can be used on certain special occasions. However, when it comes to how the government will decide the matter that will soon be on the government's table, Jens Holm will have to give in to patience. I will not be able to express this until the government has taken a decision.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-258	Mrs. Old President! I understand that the government has to make a decision on what has come from the Energy Market Inspectorate. But the purpose of us MPs being able to ask written questions and interpellations is that we should be able to demand some form of responsibility from the government and also transparency in the work of the government and ministers. I interpret the Minister's reply to me as being totally uninterested in such a dialogue. I find this deeply regrettable, and I really want this to be recorded in the Minutes. I asked the Minister a number of questions, to which I certainly did not get an answer. For example, how is this consistent with our climate targets of zero emissions by 2045 and the regional target of fossil independence by 2030? I also think that anyone following this debate really has the right to receive a reply from the minister responsible to why the government has procured this SEK 20 million in subsidies for this construction– to a private company's investment in continued fossil gas dependence for 40 years ahead, as stated in the application. The Minister is also talking about biogas, which we in the Left Party are very positive about. But nowhere in the application or in the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate's documentation to the government is there a clear plan for phasing out the fossil or any description of how to use the biogas. I would like to remind you that fossil natural gas is, in practice, methane gas. It is a very potent greenhouse gas, with between 25 and 30 times more powerful climate impact than carbon dioxide. So these are incredibly important issues we have to discuss here this afternoon. The Climate Policy Council presented a review of the Government's climate policy last spring. It stated that all policy areas must work to achieve our climate objectives. I think, Madam President, that this is one of the perhaps clearer examples we have today. On the one hand, we have high climate targets; on the other hand, we have a government that promotes continued fossil subsidies from the European Union and risks locking us up with a single decision in a continued dependence on fossil energy sources for at least 40 years, as it is actually in the background. I therefore believe, Madam President-in-Office, that I deserve a more detailed answer than was given earlier.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-265	Mrs. Old President! It is of course quite right that Jens Holm says: The Riksdag has an audit task and has the opportunity to demand responsibility from the government. However, the Riksdag is not in a position to demand responsibility from the government for decisions that have not been taken. The Parliament is also unable to ask a minister to express a decision that has not been taken. So if Jens Holm wants to review the decision that will be made when the application is submitted, he may surrender until the government has made that decision, whatever it may be. The government has set tough targets. As far as I understand, Jens Holm has no other opinion than that it is good and real goals. In addition, we have been able to meet these targets and reduce CO2 emissions for several years in several important sectors. In other sectors, things have gone a little worse. But the government is determined to live up to the objectives we have set ourselves through concrete policies. We're going to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. I hope that Jens Holm will continue to be involved in that work.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-267	Mr. Old President! An important part of decision-making is that you have a good basis. I imagine that some of the evidence that the government should have to decide whether to say yes to a continued 40-year dependence on fossil energy sources – fracking gas from the United States perhaps – are discussions like this, as new perspectives that the government may have use of may come up. I therefore think that the Government should welcome this debate and, instead of being as brief and as scarce as possible, respond more fully to my questions. We can take a concrete issue in which the government has already acted. In January 2018, we raised the issue of subsidies to the fossil gas terminal in Gothenburg. It was about whether the government would continue to acknowledge that this is part of the trans-European networks, TEN-T. This is a decision at EU level, and there are large subsidies – grants – for various projects. The government said yes to that. It was said that the fossil gas terminal in Gothenburg was a priority project and that construction could receive EU subsidies. At the same time, the government travels around and calls on other countries in all possible international contexts to phase out their fossil subsidies. Why, then, does it not work to phase out fossil subsidies at home? Anders Ygeman should be able to answer that here and now, because that decision has already been made.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-270	Mr. Old President! I note that Jens Holm's main criticism of the government seems to be that the Council of State answers briefly and concisely to the questions of the Member of Parliament. I think there are more important things to discuss in Parliament's Chamber. Of course, I welcome a debate and discussion on climate policy and on how we want the EU to be able to meet the climate goals that the EU has adopted. And Jens Holm knows as well as I do that the government of the European Union is pushing for the European Connecting Europe Fund to be Paris-compatible. It shall contribute to the achievement of the common objectives. But there may be fossil gas needed as a bridge to biogas. I do not want to let the best become the second best enemy, because the goal is for us to have a major reduction in fossil emissions as possible. I look forward to coming back to Parliament and again discuss with Jens Holm when we have made the decision and I am not bound by the government form but can give answers to Jens Holm's other questions as well.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-273	Mr. Old President! Gudrun Brunegård has asked me which school forms are covered by the ongoing study on secular elements in the school system and about my assessment of the School Inspectorate's resources and powers to inspect, warn and/ or deprive principals of the right to conduct educational activities if they do not meet the requirements of the School Act. Gudrun Brunegård has also asked me whether it is in accordance with my view of law that all schools with religious principals should be subjected to collective punishment because of a few who have misbehaved themselves. The Government decided in March 2018 on the Committee Directives Confesional elements in the school system( Dir. 2018:15). The Special Investigator shall, inter alia, analyse what may be considered as a consequence of the ECHR, other international commitments on human rights and the form of government in relation to secular elements in schools, preschools and recreation centres, whether the principal is public or private. The investigator shall also propose definitions of what is meant by "confessional" or "non-confessional" orientations. In addition, the investigator shall review whether, in addition to existing requirements, there is a need to set specific requirements in connection with the examination of individuals as principals of schools, preschools and recreation centres with a confessional focus. Such requirements may, for example, focus more specifically on the conditions for carrying out an activity that conveys and anchors respect for the values that apply to the Swedish school system. The January agreement, the substantive political agreement reached between the Social Democracies, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, states that a stop to establishment will be imposed on independent primary and secondary schools with a confessional focus. The Government therefore decided on 29 May 2019 to extend the commission of the investigation by means of an additional directive ( Dir. 2019:25). The investigator will now also submit the necessary constitutional proposals for the introduction and analysis of the possible consequences of these constitutional changes, including in relation to constitutional law, EU law and Sweden's international commitments as well as for existing independent schools with a confessional focus. The types of schools and activities under investigation are those of the school system for children and young people. Preschools are not covered by the Additional Directives on Stopping Start-up but are, on the other hand, part of the investigation under the original Directives. The investigation is not tasked with investigating secular elements in municipal adult education or in folk high schools. The study is also tasked with identifying how independent preschools, schools and recreation centres comply with the regulations for secular elements. This will give the government a more comprehensive picture of the State's school inspection supervision work in this area. An important starting point is that all education in the school system must comply with all the provisions of the school constitutions. It's not negotiable. Education in the school system must be equal, and the different forms of school must follow what is stated in the school law and the respective curriculum. This has nothing to do with collective punishment. There is therefore an ongoing work that I see as very important in order to get good legislation so that equal quality education is ensured in all schools.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-279	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. My questions stem from the concerns of many pupils and parents, and also, of course, educational providers in independent secular schools, following the investigation that was set up last spring about secular elements in the school system. How will the investigation affect the possibility of giving children and young people education in a school with the values they and their parents want? The Additional Directive of last spring, following the January agreement to introduce a ban on the establishment of independent, secular primary and secondary schools, raised this concern. Let me begin by pointing out that the Christian Democrats consider it of great importance that the school system is equal and of high quality, that it complies with laws and regulations and conveys the values and rights on which Swedish society is founded. Students in the Swedish school must be free to shape their own opinion and future, as the Minister has stated in some article. The school law already gives such an assignment. No school in Sweden is allowed to operate unless it provides objective education according to the School Act. According to the school law, no student can be forced to participate in secular elements, even in an independent school with religious principals. Such elements should only be offered separately from the teaching, for example as morning prayer or in connection with a meal break. Girls and boys are not to be separated. Schools that violate this can be closed, and that has also happened in some case. The existing non-confessional schools generally have a very good reputation among parents, pupils and the general public. They are multicultural and receive students of different creeds. Many Muslim students attend a Christian free school, for example. In many cases, pupils who publicly driven schools have failed in such schools are placed with good results. Generally speaking, independent schools with religious principals often show good results in national tests. From this perspective, it is not surprising that many secular free schools, where both pupils, parents and teachers are fully satisfied with the teaching and where the National Board of Education has no more remarks than against most municipal schools, perceive the investigation as an inappropriate questioning on the part of the government parties. This is particularly true in view of the international conventions that Sweden has endorsed. For example, Article 9 of the ECHR, which reads in the first paragraph, Mr President of the Age, states that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes the freedom to change religion or belief and the freedom to exercise religion or belief, either alone or in association with others, in public or in private, through worship, teaching, customs and rituals. ..................................................... It is quite strong writings that Sweden has supported: This right includes the freedom to practice one's religion or belief through worship, teaching, customs and rituals. That is why it raises such concern when the government parties now seem to want to flinch the current system at the edge, and that is where the fear of being subjected to collective punishment arises. I therefore welcome the clarification that at least preschools are not covered by the planned stoppage.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-287	Mr. Old President! I thank Gudrun Brunegård for the question. I would like to start by apologizing for my weak voice; it is due to a summer cold. I hope that it will not prevent me from answering the questions in a good way. The government's agreement with the Centre Party and the Liberals, which has been concluded by the four parties that are supporting the January agreement, contains a provision that I am very pleased about. It is the provision to which Gudrun Brunegård refers, which means that we are jointly committed to ensuring that there is a stop to the establishment of religious independent primary and secondary schools. The background is, of course, a conviction that exists among several of our parties. In my own party, the Social Democrats, we are very concerned about the development that involves students going to schools where religious education is somewhat confused with what is the role of education and school. I know that this concern is shared by a great many people. For my part, I am absolutely convinced that it is difficult for a child to distinguish between what the teacher says at, for example, a morning collection and what the teacher says in teaching. However, what we now agree on is not a stop to all religious free schools but a stop to new religious free schools. That is a stop we are going to make during our term of office. However, it should not be very worrying for the independent schools for which Gudrun Brunegård is now making itself a spokesperson, because we will not propose a stop to existing schools. Why is this issue so infected? I think one reason is that we in Sweden have for quite a number of years become accustomed to our school being a school where children with different backgrounds meet. Children have different religious views and different parental backgrounds, and they are from different areas. We think it is positive that the school is a place where opinions are broken. I am also, just as I think Gudrun Brunegård is, convinced that it is a very strong advantage that all children may seek their own way in life and develop their own faith or non-belief. I do not want to prevent a single child from developing a religious belief, and I do not want to contribute to one child being overruled or pushed to find his religious conviction. I see this as part of the right of every individual – every child – to find his way in life. The compromise we have reached in the January agreement is a very positive one. It is an excellent regulation we will produce, and I am convinced that it will be able to win the support of Parliament. I am equally convinced that it will gain broad support in society.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-293	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister. I agree with much of what the Minister is saying. It is obvious that all students should have the right to form their own opinion and receive objective education, and so also says the school law. However, what is worrying about this issue is that both the interpellation response and the investigation mention possible consequences for existing independent schools with a confessional focus. So there may be concern that such ones may lose their present opportunities for teaching. I take the view that this is not the case, and it would be very valuable if it were emphasised. I would also like to ask whether the closure of the establishment will mean, for example, that a current approved independent preschool will not be able to expand its activities and, in the next step, start running primary school activities and so on – after proper application processes and after it has shown that it is in a position to do so. Is such a case also covered by a stoppage? Perhaps the most important question, however, is whether the Minister considers that Sweden, without violating EU law and the European Convention, can prevent parents from choosing education for their children. This also applies to children so large that they can choose which school they want to go to on the basis of philosophical and religious beliefs. Can Sweden override the EU Convention on Human Rights? That is probably the crux of this discussion. Then I would like to stress that I know, through the contacts I have, which I touched quickly, that in many of the Christian free schools there are many Muslim students. They have chosen these schools because they feel that there is an understanding of what it means to be a believer. One feels that one is respected in a different way than one might do in a public school. This should move us to reflect on how religious believers are treated in public society at all. Is it that we have a society that discriminates against people of religious opinion, and what conclusions do we draw from it? I do not understand that I have received a full answer on whether the Minister considers that the School Inspectorate today has sufficient resources and powers to carry out, for example, unannounced inspections at schools where girls and boys are suspected of being separated, that teaching is not conducted objectively and so on. I fully agree that it is very important that such things are dealt with and that the School Inspectorate has the tools to do so.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-299	Mr. Old President! I would like to point out, for the sake of clarity, that in my previous speech I was based on the part of the issue of the closure of independent schools. I would really like to emphasise that there may well be changes in the rules of the investigation with regard to matters relating to religious practice in relation to all independent and municipal schools. I believe that these are changes that should be welcomed by all principals and which will lead to greater clarity and clarity. However, I cannot anticipate the investigation and tell you what changes will be proposed, but I look forward with interest and curiosity to what proposals will come. I also assume that the changes proposed – insofar as they are converted into legislation, regulation text or curriculum – will be loyally followed by the principals of Swedish school systems. In Swedish school we are used to the principals doing as it says in the curriculum; it is not negotiable and will not be after this investigation either. Gudrun Brunegård asks a question about the closure in relation to the extension of schools between different school forms. This is exactly the kind of question we will have to come back to when the investigation is complete. I do not want to anticipate the investigation here either, nor do I actually want to anticipate the interesting and fruitful discussions we will have in the framework of the January agreement to ensure that we implement this important part of the agreement. Gudrun Brunegård is also interested in the European Convention. The ECHR has a wording that is very important for this issue, and my position – my absolute ambition – is that Sweden should make use of the free space provided by the ECHR. The ECHR applies and plays a role in how we make decisions here in Sweden, but also with it there is a free space. My legal assessment – I still have a background as a lawyer – is that we have an opportunity in Sweden to take advantage of the freedom that exists. We should also be aware that the European Convention is a dynamic regulation that follows its time and in which the Court's ruling reflects the development of society and the trends that exist in our common Europe. Last but not least, Gudrun Brunegård takes up the evidence she has received about children who feel ill treated in Swedish school because of religious beliefs. I would like to state that there should not be mistreatment of children on the grounds of religious conviction. I see it as very positive that children and young people independently and with freedom develop a religious belief or a belief in not believing. It should be respected in all Swedish schools. I would like to say quite clearly that in the Swedish school, all children should be welcome regardless of religious beliefs and any religious background.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-306	Mr. Old President! I would like to ask two brief questions. Does this investigation endanger the conditions for the tens of thousands of students who are currently attending one of the seventies of a religious free school that has not received any criticism from the School Inspectorate? That's a straight question. The second is that in an interview – I was looking for it but could not find exactly where it was published – the Minister expressed that it is not clear that religious free schools should be run with public funds. I guess it might be about that space that Anna Ekström in her previous post suggested is there. If so, how is this compatible with the European Convention? Is it not a risk of discrimination if school activities are not allowed on equal terms?
i-b71e58f5459a988f-308	Mr. Old President! No wonder Gudrun Brunegård didn't find that article. It is an article that I remember very well from the election campaign in 2018, and I made the statement as a Socialist representative on these issues. We do not usually use the interpellation instrument to answer questions about pure party play, so I must concentrate on saying that what I have explained in the interpellation response is what is on the government table. What is on the government's table are the wordings contained in the January agreement, and they mean that we proceed with the investigation that exists and that look at how we should have it with religious free schools and the regulations there. A stoppage is also being investigated in accordance with the January agreement. Then Gudrun Brunegård asks if I can guarantee that no child will be affected by the changes that the investigation may bring. That is absolutely impossible for me, because the investigation will make proposals, and I hope that those proposals will lead to changes in the curriculum. I want the curriculum to influence teaching and education in Swedish schooling. My ambition and conviction is that together – the Centers, Liberals, the Green Party and the Social Democrats – within the framework of the January Agreement, we will find good and wise ways to ensure that children and students in Sweden receive good education and education. That is my ambition. More than that, I don't think I can answer the precise question that Gudrun Brunegård asked. With that, I must thank you very much for the interpellation!
i-b71e58f5459a988f-312	Mr. Old President! Roger Haddad has asked me whether the government will ensure that all schools in Sweden are quality reviewed over a certain period of time and what measures the government intends to take to ensure that not only urgent matters are prioritised. The task of the School Inspectorate is to contribute through supervision and quality review to ensuring that children and pupils have access to an equivalent education and other activities of good quality in a safe environment. The Authority must be able to carry out its work effectively and in accordance with the objectives of its activities. Exactly how the Swedish School Inspectorate chooses to organise itself and its work must be up to the authority to decide on. During 2018, the Swedish School Inspectorate reached about half of Sweden's school units through its decisions on supervision and quality review and made more decisions during the year than before. During 2018, the Swedish School Inspectorate has also expanded its work with its most sharp interventions, such as såtliga measures for rectification against municipality ala principals, which almost corresponds to withdrawal of approval for independent principals. The substantive agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party states that the possibility for the School Inspectorate to close schools with serious shortcomings, both municipal and independent, will increase. An investigation shall be set up shortly to produce proposals for such a regulation. The School Inspectorate carries out systematic work to develop its activities. Over time, the Agency has gained more experience and identified new ways of making its inspection more effective. In 2018, for example, the Swedish School Inspectorate has introduced a new more situationalized inspection form. Among other things, they mean that regular supervision is more directed towards schools where there is a high risk of serious deficiencies. Furthermore, regular quality reviews are directed at schools where the risk of formal deficiencies is less but where there is a potential to increase quality and provide a broader and more nuanced feedback than is possible in view. The School Inspectorate has also expanded the scope of so-called targeted supervision in order to be able to act quickly on signals of serious deficiencies in the business. I believe that the School Inspectorate's activities play an important role, and it is essential that the Authority is given good conditions for its inspection. I have continued to trust the Authority's priorities. Various efforts are needed to improve quality and thus state presence.
i-U7qnNCz1yd54uaQRodxo4A	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Education, for the answer to the interpellation! The Liberals have paid attention to the issue of the Swedish School Inspectorate, for many years we have been critical of the effects of the municipalisation of Swedish schools carried out by the Social Democrats. It means that the results and quality differ but also the level of ambition of various municipal politicians or, for that matter, free school boards in school activities around the country. Therefore, it becomes very important how equivalence work in the country. The most important actor, we mean, at the state level is precisely the State school inspection that we, the People's Party which later became the Liberals, established in its present form exactly ten years ago. The fact that we are asking these questions is, of course, due to the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office produced a report during the spring criticising parts of the Swedish School Inspectorate's reviews, for example, that it closes certain cases through so-called desk decisions and does not follow up and really ensure that the principal, the municipality, has taken measures regarding insecurity or pupils' right to support in teaching. The Government also responds, of course, to the Swedish National Audit Office's criticisms, which will be discussed by the Riksdag in a few weeks' time, Mr. Age President. What we also note is that it is not only we Liberals who are paying attention to this, but also the School Inspectorate. I am aware that the authorities themselves are allowed to organise and prioritise, but the School Inspectorate says in its documentation to the Government that if, for example, you do not get more resources or a changed assignment in the instruction or in the official dialogue that Directors-General usually have with the Government, this could mean halving the number of school inspections. That's what's at the core, Mr. Old President, of my interpellation. We cannot allow that development. I hear the Government's response that, as part of the substantive agreement, they will be given another mandate. They're closing schools with serious flaws. The actual mission of the Swedish School Inspectorate is thus extended based on what it looks like today. But it requires additional ability and capacity of the School Inspectorate. It is worrying that the government only refers in its response to the fact that the School Inspectorate has the resources they have and that they are given priority as they wish. But as the Government also points out in the answer, the effect of the rescheduling, i.e. the introduction of so-called situational inspection methods, has consequences in the sense that the state presence is de facto reduced in the country's schools. It worries me.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-325	Mr. Old President! Again, I have to apologise for my weak voice and for possibly keeping my answers a little short to save it. Roger Haddad and I agree on the important role of the Swedish School Inspectorate in Swedish education. We also agree that the Swedish School Inspectorate will have the opportunity to develop its inspection activities based on the agency's deep expertise and its now fairly long experience. We would hardly be able to do that from the standpoint of parliament and government. I know from dialogue with the Swedish School Inspectorate that a very solid job has been done. Statistical tools have been used, international research literature has been reviewed and inspection authorities in other countries have been visited. Indeed, their inspection activities have been redeployed in such a way that they have become more effective. I have the greatest confidence in the School Inspectorate's ability to do this. Just as Roger Haddad believes and realizes that the Swedish School Inspectorate has an important role in Swedish school. I also agree with Roger Haddad that it is important that the School Inspectorate has good conditions for its activities. That brings us to the issue of resources. Each authority submits an annual request for funds needed to develop its activities. Each authority also has an ongoing dialogue with the government on how to want the business to be improved, also through changed assignments or changes in wording in regulatory letters and the like. In the end, it is the government that is in charge of these things. At least that applies to the letters of regulation. But there is a constant dialogue. The resources come from the big budget. Should there be a need to strengthen the resources for the School Inspectorate, it is something we will have to come back to. It is also an issue on which Roger Haddad will have a great opportunity to influence through the January agreement. I look forward to continuing with the active participation of the Centre Party and Liberals to pursue the January agreement on this point too.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-331	Mr. Old President! What I did not mention in my first speech was my disappointment at the government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. Although they agreed, the government meeting before the summer unfortunately decided not to take any further action. This means that the government concludes the comment of the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which involves a tough criticism of the Swedish School Inspectorate. When the Swedish School Inspectorate tells the City of Västerås, the Practical Upper Secondary School or adult education XX in a certain municipality that there are shortcomings, they do not come back, as they have previously done, and ensure that the quality is good and that the measures taken are good before you close a case. There's a flaw in the School Inspectorate. It undermines the entire purpose of the State School Inspectorate. Those of us who have been following this important activity for many years, both at the municipal level and from the Riksdag, know that priorities are already being made. We know, for example, that pre-school and adult education are not examined to the same extent as primary and secondary schools. I understand that the School Inspectorate is making that priority. But I worry that there will be too much focus on the emergency response, too much focus on so-called risk schools or schools with obvious problems. In an efficient society and when resources are limited, it is perfectly logical to act. But there are schools that risk not being visited by the School Inspectorate. These are schools that may not have very big problems. However, there is still a need for state control and a follow-up of how the activities actually work for preschool children, how the inclusion work or how the issue of eligibility works or for that part of the teaching for high-performance students. At all stages where the Swedish School Inspectorate has carried out thematic reviews, we see that they usually land in recommendations and proposals for measures. So the question to the government remains, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: how does the Minister for Education view the statement by the Director-General of the Education Committee, the Transparency Council of the School Inspectorate and the budget base that has been sent to the Government? It is moving towards halving the number of national school inspections. I would like a comment on that. Does it cause the Government to be concerned, or does it simply state that this is the case? Or are you going to do something about it? I think that all schools – free schools, secular schools, non-confessional schools and municipal schools – should be on their toes all the time. They should know that our state school inspection has the resources and the ability to knock on when needed and not just when there's fire brigade suppression.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-337	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would like to make it clear that when the government decides on a report from the Swedish National Audit Office, it is precisely the audit report that is being issued. You go through what's in it. When the report is submitted to the Riksdag, it is stated that the Government has now examined the important report from the Swedish National Audit Office. I agree with Roger Haddad that it was an interesting report. It provided very good information and good ideas on how we can jointly develop the School Inspectorate's activities in the future. I also know from my contacts with the Swedish School Inspectorate that the report has already benefited from the agency. The conclusion of a report from the Swedish National Audit Office does not mean, however, that the work of governing the Swedish School Inspectorate is completed, either through regulatory letters, through specific assignments or through the important budget process. I can assure Roger Haddad that the important budgetary process, which is the focus of his very passionate speech, is an issue on which we will work together. And I look forward to our joint work during the term of office to strengthen our agencies' ability to contribute to a good school throughout Sweden with the state's budget as a basis.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-340	Mr. Old President! It is clear that the Government does not want to answer the key question. The state's only national school inspection must be the guarantor or, in any case, one of the most important tools for state school politicians in trying to take the temperature on and assess the equivalence of Swedish school in terms of studies, work peace, quality and knowledge results. How does the government really see that the Swedish School Inspectorate is possibly about to halve its quality reviews? I had at least expected that the Government might lift it up in the forthcoming government dialogue, for example, to ensure that there is a better and high presence in the country. We do not yet have a government headship for Swedish school. We have a community school. We have many independent actors, and although we have shortcomings in municipal activities, unfortunately we also have many rogue actors in the free school sector who should not actually operate. Whether it is extremists or rogue principals, about whom we have been able to read at times, it is important that we have a school inspection that tries to identify them and recall their condition. If the School Inspectorate is now moving towards halving its inspections, I can only say that the presence is decreasing, the quality monitoring is deteriorating and more rogue actors in school activities can slip through, which I and the Liberals do not want to see.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-343	Mr. Old President! I wholeheartedly agree with what Roger Haddad says about the importance of the Swedish school system not looking between its fingers at rogue actors. It is extremely important that we have a school inspection that keeps track of what is happening in schools and that can use the tools that the inspection has to deal with obvious abuses. I also have a great deal of confidence in the Swedish School Inspectorate's ability to arrange suitable and effective ways of inspecting Swedish schools through its governance. I am very pleased with the January agreement where the government, together with the Centers and Liberals, will be able to ensure that the School Inspectorate gets clearer and sharper tools in its important activities. I am, last but not least, pleased to be able, together with the Liberals, to carry out the important activity of budgetary work, which is the very basis of the question posed by Roger Haddad. Roger Haddad asks over and over again how I view the threat that the School Inspectorate would have to cut back on his business. My answer to that question, Roger Haddad, is that I am concerned that the School Inspectorate has good opportunities to carry out its activities. I will use the tools I have within the Government Office to ensure that the governance is good and effective. I will also work with Roger Haddad and the other friends of the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Green Party to ensure that there is a budgetary space to carry out these important tasks as well.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-346	Mr. Old President! Roger Haddad has asked me whether I and the government have continued to trust the Children's and Student Ombudsman and whether I know that there is internal criticism of the Children's and Student Ombudsman within the School Inspectorate. He has also asked if I and the government will change something about the function of the Children's and Student Ombudsman/Solvistningen or if I am satisfied with today's development as well as what I and the government intend to do to get access to the registration culture that prevails in school, for example when and how individuals can report a teacher or a school. The Swedish National Coal Inspection and the Swedish Children's and Student Ombudsman, BEO, monitor compliance with the section of the School Act (2010:800) dealing with measures against insulting treatment, Chapter 6. The School Inspectorate supervises that school principals and their staff carry out their activities in accordance with the rules in force. BEO's role is to investigate abusive treatment directed at children or students. If BEO's investigation shows that a child or pupil has been subjected to abusive treatment and there are conditions to claim damages from the school operator, the BEO represents the child or pupil in court if the child or pupil so agrees. As a minister, I am prevented from deciding how an authority should decide on a matter of how to apply law. I find it worrying that the reports have increased over time. If it is the case that there was a dark number before, where people did not know or dare to report, it is good that the reports are increasing. But I don't want to see a development where teachers get so scared of complaints that they can't do their job well. Teachers should not feel uncertain about where the boundaries go. Clear rules are important. There should be no confusion about teachers' powers. No teacher should feel insecure in his/her work situation or hesitate to take action in accordance with the School Act. In the January agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, we have agreed that we should jointly develop a national plan for security and study. The disciplinary measures are reviewed so that teachers and principals can always act to ensure security and study. Teachers should feel that they have the whole community behind them when they do their work. In line with the School Commission's proposal, the Government will also review the structure of public authorities in the field of education. In this work, it is natural that the respective roles of the Swedish School Inspectorate and BEO are also reviewed in order to create clarity for principals, teachers and students. My ambition is that this review should be carried out in close cooperation with the Centre Party and the Liberals within the framework of the January Agreement. Roger Haddad has asked whether I am aware of the criticism that exists against BEO and whether I have confidence in BEO. I have, of course, taken note of the information which is available in the media and which Roger Haddad, in particular, has highlighted. I have full confidence that BEO and the Swedish School Inspectorate are fulfilling their commitments according to their instructions, but I also look forward to the government review we are going to do.
i-2ngpWZpMGqCcURJQnab2Cn	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer to this interpellation too! The background to the interpellation is that there are still problems with order in Swedish schools. Of course, this is not the situation in all schools, but there are too many schools in too many municipalities that have problems with order. The Swedish School Inspectorate's own surveys show that many students are disturbed by other students in the classroom and in teaching. The answers in the measurements also say that teachers have to spend more and more time teaching time maintaining order and peace of mind in the classroom. Mr. Old President! This is, of course, a theme that we have also raised in the past. This is not the first time I have stood in this Chamber and raised my criticism of the Children's and Student's Representative. From this point of view, this is certainly not about individual or individual cases. That's something we can leave behind. On 30 January, I submitted an interpellation which was answered in plenary by Minister Ekström on 15 February. It was precisely about the problem that teachers who intervene against messy students in the classroom or out in the corridors risk criticism. We brought up a case that showed that you can be reported to both the Teachers' Responsibilities Board as well as the police and the School Inspectorate. It is not surprising; it is the opportunities that exist if you want to question the school's activities and get an external review. We know, however, that in some such cases, the Teachers' Board of Responsibilities has closed the case and the police have closed the investigation, but the Children's and Student Ombudsman, which is a small department of the School Inspectorate, has taken the matter further. We also see in the media high-profile cases where, for example, we move on to the Supreme Court. In a recent case, the District Court and the Court of Appeal have said that while the teacher did take certain measures, the courts have seen no reason to criticise the teacher in question. The Government's response says that it is alarming and that she does not want to see a development in which teachers refrain from intervening or are afraid to intervene against the mess. Liberals believe that this is already a reality today. This is not something that will happen later or something that we may be on our way to, but we are already there, Mr President of the Age. Indeed, the Liberals tried to draw attention to the situation already six months ago. This problem was discussed already in 2017 in the Swedish School Inspectorate's documentation. During the spring, even the teachers' unions have begun to agree with Liberal criticism. Otherwise it was quite lonely, Mr President-in-Office, when, at the end of January and the beginning of February, I drew attention to the issue. But now it is not a day without me being able to read how to refer to my and Liberal criticism of the Children's and Student's Ombudsman. This issue is being seriously discussed at the moment in the Swedish school debate, which I welcome. However, I cannot help commenting on the government's statement in Today's News about a government review, Mr. Age President. There, the night before we have this interpellation debate, I was able to read parts of the answer to my interpellation, which is unusual. Otherwise, we have had the routine of giving the answer to a Member's questions first in the Chamber before it is published. I note that the government gave its opinion on the review of the authorities, which I will of course be coming back to in a moment.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-359	Mr. Old President! The fact that we have problems with order in the Swedish school is an issue that Roger Haddad has highlighted. I am grateful to Roger Haddad for his commitment to this issue. I hope that Roger Haddad does not think I am rude if I point out that there are actually more of us who have been highlighting this issue for quite a long time. I am very concerned that teachers are forced to spend their time on maintaining security and learning, rather than spending time planning and implementing teaching, which should be what teachers are dedicated to. I am concerned that teachers feel a fear of intervening and acting in accordance with the School Act because they are afraid of consequences. I think it is an obvious task for principals and principals to ensure that teachers in their activities have the security and security that they can act in accordance with the School Act when necessary. But it is also important that students and parents somewhere have a function to go and report when irregularities occur in school. A majority of the cases reported to today's child and pupil representatives are about bullying. This can be about sexual abuse, something that was noticed during the big metoo debate a few years ago. We also have the wide-ranging problems of honour. I want to protect the opportunities for students and parents to have an authority to turn to. I look forward with confidence to the review that we will make of how these issues will be dealt with in the future and what the boundaries between the School Inspectorate and the Children's and Student Ombudsman should look like. However, I think that maintaining such a function is very important, and I am convinced that Roger Haddad shares that view. I would also like to emphasise that it is the principal, i.e. the municipality or the independent school, with whom the representative for children and pupils communicates when they have received a report. The representative of children and pupils devotes his or her energies to ensuring that the principals carry out their duties. I am sorry if teachers get in the middle of the important process. I would like to thank Roger Haddad once again for his commitment to this issue. I look forward to good cooperation and hope that the Centers and Liberals will actively participate in the review that I plan to do in accordance with the School Commission's proposal. I am convinced that we will find a good way to go, so that we can ensure that there is an opportunity for students to make their voice heard and to get help and redress, while at the same time we have a situation where teachers feel safe to act even in cases where the principal has been notified to or by the Children's and Student's representative. I apologize once again for my weak voice, Mr. Old President.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-364	Mr. Old President! There is an important difference between, on the one hand, the involvement of the Liberals and, on the other hand, the involvement of the Social Democrats and the government in this matter. When I stood here in February, Mr. Age President, I demanded that this department be dismantled immediately and that the School Inspectorate's official mission be refined and clarified. I demanded to hijack. 5 and 6 of the School Act concerning abusive treatment and teachers' powers would be clarified and amended. What response did the Minister for Education give the Liberals on 15 February 2019, Mr. President of the Age? It is of course easy to go to rikslagen.se and find it. It is clear: the government does not currently consider that any initiatives or measures are needed. It's been six months now. We have continued to highlight our criticism. We have continued to make demands for a change to the school law. This is not least about the development of public authorities that we see between the Children's and Student Ombudsman and the Swedish School Inspectorate. We have addressed the application culture we see and the assessment culture that has developed under the current Children's and Student's representative. That is our main criticism, and that is where we demand that the government act. I welcome again – although I do not like to read parts of my interpellation response in Dagens Nyheter the night before – that the government is opening up for a review of the authority of the Children's and Student's Ombudsman for the first time. It wasn't on the map, Mr. Old President, when I was standing here in February. In this respect, we have certainly influenced the government's assessment, and I think that is a good thing. We will continue to do so. When it comes to complaints about bullying and abusive treatment in general, it is not the case that the cases go directly to the Children's and Student's representative. It is five departments with legal expertise and other competence within the Swedish School Inspectorate that can deal with all cases, including violations, bullying and shortcomings in student support. They are the ones who then assess the cases and channel them to the Children's and Student's Ombudsmen when it comes to clean damages and cases concerning students who feel violated. For that mission, we do not need our own department with our own appointed child and pupil representative. That is our opinion. From the Liberals, we have said today in the comments that we want the government to test confidence in the current Children's and Student's Representative, because the head of this department is, of course, appointed by the government. Our main criticism concerns how the Children's and Student's representative has put the practice and assessment culture that prevails in the department. It can't be that it was only when DN wrote in a big suggestion that 16 lawyers had internally criticized the Children's and Student's Ombudsman that changes in the government's position occurred? I indicated this as early as February. I have been aware of this letter from the beginning. I have even tried to get the letter out as a member of the Authority's Transparency Council, but I have not received it. I think it is a major democratic problem that I, appointed by the government in order to be able to have insight into the authority and advise the Director-General, should not even take part in such a severe criticism. I am grateful that someone – I do not know who – has contacted the public, the media, to make the criticism public. The most important thing for us, Mr President-in-Office, is that this function be reviewed, that the structure of the government be reviewed and that the school law be amended, because teachers need clearer powers.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-371	Mr. Old President! Roger Haddad goes to storm against the registration culture that according to him spreads out in the Swedish school. Roger Haddad blames only the current Children's and Student's representative for the culture of registration. I agree with Roger Haddad that it is unfortunate if there is a culture of registration. I think that children, students and parents should be more involved in school. Should a child or a student learn a lot in school, it wants hard work and strong cooperation between the school and the home. I'm convinced of that. We also know from the large PISA surveys how important it is to have a trustful cooperation between the school and the home. In this context, I would like to point out the unfortunate development we have in the Swedish school, where we have increasingly gained a customer mentality. You threaten not only with complaints but also by taking your child and school money and going to another school. I want to see a school that is a joint educational institution, not a position in the market that parents can choose or opt out of. At the same time with this criticism of a registration culture, I would like to stress that I am very keen that there should be opportunities for parents and students to get involved in schooling. One of those possibilities must be to report and pull the emergency brake when something has gone really wrong. I think we agree, Roger Haddad and I, that the absolute best thing is that the first thing to do is to contact the teacher, the principal or the principal and that the school authorities should not be contacted later on. I would recommend that as a good approach for the parent or student who wants to achieve improvement. But I want there to be an opportunity for parents and students, a function that ensures that you have somewhere to turn when it is really needed. Roger Haddad also very strongly criticises the representative of children and pupils who is currently sitting and who was appointed by the Alliance Government and the Minister for Education who was the representative of my predecessor. I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise that I find it inappropriate to push the messenger. Criticize me so much, Roger Haddad! I'd love to keep up the good work. However, I do not think it is appropriate to criticise officials for applying existing legislation, Mr President-in-Office.
i-b71e58f5459a988f-375	Mr. Old President! It goes without saying that we are calling for the government to act. After all, it is the Minister who can act in the appointment and appointment of child and pupil representatives, not as Vice-Chairman of the Parliament's Education Committee. The Government has the power to actually replace the current child and pupil representatives. Now that I and the Liberals get agreement from the teachers' unions and 16 lawyers in the state's own school inspection in the criticism of the children's and students' representative, it is no wonder that we are demanding that you test your trust in the current children's and pupils' representatives. Nor is it that we are just targeting the head of this department. We have said that we want to see a review of the authorities. We want to change the role of the School Inspectorate. We maintain that it is possible to handle these matters within the regular School Inspectorate. It is remarkable that the Director-General of the School Inspectorate today is unable to act in relation to the Children's and Student Representatives' Department. It is an authority of its own. We have said that the school law, i.e. the political law on abusive treatment and teachers' powers, should be amended. The most important thing, of course, is that the number of notifications has not gone from 389 in 2006 to 1 910 in 2018 – a dramatic increase – but the fear that exists in the country's schools, the uncertainty that exists among the country's teachers and principals when it comes to intervening against messy students. As a wise academic wrote to me in an e-mail the other day in response to this debate: BEO has now come to be perceived as an agent standing on the side of the messy students. But who is the representative of the caring students?
i-b71e58f5459a988f-379	Mr. Old President! I'm on the side of the decent students. But I'm also on the side of the students and parents who need some extra support and want somewhere to turn when things don't work. Like Roger Haddad, I think the school should be a safe place to work. There should be security and studyo. I look forward to the review that we are going to do. I look forward to doing the review in good cooperation with the Center Party, the Liberals and, of course, also the Green Party, which, as you know, is part of the government. I want to lead to a situation in which teachers feel safe, secure, calm and calm to be able to secure safety and study at school. I also want it to lead to teachers spending their valuable and precious time preparing and implementing teaching and being the support for students' learning that the teachers are supposed to be. I also want it to lead to the school at the headmaster and teacher level being able to spend time just on student-related teaching and a little less on documentation and administration. At the same time, I want this review to lead to a function where parents and students can report when, for example, it concerns bullying, sexual abuse, honour problems and the like. I look forward to carrying out this public authority review. If legislative changes are needed, I will not be afraid to implement them. I also look forward to doing it with Roger Haddad.
